THE LIFE

                                                          OF

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,

                                       BART. LL.D.
LATE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, FOREIGN ASSOCIATE

                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE,

                                                         &c. &c. &c.

                                                  BY

  JOHN AYRTON PARIS, M.D. CANTAB. F.R.S. &c.

                 FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS.

                                 IX TWO VOLUMES.
                                     VOL. I.

                          LONDON:

      HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY,

                         NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
                                 M DCCCXXXI.

                     LONDON :
PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEV,

               Dorset-street, Fleet-street.

                                                 3)3 TZ'

                                                            V.I

                                                       TO

                         HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS

 PRINCE AUGUSTUS FREDERICK,

       DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.G. D.C.L.

                                              fyc. fyc. &c.

                PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY;
                    THESE MEMOIRS OF A PHILOSOPHER
                        WHOSE SPLENDID DISCOVERIES

             ILLUMINED THE AGE IN WHICH HE LIVED,
       ADORNED THE COUNTRY WHICH GAVE HIM BIRTH,
    AND OBTAINED FROM FOREIGN AND HOSTILE NATIONS

                   THE HOMAGE OF ADMIRATION AND
                            THE MEED OF GRATITUDE,
                                               ARE,

BY THE GRACIOUS PERMISSION OF HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS,
    DEDICATED WITH SENTIMENTS OF PROFOUND RESPECT,
                                                        BY
                                                                 THE AUTHOR.

                         ^7r5: 1


                PREFACE.

   THE reflecting portion of mankind has ever felt
desirous of becoming acquainted with the origin,
progress, habits, and peculiarities of those whom the
powers of genius may have raised above the plane
of intellectual equality; but neither the nature of
the information, nor the extent of the detail that

may be necessary to satisfy so laudable a curiosity,
can ever be estimated by any common standard,

since it is not in our nature to contemplate an ob-
ject of admiration, but with reference to our own

predilections and sympathies ; and hence every

reader will form a scale for himself, according to
the degree of interest he may feel for the particular
character under review. The Poetical enthusiast,

who could not sufficiently express his gratitude on

being told that Milton wore shoe-buckles, would
very probably not have given 'four farthings,' as
Gray says, to know that the shoes of Davy were

VI PREFACE.

tanned by catechu ; and yet if the relative value of

this information were fairly estimated, it must be ad-
mitted that the former is a matter of barren curio-
sity, the latter, a fact of some practical utility. In a
word, we very naturally connect the man with his

works, and we care not to extend our acquaintance

with the one, but in proportion as we have derived

pleasure from the other.

   In like manner, very different estimates will be
formed of the degree of praise due to a distinguish-

ed philosopher, because the few who are deeply im-
bued with a knowledge of the science he may have

adorned and enlightened must not only appreciate
the value of his labours, but understand the difficul-
ties which opposed the accomplishment of them, be-

fore they can arrive at a sound decision upon the
question : and here again the judgment of the most

scientific may be unfortunately warped ; it may be

corrupted by secret passions or sinister influences ;
be distorted by the prejudices of education and ha-

bit, or unduly biassed by invincible prepossessions.
   No man ever soared, like an eagle, to the pinnacle

of fame, without exciting the envy and perhaps the
hatred of those who could only crawl up half-way ;
while, on the other hand, where no rivalry can
exist, the splendour of such an ascent will captivate
the bystander, and by exciting intemperate triumph
and unqualified admiration, change without dimi-
nishing the sources of erroneous judgment, and sub-
stitute adulation for calumny. Under such circum-
stances, an allusion even to the common frailties of

PREFACE.  Vll

g<evfnri iiu11s becomes offensive ; the biographer is called

upon for the delineation of a perfect man ; but the
world is satisfied with nothing short of * a faultless

monster ;' and yet, while they would impose upon

him the same restraint as Queen Elizabeth laid
upon her artist to execute a portrait without a

single shadow, they little imagine how completely
they obscure the features of their idol, by the haze

of incense in which they continually envelope it.
These are evils against which a future historian will

not have to contend ; for time tries the characters

of men, as the furnace assays the quality of metals,

by disengaging the impurities, dissipating the su-

perficial irridescence, and leaving the sterling gold

bright and pure.
   Nor can the extent of our obligations to a philo-

sopher be appreciated until time shall have shown
the various important purposes to which his disco-
veries may administer. The names of Mayow and
Hales might have been lost in the stream of dis-
covery, had not the results of Priestley and Lavoisier
shown the value and importance of their statical
experiments on the chemical relations of air to other
substances. The discoveries of Dr. Black on the

subject of latent heat could never have obtained
that celebrity they now enjoy, had not Mr. Watt

availed himself of their application for the improve-

ment of the steam-engine ; and the views of Sir H.

Davy respecting the true nature of chlorine become
daily more important from the discovery of new

elements of an analogous nature. In future ages,

Vili PREFACE.

the metals of the alkalies and earths may admit of
applications, and open new avenues of knowledge,
of which at present we can form no idea ; but it is
obvious that, in the page of history, his name will
gather fame in proportion as such discoveries un-
fold themselves.

   It must be admitted, that such considerations

may furnish an argument against the propriety of
writing the life of a contemporaneous philosopher ;

Iand yet will never admit, with Mr. Babbage, that

"the volume of his biography should be sealed,
until the warm feelings of surviving kindred and

admiring friends shall be cold as the grave, from
which remembrance vainly recalls his cherished form,
invested with all the life and energy of recent

existence."

   Is it not possible that the errors of partiality,

which have so frequently been charged upon the
writer on these occasions, may often be ascribed,
with greater truth and justice, to the prejudices of
the reader that, after all, the distortion might not
have existed in the portrait itself, but in the optics
of the observer ? Such an opinion, however, even
were it true, carries along with it no consolation to

Ithe biographer ; for know of no method by which

the picture can be adapted to the focus of every eye.

   If, however, contemporaneous biography has its
difficulties and impediments, so has it also its ad-
vantages. Dr. Johnson has remarked, in his Life
of Addison, that " History may be formed from

permanent monuments and records ; but Lives can

                PREFACE.  ix

only be written from personal knowledge, which is

growing every day less, and in a short time is lost

for ever. The delicate features of the mind, the

nice discriminations of character, and the minute

peculiarities of conduct, are soon obliterated."

  I did not enter upon this arduous and delicate

task, without a distinct conception of the various

difficulties which would necessarily oppose its ac-
Icomplishment.
                well knew that the biographer of

Davy must hold himself prepared for the dissatis-

faction of one party at the commendations he might

bestow, and for the displeasure of the other at the

penury of his praise, or the asperity of his criticism.

  IAfter great labour and much anxiety, have at

length completed the work ; and in giving it to the

Iworld, shall apply to myself the words of Swift
I" have the ambition to wish, at least, that both

parties may think me in the right ; but if that is

not to be hoped for, my next wish should be, that

Iboth might think me in the wrong, which would

understand as an ample justification of myself, and a

Isure ground to believe that have proceeded, at least,

with impartiality, and perhaps even with truth."

   It is certainly due to myself, and perhaps to the

Iworld, to state the circumstances by which was

induced to undertake a work requiring for its com-

pletion a freedom from anxiety, and an extent of

Iresearch, scarcely compatible with the occupations

of a laborious profession ; and which, may add,

has been wholly composed during night, in hours
stolen from sleep. Very shortly after the death of Sir

X PREFACE.

Humphry Davy, an account of his life, written by
no friendly hand, nor ' honest chronicler,' was sub-
mitted for my judgment by a Journalist who had

Iintended to insert it in his paper. At my request,

it was committed to the flames ; but not until had

Ipromised to supply the loss by another memoir.

The sketches by which redeemed this pledge were
published in a weekly journal THE SPECTATOR ;
and they have since been copied into various other
works, sometimes with, but frequently without any

acknowledgment. They constitute the greater part

of the Life which was printed in the Annual Obi-

tuary for 1829 ; and they form the introduction to
an edition of his " Last Days," lately published in
America.

  I was soon recognised as the writer of these

Sketches ; and the leading publishers of the day
urged me to undertake a more extended work. To

I Ithese solicitations returned a direct refusal : even

declined entering upon any conversation on the oc-

casion ; feeling that the wishes of Lady Davy, at
that time on the Continent, ought in the very first
instance to be consulted on the subject. Had not
the common courtesy of society required such a mark
of attention, the wish expressed by Sir Humphry in

his Will would have rendered it an imperative duty.

IOn her arrival in London, in consequence of a letter

she had addressed to Mr. Murray, requested an

Iinterview with her Ladyship, from whom received

not only an unqualified permission to become the
biographer of her illustrious husband, but also the

                     PREFACE.                   XI

several documents which are published with ac-
Iknowledgement in these memoirs.
                                  still felt that

Dr. Davy might desire to accomplish the task of
recording the scientific services of his distinguished

Ibrother ; and, had that been the case, should most

undoubtedly have retired without the least hesita-

Ition or reluctance ; but was assured by those who

were best calculated to form an opinion upon this

point, for he was himself absent from England,

that motives of delicacy which it was easy to appre-

ciate, would at once lead him to decline an under-

taking embarrassed with so many personal consider-

ations. The task, however, of collating the various
works of Sir H. Davy, and of enriching them by

notes derived from his own knowledge of the cir-

Icumstances under which they were written, do

hope will be accomplished by one who is so well

calculated to heighten the interest, and to increase

the value of labours of such infinite importance to

science, and to the best interests of mankind.

The engraving which adorns the volume is from

a painting by Sir Thomas Lawrence, presented to

the Royal Society by Lady Davy ; and I beg the

Council of that learned body to accept my thanks for

the permission they so readily granted for its being

engraved. It is one of the happiest efforts of the
distinguished Artist, and is the only portrait I have

seen in which his features are happily animated with

the expression of the poet, and whose eye is bent

to pursue the flights of his imagination through

unexplored regions.

Xll PREFACE.

  I must also embrace this opportunity of publicly

expressing my thanks to the Managers of the Royal
Institution, who, in the most handsome manner,

immediately complied with my request to inspect
their Journals, and to make such extracts from them,

Ias might consider necessary for the completion of

my memoirs.

  To Mr. Davies Gilbert, I am under obligations

which it is difficult for me to acknowledge in ade-

quate terms, not only for the value of the materials
with which he has furnished me, but for the kind-

ness and urbanity with which they were communi-

cated, and for the ready and powerful assistance
Iwhich
        have so constantly received from him

during the progress of the work.

   To the other enlightened individuals from whom

I Ihave received support, have acknowledged my
Iobligations in the body of the work ; and should

have inadvertently passed over any service without

Ia becoming notice, trust the extent of the labour

and the circumstances under which it has been per-
formed, will plead my apology.

Dover Street, January 1, 1831.

                    CONTENTS.

                    CHAPTER I.

Birth and family of Sir H. Davy. Davy placed at a preparatory

school. His peculiarities when a boy. Anecdotes. He is ad-

mitted into the grammar-school at Penzance. Finishes his educa-

tion under Dr. Cardew at Truro. Death of his father. He is ap-
prenticed by his mother to Mr. John Bingham Borlase, a surgeon

and apothecary. He enters upon the study of Chemistry, and de-

votes more time to Philosophy than to Physic. The influence of

early impressions illustrated. His poetical talent. Specimens of

his versification. An Epic Poem composed by him at the age of

twelve years. His first original experiment in chemistry. He

conceives a new theory of heat and light. His ingenious experi-

ment to demonstrate its truth. He becomes known to Mr. Davies

Gilbert, the founder of his future fortunes. Mr. Gregory Watt

arrives at Penzance, and lodges in the house of Mrs. Davy. The

visit of Dr. Beddoes and Professor Hailstone to Cornwall. The

correspondence between Dr. Beddoes and Mr. Davies Gilbert, rela-

tive to the Pneumatic Institution at Bristol, and the proposed ap-

pointment of Davy.  His final departure from his native town

                                                                    Pagel

                              CHAPTER II.

   Cursory thoughts on the advantages of Biography. Plan and
objects of the Pneumatic Institution. Davy contracts friendships
during his residence at Bristol. His first visit to London. His

XIV CONTENTS.

Letters to Mr. Davies Gilbert. The publication of the West Coun-
try Contributions, by Dr. Beddoes. Davy's Essays on Heat, Light,
and Respiration. His interesting experiments on bonnet canes.
He commences an enquiry into the nature of nitrous oxyd. He
publishes his chemical researches. A critical examination of the
work. Testimony of Tobin, Clayfield, Southey, and others, re-
specting the powers of nitrous oxyd. Davy breathes carburetted
hydrogen gas, and nearly perishes from its effects. His new Gal-
vanic experiments communicated in a Letter to Mr. Gilbert . 56

             CHAPTER III.

Count Rumford negotiates with Mr. Underwood on the subject

of Davy's appointment to the Royal Institution. Terms of his en-

gagement communicated in a letter to Mr. Gilbert. Davy arrives,

and takes possession of his apartments. He receives various mor-

tifications. He is elected a member of the Tepidarian Society.

Is appointed Lecturer instead of assistant. He makes a tour in

Cornwall with Mr. Underwood. Anecdotes. His Poem on Spi-

nosism. His letter to Mr. Gilbert, communicating a galvanic dis-

covery. He commences his first grand course of lectures. His

brilliant success. A letter from Mr. Purkis. Davy's style criti-

cised. His extraordinary method of experimenting. Davy and

Wollaston compared as experimentalists. The style of Davy as a

lecturer and a writer contrasted                                      114

             CHAPTER IV.

Davy makes a tour with Mr. Purkis through Wales. Beautiful

phenomenon observed from the summit of Arran Benllyn. Letter

to Mr. Gilbert. Journal of the Institution. Davy's papers on Eu-

diometry, and other subjects. His first communication to the

Royal Society, on a new galvanic pile. He is proposed as a Fel-

low, and elected into the Society. His paper on astringent vege-

table substances, and on their operation in tanning leather. His

letter to Mr. Poole. He is appointed Chemical Lecturer to the

Board of Agriculture. He forms friendships with the Duke of

Bedford, Mr. Coke, and many other celebrated agriculturists.

Attends the  tosh"eeTph-seheHaorinngey-MatooHno"lkham.  and  Woburn.  Composes
a Prologue                                                                        150

                        CONTEXTS.                       XV

                        CHAPTER V.

    Sir Thomas Bernard allots Davy a piece of ground for Agricul-
tural Experiments. History of the Origin of the Royal Institution.

    Its early labours. Davy's Letters to Mr. Gilbert and to Mr.
Poole. Death of Mr. Gregory Watt. Davy's Passion for Fish-
ing, with Anecdotes. He makes a Tour in Ireland : his Letters on
the subject. His Paper on the Analysis of the Wavellite. His
Memoirs on a new method of analysing Minerals which contain a
fixed Alkali. Reflections on the discovery of Galvanic Electricity

                                                                                                                         188

                                CHAPTER VI.

The History of Galvanism divided into six grand Epochs. Davy

extends the experiment of Nicholson and Carlisle. His Pile of one

metal and two fluids. Dr. Wollaston advocates the doctrine of

oxidation being the primary cause of Voltaic Phenomena. Davy's

modification of that theory. His Bakerian Lecture of 1806. He

discovers the sources of the acid and alkaline matter eliminated

from water by Voltaic action. On the nature of Electrical decom-

position and transfer. -On the relations between the Electrical

energies of bodies, and their Chemical affinities. General deve-

lopement of the Electro-chemical Laws. Illustrations, Applica-

tions, and Conclusions          . . . . 216

                        CHAPTER VII.

The unfair rivalry of Philosophers. Bonaparte the Patron of

Science He liberates Dolomieu. He founds a Prize for the en-

couragement of Electric researches. His letter to the Minister of

the Interior. Proceedings of the Institute. The Prize is conferred

on Davy. The Bakerian Lecture of 1807. The Decomposition of

the Fixed Alkalies Potassium    Sodium.  The Questions to

which the discovery gave rise. Interesting Extracts from the Ma-

nuscript notes of the Laboratory. Potash decomposed by a che-

mical process. Letters to Children, and Pepys. The true nature

of Potash discovered. Whether Ammonia contains oxygen.

Davy's severe Illness. He recovers and resumes his labours. His

Fishing Costume. He decomposes the Earths. Important views

to which the discovery has led        . . 253

Xvi CONTENTS.

CHAPTER VIII.

Davy's Bakerian Lecture of 1808 Results obtained from the

mutual action of Potassium and Ammonia upon each other. His

belief that he had decomposed Nitrogen. He discovers Telluretted

Hydrogen. Whether Sulphur, Phosphorus, and Carbon may not

contain Hydrogen. He decomposes Boracic acid. Boron. His
fallacies with regard to the composition of Muriatic acid. A splen-

did Voltaic battery is constructed at the Institution by subscription.

Davy ascertains the true nature of the Muriatic and Oxy-mu-

riatic Acids. Important chemical analogies to which the discovery

gave origin. Euchlorine. Chlorides. He delivers Lectures before
the Dublin Society. He receives the Honorary Degree of LL.D.

from the Provost and Fellows of Trinity College. He undertakes

to ventilate the House of Lords. The Regent confers upon him

the honour of Knighthood. He delivers his farewell Lecture.

Engages in a Gunpowder manufactory. His marriage  . 307

CHAPTER IX.

Davy's " Elements of Chemical Philosophy" examined.  His

Memoir on some combinations of Phosphorus and Sulphur, &c.

He discovers Hydro-phosphoric gas. Important Illustrations of

the Theory of Definite Proportionals Bodies precipitated from

water are Hydrats. His letter to Sir Joseph Banks on a new

detonating compound. He is injured in the eye by its explosion.

His second letter on the subject. His paper on the Substances

produced in different Chemical processes on Fluor Spar. His

work on Agricultural Chemistry  . . 358

         THE LIFE

                                                   OP

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,

                           BART. &c. &c.

         CHAPTER I.

Birth and family of Sir H. Davy. Davy placed at a preparatory
   school. His peculiarities when a boy. Anecdotes. He is ad-

   mitted into the grammar-school at Penzance. Finishes his edu-

   cation under Dr. Cardew at Truro Death of his father. He is
   apprenticed by his mother to Mr. John Bingham Borlase, a sur-
   geon and apothecary. He enters upon the study of Chemistry,
   and devotes more time to Philosophy than to Physic. The in-
   fluence of early impressions illustrated. His poetical talent.
   Specimens of his versification. An Epic Poem composed by
   him at the age of twelve years. His first original experiment in
   chemistry. He conceives a new theory of heat and light. His
   ingenious experiment to demonstrate its truth. He becomes
   known to Mr. Davies Gilbert, the founder of his future fortunes.

       Mr. Gregory Watt arrives at Penzance, and lodges in the
   house of Mrs. Davy. The visit of Dr. Beddoes and Professor
   Hailstone to Cornwall The correspondence between Dr. Bed-
   does and Mr. Davies Gilbert, relative to the Pneumatic Institu-

   tion at Bristol, and the proposed appointment of Davy. His

    final departure from his native town.

   HUMPHRY DAVY was born at Penzance, in Corn-
wall, on the 17th of December 1778.* His ances-

* 1 have been favoured by the Rev. C. Val. Le Grice, of Trereiffe,

with the following extract from the Parish Register, kept at Ma-

VOL. I.  B

21 THE LIFE OF

tors had long possessed a small estate at Varfell,
in the parish of Ludgvan, in the Mount's Bay, on
which they resided : this appears from tablets in
the church, one of which bears a date as far back as

1635. We are, however, unable to ascend higher

in the pedigree than to his paternal grandfather,
who seems to have been a builder of considerable

repute in the west of Cornwall, and is said to have
planned and erected the mansion of Trelissick, near
Truro, at present the property and residence of
Thomas Daniel, Esq.

   His son, the parent of the illustrious subject of

our history, was sent to London, and apprenticed to
a carver in wood, but, on the death of his father,

who, although originally a younger son, had latterly
become the representative of the family, he found
himself in the possession of a patrimony amply com-

petent for the supply of his limited desires, and
therefore pursued his art rather as an object of
amusement than one of necessity : in the town and

Ineighbourhood of Penzance, however, there remain

many specimens of his skill ; and have myself

seen several chimney-pieces curiously embellished

by his chisel.*

dron : " Humphry Davy, son of Robert Davy, baptized at Pen-

zance, January 22, 1779." The house in which he was bom has

been pulled down and lately rebuilt.
   * Soon after the days of Gibbons, the art of ornamental carving

in wood began to decay, and it may now be considered as nearly

lost. Its decline may be attributed to two causes. In the first

place, to the change of taste in fitting up the interior of our man-

sions ; and in the next, to the introduction of composition for

t"heRobeenrrtichDmaevnyt,"  of picture-frames and   o"thhear sobbjeeecnts  of ornament.
                             says a correspondent,                         considered in

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  3

  I am not able to discover that he was remarkable

for any peculiarity of intellect; he passed through
life without bustle, and quitted it with the usual
regrets of friends and relatives. The habits, how-

ever, generally imputed to him were certainly not
such as would have induced us to anticipate a high
degree of steadiness in the son.

   His wife, whose maiden name was Grace Millett,

was remarkable for the placidity of her temper, and
for the amiable and benevolent tendency of her dis-

position : she had been adopted and brought up,
together with her two sisters, under circumstances
of affecting interest, by Mr. John Tonkin, an emi-

nent surgeon and apothecary in Penzance ; a person
of very considerable natural endowments, and whose

Socratic sayings are, to this day, proverbial with
many of the older inhabitants.

   To withhold a narrative of the circumstances

that led Mr. Tonkin to the adoption of these orphan
children, would be a species of historical fraud and

literary injustice, by which the world would not
only lose one of those bright examples of pure and

disinterested benevolence, which cheer the heart and

ornament our nature, but the medical profession

would be deprived of an additional claim to that

public veneration and regard, to which the kind
sympathy of its professors has so universally en-

titled it.

The parents of these children, having been at-

tacked by a fatal fever, expired within a few hours

this neighbourhood as the LAST OF THE CARVERS, and from his
small size, was generally called The little Carver.

                                               B2

4 THE LIFE OF

of each other : the dying agonies of the surviving
mother were sharpened by her reflecting on the for-
lorn condition in which her children would be left ;
for, although the Milletts were originally aristocratic

and wealthy, the property had undergone so many
subdivisions, as to have left but a very slender pro-

vision for the member of the family to whom she
had united herself.

   The affecting appeal which Mrs. Millett is said to

have addressed to her sympathising friend, and me-
dical attendant, was not made in vain : on her

decease, Mr. Tonkin immediately removed the three

children to his own house, and they continued under
the guardianship of their kind benefactor, until each,
in succession, found a home by marriage.

    The eldest sister, Jane, was married to Henry

Sampson, a respectable watchmaker at Penzance ;
the youngest, Elizabeth, to her cousin, Leonard

Millett of Marazion ; neither of whom had any
family. The second sister, Grace, was married to
Robert Davy, from which union sprang five chil-
dren, two boys and three girls, the eldest being
Humphry, the subject of our memoir, and the
second son, John, now Dr. Davy, a Surgeon to
the Forces, and a gentleman distinguished by several
papers in the Philosophical Transactions.

    Humphry Davy was nursed by his mother, and
passed his infancy with his parents;* but his child-
hood, after they had removed from Penzance to

   * For these materials I acknowledge myself indebted to Dr. Pen-

neck of Penzance, and to Mrs. Millett, Sir H. Davy's sister. The
facts were communicated in letters to Lady Davy, by whom they
were kindly placed at my disposal.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      5

reside on their estate at Varfell, was spent partly
with them and partly with Mr. John Tonkin, who

extended his disinterested kindness from the mother

to all her children, but more especially to Hum-

Iphry, who is said, when a child, to have exhibited
powers of mind superior to his years.  have spared

no pains in collecting materials for the illustration

of the earlier periods of his history ; as, to estimate

the magnitude of an object, we must measure the

base with accuracy, in order to comprehend the ele-

vation of its summit.

He was first placed at a preparatory seminary

kept by a Mr. Bushell, who was so struck with the

progress he made, that he urged his father to

remove him to a superior school.

  It is a fact worthy, perhaps, of being recorded,

that he would at the age of about five years turn

over the pages of a book as rapidly as if he were

merely engaged in counting the number of leaves,

or in hunting after pictures; and yet, on being

Iquestioned, he could generally give a very satisfac-
tory account of the contents.  have been informed

by Lady Davy that the same faculty was retained

by him through life, and that she has often been

astonished, beyond the power of expression, at the

rapidity with which he read a work, and the accu-

racy with which he remembered it. Mr. Children

has also communicated to me an anecdote, which

may be related in illustration of the same quality.

Shortly after Dr. Murray had published his system
of chemistry, Davy accompanied Mr. Children in

an excursion to Tonbridge, and the new work was

placed in the carriage. During the occasional inter-

6 THE LIFE OF

vals in which their conversation was suspended,
Davy was seen turning over the leaves of the book,
but his companion did not believe it possible that
he could have made himself acquainted with any
part of its contents, until at the close of the jour-
ney he surprised him with a critical opinion of its

merits.

   The book that engaged his earliest attention was

"The Pilgrim's Progress," a production well calcu-
lated, from the exuberance of its invention, and the
rich colouring of its fancy, for seizing upon the
ardent imagination of youth. This pleasing work,
it will be remembered, was the early and especial
favourite of Dr. Franklin, who never alluded to it
but with feelings of the most lively delight.

    Shortly afterwards, he commenced reading his-
tory, particularly that of England ; and at the age

of eight years he would, as if impressed with the

powers of oratory, collect together a number of
boys in a circle, and mounting a cart or carriage
that might be standing before the inn near Mr.
Tonkin's house, harangue them on different sub-

jects, and offer such comments as his own ideas

might suggest.

   He was, moreover, at this age, a great lover of

the marvellous, and amused himself and his school-

fellows by composing stories of romance and tales
of chivalry, with all the fluency of an Italian im-
provisatore ; and joyfully would he have issued
forth, armed cap-a-pie, in search of adventures, and
to free the world of dragons and giants.

   In this early fondness for fiction, and in the

habit of exercising his ingenuity in creating imagery

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      7

for the gratification of his fancy, Davy and Sir
Walter Scott greatly resembled each other. The
Author of Waverley, in his general preface to the

of his novels,
this talent.
late edition    has  given        us the following
                     must         refer to a very
Iaccount of     "

Iearly period of my life, were to point out my first
Iachievement as a tale-teller ; but believe most of
Imy old schoolfellows can still bear witness that

had a distinguished character for that talent, at a

time when the applause of my companions was

my recompense for the disgraces and punishments

which the future romance-writer incurred for being

idle himself, and keeping others idle, during hours

that should have been employed on our tasks."

Had not Davy's talents been diverted into other

channels, who can say that we might not have re-
ceived from his inventive pen a series of romantic

tales, as beautifully illustrative of the early history
of his native country as are the Waverley Novels of
that of Scotland ? for Cornwall is by no means defi-

cient in elfin sprites and busy "piskeys ;" the invo-

cation is alone required to summon them from their

dark recesses and mystic abodes.

Davy was also in the frequent habit of writing

verses and ballads ; of making fireworks, and of pre-

paring a particular detonating composition, to which
he gave the name of " Thunder-powder," and which

he would explode on a stone to the great wonder

and delight of his young playfellows.

Another of his favourite amusements may also be

recorded in this place ; for, however trifling in itself
the incident may appear, to the biographer it is full
of interest, as tending to show the early existence

8 THE LIFE OF

of that passion for experiment, which afterwards

rose so nobly in its aims and objects, as the mind ex-

panded with the advancement of his years. It con-

sisted in scooping out the inside of a turnip, placing

a lighted candle in the cavity, and then exhibiting

it as a lamp ; by the aid of which he would melt
fragments of tin, obtained from the metallic blocks
which commonly lie about the streets of a coinage

town, and demand from his companions a certain
number of pins for the privilege of witnessing the

Ioperation.

  At an early age, but am unable to ascertain the

exact period, he was placed at the Grammar-School

in Penzance, under the Rev. J. C. Coryton ; and

whilst his father resided at Varfell, he lived with

Mr. Tonkin, except during the holidays, which he

Ialways spent with his parents,            have

   He was extremely fond of fishing ; and

been lately informed by one of his earliest compa-

Idtnheioanntts,a, r"tt.hcaat"tchwhhgearnveeyv-kmenruyolwleyntouhantigmP,h"eenszgaarynescaemtlyyPeciexocrr,erellswepdhoeninn-

none of us could succeed. The mullet is a very dif-
ficult fish to hook, on account of the diminutive size

of its mouth ; but Davy adopted a plan of his own

contrivance. Observing that they always swam in
shoals, he attached a succession of pilchards to a

string, reaching from the surface to the bottom of

the sea, and while his prey were swimming around

the bait, he would by a sudden movement of the

string entangle several of them on the hooks, and

thus dexterously capture them."

   As soon as he became old enough to carry a gun,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  9

a portion of his leisure hours was passed in the recre-
ation of shooting ; a pursuit which also enabled
him to form a collection of the rare birds which

occasionally frequented the neighbourhood, and
which he is said to have stuffed with more than

ordinary skill.
   When at home, he frequently amused himself with

reading and sketching, and sometimes with carica-
turing any thing which struck his fancy ; on some
occasions he would shut himself up in his room,

arrange the chairs, and lecture to them by the hour

I^together.
       have been informed by one of his schoolfellows,

 a gentleman now highly distinguished for his lite-

 rary attainments, that, in addition to the amusements
already noticed, he was very fond of playing at
 " Tournament," fabricating shields and visors of
 pasteboard, and lances of wood, to which he gave
the appearance of steel by means of black-lead. Thus

 equipped, the juvenile combatants, like Ascanius
 and the Trojan youths of classic recollection, would
 tilt at each other, and perform a variety of warlike

 evolutions.

    By this anecdote we are forcibly reminded of the
 early taste of Sir William Jones, who, when a boy
 at Harrow School, invented a political play, in which
 William Bennet, Bishop of Cloyne, and the cele-
brated Dr. Parr, were his principal associates. They
 divided the fields in the neighbourhood of Harrow,
 according to a map of Greece, into states and king-

 doms ; each fixed upon one as his dominion, and

assumed an ancient name. Some of their school-

 fellows consented to be styled Barbarians, who were

10 THE LIFE OF

to invade their territories and attack their hillocks,

which they denominated fortresses.*

I On one occasion, Davy got up a Pantomime ; and
  have very unexpectedly obtained a fly-leaf, torn
out of a Schrevelius' Lexicon, on which the Dra-

matis Persona, as well as the names of the young

Iactors, were registered, as originally cast. This do-

cument appears so interesting, that have thought
it right to place it on record.
.......Father
.Harlequin
................Columbine            Cunnack.

....Fortuna                          Davy.
           *f. . . . * * * * *
Clown

                                     Hichens.

Cupid                                Veale.
Ben .
                                     Scobell.
..Nurse .
                                     Billy Giddy.

                                     Robyns.

Maccaroni                            Dennis.

  IThe performers, who, believe, with one excep-

tion, are all living, will perhaps find some amuse-
ment in examining how far their future characters

Iwere shadowed forth on this occasion. At all events,

   feel confident that they will receive no small gra-
tification at having their recollections thus carried
back to the joyous scenes of boyhood, connected as

they always are, and must ever be, with the most
delightful associations of our lives.

   From Penzance school he went to Truro, in the

year 1793, and finished his education under the Rev.
Dr. Cardew, a gentleman who is distinguished by

   * Life of Sir William Jones, by Lord Teignmouth.

  f Here, as Mrs. Ratcliffe would say, the Legend is so effaced by

damp and time, as to be wholly illegible.

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               11

the number of eminent scholars with which he has

graced his country.

That he was quick and industrious in his school

exercises, may  be inferred from   an anecdote  related
by his sister,  that " on being   removed to    Truro,

Dr. Cardew found him very deficient in the qualifi-

cations for the Class of his age, but on observing
the quickness of his talents, and his aptitude for

learning, he did not place him in a lower form?

telling him that by industry and attention he trust-

ed he might be entitled      stoaysk,ee"phethdeidp, latocethaesseignnteirde
to him ; which," his sister

satisfaction of his master/'

  It is very natural that an anecdote so gratifying to

the family should have been deeply imprinted on

their memory; but we must not be surprised on

finding that it did not make a similar impression
upon Dr. Cardew. From a letter lately addressed

by that gentleman to Mr. Davies Gilbert, the fol-
lowing is an extract : " With respect to our illus-

I Itrious countryman, Sir H. Davy, fear can claim
Ibut little merit from the share had in his educa-
tion. He was not long with me; and while he

Iremained could not discern the faculties by which
Ihe was afterwards so much distinguished ; disco-
Ivered, indeed, his taste for poetry, which did
Inot omit to encourage." Dr. Cardew adds, " While

engaged in teaching the classics, was anxious to

Idischarge faithfully the duties of my profession to

the best of my ability ; but was certainly fortu-
nate in having so many good materials to work

upon, and thus having only *fungi vice cotis,'
though ' exsors ipse secandi? " To the truth of this

12 THE LIFE OF

latter part of the Doctor's quotation, will his scholars

willingly subscribe ? It may be fairly doubted how
                 was able to descend into the sha-
far Dr. Cardew   Maro, without the " donum fatalis
dowy regions of

virgce"

Mrs. Millett thinks that the deficiency just alluded

to may be attributed to Mr. Coryton, rather than

to the inattention of her brother ; the former hav-

Iing, from his neglect as a master, given very general
dissatisfaction. From what                            can learn, at this

distant  pateraiollde, voefntsth, ethcahtartahceter"  of Mr. Coryton, it
appears
                                                      exsors ipse secandi "

could not have been justly applied to him ; and that,

owing to an unfortunate aptness in the name to a

doggrel verse, poor Davy had frequently to smart

under his tyranny.
                           " Now, Master Davy,

                      INow, Sir, have 'e,

                                No one shall save 'e,

                 Good Master Davy ;"

when the master, suiting the action to the rhythm,
inflicted upon the hand of the unlucky scholar the
verberations of that type and instrument of peda-

goguish authority the flat ruler. Here we have
another example of the seduction of sound, argued
by our great jurist Mr. Bentham,* to have deter-
mined the maxims of that law, which has been

pronounced by its sages the perfection of reason.

   * tl Were the enquiry diligently made," he says, " it would be

found that the Goddess of Harmony has exercised more influence,
however latent, over the dispensations of Themis, than her most di-

ligent historiographers, or even her most passionate panegyrists,
seem to be aware of. Every one knows how, by the ministry of

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          13

From a letter, however, written by Davy a few

years afterwards, respecting the education of a

member of his family, he would appear to have en-
tertained an opinion not very unlike that of John

Locke ; for, although he testifies the highest respect
for Dr. Cardew, he seems to consider the compara-
tive idleness of his earlier school career, by allowing
him to follow the bent of his own mind, to have

favoured the     hdeevsealyosp,em" etnhte  of his peculiar  genius.
                                           way in which     we are
" After all,"

taught Latin and Greek, does not much influence
Ithe important structure of our minds.
                                           consider it
Ifortunate that was left much to myself as a child,
Iand put upon no particular plan of study, and that
Ienjoyed much idleness at Mr. Coryton's school.

perhaps owe to these circumstances the little talents

I Ihave, and their peculiar application : what am
I Ihave made myself say this without vanity, and

in pure simplicity of heart."

   His temper during youth is represented as mild

and amiable. He never suppressed his feelings, but

every action was marked by ingenuousness and can-

dour, qualities which endeared him to his youthful

Iassociates, and gained him the love of all who knew

him. " Nor can find," says his sister, " beloved as

he must have been by my mother, that she showed

him any particular preference ; all her children

appeared to be alike her care, and all alike shared

her affection."

Orpheus, it was she who first collected the sons of men beneath the
shadow of the sceptre : yet in the midst of continual experience,

men seem yet to learn with what successful diligence she laboured
to guide it in its course."

14 THE LIFE OF

   In 1794, Mr. Davy died. We cannot but regret

that he did not live long enough to witness his son's
eminence ; for life, as Johnson says, has few better
things to give than a talented son ; but from his
widow, who has but lately descended to the tomb,
full of years and respectability, this boon was not
withheld, she witnessed his whole career of useful-

ness and honour, and happily closed her eyes before

her maternal fears could have been awakened by
those signs of premature decay, which for some time
had excited in his friends, and in the friends of sci-

ence, an alarm which the recent deplorable event has

too fatally justified.

   In the year following the decease of her husband,

Mrs. Davy, who had again taken up her residence
in Penzance, apprenticed her son,* by the advice of
her long- valued friend, Mr. Tonkin, to Mr. John
Bingham Borlase, at that time a surgeon and apo-
thecary, but who afterwards obtained a diploma, and
became an eminent physician at Penzance. Davy,
however, for the most part, continued to pursue his
own plans of study ; for although his friend Mr.
Tonkin, without doubt, intended him for a general
practitioner in his native town, yet he himself always
looked forward to graduation at Edinburgh, as a
preliminary measure to his practising in the higher
walk of his profession.

   His mind had, for some time, been engrossed with

philosophical pursuits ; but until after he had been
placed with Mr. Borlase, it does not appear that he
indicated any decided turn for chemistry, the study of

    * The original indenture, now in the possession of Mr. R. Ed-
monds, solicitor, of Penzance, is dated February 10th, 1795.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  15

which he then commenced with all the ardour of his

temperament ; and his eldest sister, who acted as his
assistant, well remembers the ravages committed on

her dress by corrosive substances.

  It has been said that his mind was first directed to

chemistry by a desire to discover various mixtures

I Ias pigments : a suggestion to which, confess, am

not disposed to pay much attention ; for although
he might have sought by new combinations to im-
part a novel and vivid richness of colouring to his
drawings, it was the character of his mind to pursue
with ardour every subject of novelty, and to get at

results by his own native powers, rather than by the

Irecorded experience of others.

      must here relate an anecdote, in illustration of

this statement, which has been lately communicated
to me by the Reverend Dr. Batten, the principal of
the East India College at Hayleybury. This gen-
tleman was one of the earliest of Davy's schoolfel-
lows, but as he advanced in age, different views, and

a different plan of education, carried him to a distant
part of the kingdom ; the discipline and duties of a
cloistered school necessarily estranged him from his
native town ; and it was not until after his admission

at Cambridge, and the arrival of the long vacation,
which afforded a temporary oblivion of academic
cares, that Mr. Batten returned to Cornwall, to re-

visit the scenes, and to renew the friendships of his

boyish days. Davy, who was at that period an ap-
prentice to Mr. Borlase, received him with transport
and affection ; but he was no longer the boy that his
friend had left him ; he had become more serious
and contemplative, fond of solitary rambles, and

16 THE LIFE OF

averse to enter into society, or to join the festive par-

ties of the inhabitants. In fact, his mind was now

in the act of being moulded by the spirit of Nature ;

and, without the constraint of study, he was insensi-

bly inhaling knowledge with the wild breezes of his

native hills.

In the course of conversation, Mr. Batten spoke of

his academic studies ; and in alluding to the princi-

ples of Mechanics, to which he had lately paid much

attention, he  theaxtprpeasrstedwhhicihmstreelaf tsmoofre"   particularly
pleased with                                                the Collision

of Bodies." What was his surprise, on finding Davy
as well, if not better acquainted with its several pro-
positions ! It was true that he had never systemati-

cally studied the subject had never perhaps seen

any standard work upon it, but he had instituted

experiments with elastic and inelastic balls, and had

worked out the results by the unassisted energies of

his own mind. It is clear that, had this branch of

science not existed, Davy would have created it.

During this period of his apprenticeship, he twice

a week attended a French school in Penzance, kept

by a M. Dugast, a priest from La Vendee ; and it

was remarked that, although he acquired a know-

ledge of the grammatical construction of the lan-

guage with greater facility than any of the other

scholars, he could not succeed in obtaining the pro-

nunciation ; and, in fact, notwithstanding his exten-

sive intercourse with foreigners, and his residence in

France, he never, even in after life, could pronounce

French with correctness or speak it with fluency.

While with Mr. Borlase, it was his constant cus-

tom to walk in the evening to Marazion, to drink

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                   17

tea with an aunt to whom he was greatly attached.

Upon such occasions, his usual companion was a

hammer, with which he procured specimens from

the rocks on the beach. In short, it would appear

that, at this period, he paid much more attention to

Philosophy than to Physic ; that he thought more

of the bowels of the earth, than of the stomachs of

his patients ; and that, when he should have been

bleeding the sick, he was opening veins in the granite.
Instead of preparing medicines in the surgery, he

was experimenting in Mr. Tonkin's garret, which had
now become the scene of his chemical operations ;

and, upon more than one occasion, it is said that he

produced an explosion, which put the Doctor, and all
                                                                             " This
hi"sisHinegcloawrsrsiigllbibobltletolew!s",uisn"ajWelloapisnatrtodhyet.hree           boy Humphry
                                                                             ever so  idle a dog !"
                                                                             air !"
                                                                                      Such were the

constant exclamations of Mr. Tonkin ; and then, in
                                                                             him as the " Phi-
a jocose strain,  he would   speak of                                        " Sir Humphry,"
losopher," and               call him
                  sometimes
as if prophetic of his future renown.*

His sister has remarked that, as he advanced in life,

he always preferred the society of persons older than

himself; and one of his contemporaries informs me
that he never heard him allude to any subject of

science, although he remembers that while one

of his pockets was filled with fishing-tackle, the

   * Davy appears to have been more fortunate than his prototype
Scheele ; for on one occasion, as the latter was employed m mak-

ing pyrophorus, a fellow apprentice, without his knowledge, put

some fulminating powder into the mixture ; the consequence was

a violent explosion ; the whole family was thrown into confusion,

and the young chemist was severely chastised.

VOL. I.                      C

18 THE LIFE OF

other was as commonly loaded with specimens of
rocks. With those, however, who were superior
to him in years, he delighted to enter into discussion.

At Penzance, there still resides a member of the

Society of Friends, whose ingenuity entitles him to
greater rewards than a provincial town can afford,
with whom Davy, as a boy, was in the constant

habit of discussing questions of practical mechanics.
I" tell thee what, Humphry,"
                              e"xctlhaoimu edartthethQeumakoesrt
upon one of these occasions
Iquibbling hand at a dispute ever met with in my

life."

   For the surgical department of the profession, he

always entertained a decided distaste, although the
following extract from a letter of my correspondent

Mr. Le Grice will show that, for once at least, he

Ihad the merit of mending a broken head. " The first

time ever saw Davy was on the Battery rocks ; we

were alone bathing, and he pointed out to me a good

place for diving ; at the same time he talked about

the tides, and Sir Isaac Newton, in a manner that
Igreatly amazed me.
                     perhaps should not have so

distinctly remembered him, but on the following

Iday, by not exactly marking the spot he had point-

ed out, was nearly killed by diving on a rock,

and he came as Mr. Borlase's assistant to dress the

wound."

  It was his great delight to ramble along the sea-

shore, and often, like the orator of Athens, would

he on such occasions declaim against the howling of

the wind and waves, with a view to overcome a de-

fect in his voice, which, although only slightly per-
ceptible in his maturer age, was in the days of his

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 19

Iboyhood exceedingly discordant.  may be allowed

to observe, that the peculiar intonation he employed

in his public addresses, and which rendered him

obnoxious to the charge of affectation, was to be re-

ferred to a laborious effort to conceal this natural

infirmity. It was also clear that he was deficient in

that quality which is commonly called " a good ear,"

and with which the modulation of the voice is gene-

rally acknowledged to have an obvious connexion.
Those who knew him intimately will readily bear

testimony to this fact. Whenever he was deeply
absorbed in a chemical research, it was his habit to

hum some tune, if such it could be called, for it was

impossible for any one to discover the air he intend-

ed to sing : indeed, Davy's music became a subject
of raillery amongst his friends ; and Mr. Children

informs me, that, during an excursion, they attempt-
ed to teach him the air of ' God save the King,' but

their efforts were unavailing.

  It may be a question how far the following fact,
with which I have just been made acquainted, ad-

mits of explanation upon this principle. On enter-

ing a volunteer infantry corps, commanded by a
Captain Oxnam, Davy could never emerge from the
awkward squad ; no pains could make him keep the
step ; and those who were so unfortunate as to stand
before him in the ranks, ought to have been heroes
invulnerable in the heel. This incapacity, as may
be readily supposed, occasioned him considerable

annoyance, and he engaged a Serjeant to give him

private lessons, but it was all to no purpose. In the

platoon exercise he was not more expert; and he

whose electric battery was destined to triumph over

20 THE LIFE OF

the animosity of nations, could never be taught to

shoulder a musket in his native town.

That Davy, in his youth, possessed courage and

decision, may be inferred from the circumstance of

his having, upon receiving a bite from a dog sup-

posed to be rabid, taken his pocket-knife, and with-

out the least hesitation cut out the part on the spot,

and then retired into the surgery and cauterized the

wound ; an operation which confined him to Mr.

ITonkin's house for three weeks. The gentleman

from whom received an account of this adventure,
the accuracy of which has been since confirmed by

Davy's sister, also told me, that he had frequently

heard him declare his disbelief in the existence of

e; nberugtiehs eoaf dtdheed,mi"nd
Ipain whenever the                     were direct-
                                       very shortly
ed to counteract it

afterwards had an opportunity of witnessing a prac-

tical refutation of this doctrine in his own person ;

for upon being bitten by a conger eel, my young

friend Humphry roared out most lustily."
The anecdote of Davy's excising the bitten part
with so much promptitude and coolness, derives its

interest from the age and inexperience of the ope-
rator. In the course of his practice, every physician
Imust have met with similar cases of stern decision ;

but will venture to say that they have never occur-

red except in instances of persons of acknowledged
courage. Not many days since, a veteran officer, dis-

tinguished for the intrepidity with which he rescued

the person of George the Third from the fury of a
desperate mob, in St. James's Park, informed me

that he had formerly been bitten at Vienna by a

dog afterwards ascertained to have been rabid ; he

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  21

immediately entered a blacksmith's shop, and by
threats compelled the person at the forge to heat an
iron red-hot, and burn his leg to the bone. The
blacksmith, after first stipulating that he should

strap his eccentric customer to the anvil, reluctantly
complied ; and my friend showed me a scar which

sufficiently testified the complete manner in which
the son of Vulcan had performed his engagement :

   But to return from this digression.

  At this time of day, no one can surely believe

with Pope, that a " Ruling Passion " is an innate

and irresistible affection antecedent to reason and

observation : on the contrary, ample experience has
led us to the conclusion, that

                                  "men's judgments are

           A parcel of their fortunes, and things outward

               Do draw the inward quality after them."

   The prevailing bias of great minds may thus be
often traced to some accidental, and apparently tri-
vial, impression in early life ; and the acute biogra-
pher, in the course of his observations, will conti-
nually discover traits of character that are readily
referable to such a source, even as in the magical
colouring of Rembrandt's works, the practised eye
will recognize the chiaro-oscuro of his father's mill,
in which the artist passed his hours of childhood.

   In like manner, that marked aversion to arbitrary

power, which ever distinguished the actions and
writings of Dr. Franklin, has by himself been refer-
red to the sense of injustice early imprinted upon his
mind by the severe and tyrannical conduct of his
elder brother ; while, at the same time, he tells us
that he was indebted for his habit through life, of

22 THE LIFE OF

forming just estimates of the value of things, to his
having, at the age of seven years, " paid too much
for his whistle."

   But circumstances, however disposed and happily

combined, although they may direct, can never cre-

ate genius ; it is possible that Cowley might never
have been enamoured of the Muses, nor Sir Joshua

Reynolds have courted the Graces, but for the casual
circumstances recorded by the biographer ; and Fer-

guson might not have turned his attention to me-

chanical inventions, had not an accident befallen the

roof of his father's cottage ; and even Priestley, the
founder of a new and beautiful department in sci-

ence, might very probably never have been led to
think of pneumatic chemistry, had he not lived in
the vicinity of a great brewery : still, however, such

men could not have shone dimly, if true genius be

correctly defined by Dr. Johnson as " a mind of large

general powers accidentally determined to some par-

ticular direction." * So with Davy; his mind was
as vigorous as it was original, and no less logical
and precise than it was daring and comprehensive ;
nothing was too mighty for its grasp, nothing too
minute for its observation ; like the trunk of the

* M. de Bourrienne, in his " Private Memoirs of Napoleon Buo-

naparte," appears to have justly appreciated the influence of circum-

stances upon the destinies of great men.   heInsasypse,ak"inIgf   of  Buona-
parte at the Military College of Brienne,                        the  monks,

to whom the superintendence of the establishment was confided,

had engaged more able mathematical professors, or if we had had

any excitement to the study of Chemistry, or Natural Philosophy,

I am convinced that Buonaparte would have pursued those sciences

with all the genius and spirit of investigation, which he displayed

in a career more brilliant, it is true, but far less useful to mankind."

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               23

elephant, it could tear up the oak of the forest, or

gently pluck the acorn from its branch.

That circumstances in early life should have di-

rected such energies to a science, which requires for

its advancement all the aids of novel and bold, and

yet patient and accurate research, is one of those

fortunate events which every unprejudiced mind

will view with triumph.

  It is surely not difficult to understand how it hap-

pened that a mind endowed with the genius and

sensibilities of Davy, should have been directed to

the study of Chemistry and Mineralogy, when we

consider the nature and scenery of the country in

which accident had placed him. Many of his friends

and associates must have been connected with min-
ing speculations : " Shafts," " Cross Courses," and
" Lodes," were words familiarised to his ears ; and
his native love of enquiry could not have long suf-

fered them to remain strangers to his understanding.

Nor could he have wandered along the rocky coast,

or have reposed for a moment to contemplate its

wild scenery, without being invited to geological
enquiry by the genius of the place ; for were we to

personify the science, where could we find a more
appropriate spot for her " local habitation ?" " How

often when a boy," said Davy to me, on my showing

Ihim a   of the wild rock  scenery of Botallack
         wandered about    those rocks in search
Mine,
drawing
" have

of new minerals, and, when fatigued, sat down upon

the turf, and exercised my fancy in anticipations of

scientific renown!"

   Such scenery, also, in one who possessed a quick
sensibility to the sublime forms of Nature, was

24 THE LIFE OF

well calculated to kindle that enthusiasm which is

so essential to poetical genius ; and we accordingly

learn, that he became enamoured of the Muses at a

Ivery early age, and evinced his passion by several
poetical productions.  am assured by Dr. Batten

that,  at the  age of twelve years,   he had finished an
epic   poem,   which he entitled the  " Tydidiad," from

its celebrating the adventures of Diomede on his re-

turn from the Trojan war. It is much to be regret-

ted that not even a fragment of this poem should

have been preserved ; but Dr. Batten well remembers

that it was characterised by great freedom of inven-

tion, vigour of description, and wildness of execution.

  At the age of seventeen he became desperately

enamoured of a young French lady, at that time

resident at Penzance, to whom he addressed nume-

rous sonnets ; but these, like the passion that pro-

duced them, have long since been extinct.

a  wSoervkereanl toitflehdisthmein"oAr npnruodaul cAtinotnhsolowgeyre,"  printed in
                                                                          published

in three volumes at Bristol, in 1799 ; two of which

were edited by Southey, and one by James Tobin ;

a work of some curiosity, independent of its merits,

as the first attempt in this country to establish an
"Annual," a species of literary composition which

has lately been made very popular and amusing.

  IThese volumes have now become extremely scarce,

for which, and other reasons, have thought it right

to place Davy's productions on record in these me-

moirs ; for although they are marked by the com-
mon faults of youthful poets, they still bear the
stamp of lofty genius. There is, besides, a vein of

philosophical contemplation running through their

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                       25

composition, which may be considered as indicating
the future character and pursuit of their author ;

an ardent aspiration after fame seems, even at this

early period, to have been felt in all its force, and is

expressed in many striking and beautiful passages.

  IThere is still a higher motive by which am in-

duced to introduce these specimens into my memoir,
that of showing the bias of his genius at this early
period, with a view to compare it with that which
displayed itself in the "last days of the philosopher."

We shall find that the bright and rosy hues of fancy
which gilded the morning of his life, and were sub-

dued or chased a\vay by the more resplendent light
of maturer age, again glowed forth in the evening
of his days, and illumined the setting, as they had the

dawning of his genius.
   His first production bears the date of 1795, and is

entitled

            THE SONS OF GENIUS.

BRIGHT bursting through the awful vei^f night
   The lunar beams upon the Ocean play,

The watery billows shine with trembling light,
   Where the swift breezes skim along the sea.

The glimmering stars in yon ethereal plain
   Grow pale, and fade before the lucid beams,

Save where fair Venus, shining o'er the main
    Conspicuous, still with fainter radiance gleams.

Clear is the azure firmament above,
    Save where the white cloud floats upon the breeze,

All tranquil is the bosom of the grove,

   Save where the Zephyr warbles through the trees.

26 THE LIFE OF

         Now the poor shepherd wandering to his home
              Surveys the darkening scene with fearful eye,

          On every green sees little elfins roam,
            And haggard sprites along the moonbeams fly.

         While Superstition rules the vulgar soul,
             Forbids the energies of man to rise,

           Raised far above her low, her mean controul,
             Aspiring Genius seeks her native skies.

           She loves the silent solitary hours,
             She loves the stillness of the starry night,

          When o'er the brightening view Selene pours
             The soft effulgence of her pensive light.

        Tis then disturbed not by the glare ef day ;

            To mild tranquillity alone resign' d,
          Reason extends her animating sway

             O'er the calm empire of the peaceful mind.

          Before her lucid, all-enlightening ray,
             The pallid spectres of the Night retire,

          She drives the gloomy terrors far away,
             And fills the bosom with celestial fire.

         Inspired by her, the Sons of Genius rise
              Above all earthly thoughts, all vulgar care ;

          Wealth, power, and grandeur they alike despise,
              Enraptured by the good, the great, the fair.

        A thousand varying joys to them belong

             The charms of Nature and her changeful scenes
         Their's is the music of the vernal song,

             And their's the colours of the vernal plains.

          Their's is the purple-tinged evening ray,
             With all the radiance of the morning sky ;

         Their's is the splendour of the risen day,
              Enshrined in glory by the sun's bright eye.

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                  27

For them the Zephyr fans the odorous gale,
    For them the warbling streamlet softly flows,

For them the Dryads shade the verdant vale,
   To them sweet Philomel attunes her woes.

To them no wakeful moonbeam shines in vain
   On the dark bosom of the trackless wood,

Sheds its mild radiance o'er the desert plain,
   Or softly glides along the chrystal flood.

Yet not alone delight the soft and fair,
   Alike the grander scenes of Nature move ;

Yet not alone her beauties claim their care,

    The great, sublime, and terrible, they love.

The Sons of Nature, they alike delight
   In the rough precipice's broken steep,

In the black terrors of the stormy night,
   And in the thunders of the threatening deep.

When the red lightnings through the ether fly,
   And the white foaming billows lash the shores ;

When to the rattling thunders of the sky
   The angry Demon of the waters roars ;

And when, untouch'd by Nature's living fires,
   No native rapture fills the drowsy soul ;

Then former ages, with their tuneful lyres,
   Can bid the fury of the passions fall.

By the blue taper's melancholy light,
   Whilst all around the midnight torrents pour,

And awful glooms beset the face of Night,
    They wear the silent solitary hour.

Ah, then, how sweet to pass the night away
   In silent converse with the Grecian page !

Whilst Homer tunes his ever-living lay,
   Or reason listens to th' Athenian sage ;

218 THE LIFE OF

         To scan the laws of Nature, to explore
             The tranquil reign of mild Philosophy ;

         Or on Newtonian wings sublime to soar
             Through the bright regions of the starry sky.

          Ah ! who can paint what raptures fill the soul
             When Attic Freedom rises to the war,

          Bids the loud thunders of the battle roll,
             And drives the tyrant trembling from her shore !

          From these pursuits the Sons of Genius scan
             The end of their creation ; hence they know

          The fair, sublime, immortal hopes of man,
             From whence alone undying pleasures glow.

          By Science calm'd, over the peaceful soul,
             Bright with eternal Wisdom's lucid ray,

          Peace, meek of eye, extends her soft controul,
             And drives the fury Passions far away.

          Virtue, the daughter of the skies supreme,
               Directs their life, informs their glowing lays

        A steady friend ; her animating beam

               Sheds its soft lustre o'er their latter days.

          When life's warm fountains feel the frost of time ;
             When the cold dews of darkness close their eyes,

           She shows the parting soul, upraised sublime,
             The brighter glories of her kindred skies.

           Thus the pale Moon, whose pure celestial light
             Has chased the gloomy clouds of Heaven away,

           Rests her white cheek, with silver radiance bright,
             On the soft bosom of the Western sea.

          Lost in the glowing wave, her radiance dies ;
             Yet, while she sinks, she points her ling'ring ray

          To the bright azure of the orient skies
              To the fair dawning of the glorious day.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

Like the tumultuous billows of the sea

   Succeed the generations of mankind ;
Some in oblivious silence pass away,

   And leave no vestige of their lives behind.

Others, like those proud waves which beat the shore,

   A loud and momentary murmur raise ;

But soon their transient glories are no more,
   No future ages echo with their praise.

Like yon proud rocks amidst the sea of time,
    Superior, scorning all the billows' rage,

The living Sons of Genius stand sublime,
   Th' immortal children of another age.

For those exist whose pure ethereal minds,
   Imbibing portions of celestial day,

Scorn all terrestrial cares, all mean designs,

   As bright-eyed eagles scorn the lunar ray.

Their's is the glory of a lasting name,                                                                     1795.
   The meed of Genius and her living fires,

Their's is the laurel of eternal fame,
   And their's the sweetness of the Muse's lyres.

                                                                                                        D.

     THE SONG OF PLEASURE.

THE genial influence of the day
Had chased the lingering cold away ;
Borne upon the Zephyr's wing,
Sweetly smiled the radiant Spring :
Her mild re-animating breath
Wakes Nature from her wintry death ;
Attended by the laughing Hours,
She rises clad in flowers,
And lightly as she trips along,
The vernal warblers raise the song.

30 THE LIFE OF

                Rich in a thousand radiant dyes,
                Around her steps the flow'rets rise,
                  The Zephyr sports, the sunbeams sleep
                On the blue bosom of the deep.
                And now, within my throbbing breast

           I feel the influence of the Spring,
           ITo ecstasy tune my string,
          IAnd garlanded with odorous flowers,

                    hasted to the shady grove,

           I hasted to the roseate bowers

                  Where Pleasure dwells with Love.

                There Youth, and Love, and Beauty, bound
                  The glowing rose my harp around ;
                Then to the daughter of Desire,
                To bright-eyed Pleasure gave the lyre :

                         She tuned the string,
            And smiling softer than the rosy sea,
         When the young Morning blushes on her breast,
              She raised the raptured lay,

               I heard her sing,

         The song lull'd every care and every thought to rest.

                Sons of Nature, hither haste,
                The blessings of existence taste ;
                 Listen to my friendly lay,
                And your cares shall fly away,
               Quick as fly the wintry snows
                 When the vernal Zephyr blows.
                Let others, courting war's alarms,
                Seek the bloody field of arms ;
                Let others, with undaunted soul,
               Bid Bellona's thunders roll ;
               From the lightnings of their eye
               Let the trembling squadrons fly ;
                Sons of Nature, you shall prove

             A softer fight, the fight of love.

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            31

While you in soft repose are laid
Underneath the myrtle shade,
Amid the murky glooms of Death,
The sons of battle pant for breath.

Let the philosophic sage,
His silver tresses white with age,
Amid the chilling midnight damp,
Waste the solitary lamp,
To scan the laws of Nature o'er,
The paths of Science to explore ;
Curb'd beneath his harsh controul
The blissful Passions fly the soul.
You, the gentler sons of joy,
Softer studies shall employ !
He to curb the Passions tries,
You shall bid them all arise ;
His wants he wishes to destroy,
You shall all your wants enjoy.
Let the laurel, Virtue's meed,
Crown his age-besilver'd head,
The verdant laurel ever grows
 Amid the sullen Winter's snows :
 Let the rose, the flower of bliss,
 The soft unwrinkled temples kiss ;
 Fann'd by the Zephyr's balmy wing,
 The odorous rose adorns the Spring.

 Let the Patriot die, to raise

 A lasting monument of praise.

 Ah, fool, to tear the glowing rose
 From the mirth-encircled brows,
 That around his dusky tomb
 The ever- verdant bay may bloom !
 Let Ambition's sons alone
  Bow around the tottering throne,
 Fly at Glory's splendid rays,
 And, moth-like, die amidst a blaze ;

THE LIFE OF

You shall bow, and bow alone,

Before delicious Beauty's throne.

Lo ! Theora treads the green,
All breathing grace and harmony she moves,
Fair as the mother of the Loves.
In graceful ringlets floats her golden hair ;
From the bright azure of her eye

Expression's liquid lightnings fly.
Her cheek is fair,

Fair as the lily, when at dawning day,

Tinged with the morning's bright and purple ray,

Yonder scented groves among

She will listen to your song.

In yonder bower where roses bloom,

Where the myrtle breathes perfume,
You shall at your ease recline,
And sip the soul-enlivening wine ;
There the lyre, with melting lay,

 Shall bid the soul dissolve away.
Soft as the Morning sheds her purple light
Through the dark azure of the Night,
So soft the God of slumber sheds
His roseatejlews around your heads.

ISuch the blessings bestow !

Haste, my sons, these blessings know !
Behold the flow'rets of the Spring,

They wanton in the Zephyr's wing,
They drink the matin ether blue,

They sip the fragrant evening dew.
Man is but a short-lived flower,

His bloom but for a changeful hour !

Pass a little time away,
The rosy cheek is turn'd to clay :
No living joys, no transports burn

In the dark sepulchral urn,
No Laurels crown the fleshless brows,

They fade together with the Rose.       D.  1796.

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         33

ODE TO SAINT MICHAEL'S MOUNT, IN CORNWALL.

      THE sober eve with purple bright

      Sheds o'er the hills her tranquil light

         In many a lingering ray ;

      The radiance trembles on the deep,

      Where rises rough thy rugged steep,
         Old Michael, from the sea.

      Around thy base, in azure pride,
      Flows the silver-crested tide,

         In gently^ winding waves ;

      The Zephyr creeps thy cliffs around,
      Thy cliffs, with whispering ivy crown'd,

         And murmurs in thy caves.

      IMajestic steep ! Ah, yet love,

      With many a lingering step, to rove
         Thy ivied rocks among ;

      Thy ivied, wave-beat rocks recall
      The former pleasures of my soul,

          When life was gay and young

      Enthusiasm, Nature's child,

      Here sung to me her wood- songs wild,

         All warm with native fire ;

      I felt her soul-awakening flame,

      It bade my bosom burn for fame,
        It bade me strike the lyre.

VOL.    Soft as the Morning sheds her light
        Through the dark azure of the Night

           Along the tranquil sea ;
        So soft the bright-eyed Fancy shed
        Her rapturing dreams around my head,

           And drove my cares away.

      I. *>

34 THE LIFE OF

                 When the white Moon with glory crown'd,
                 The azure of the sky around,

                    Her silver radiance shed ;
                   When shone the waves with trembling light,
                 And slept the lustre palely bright

                       Upon thy tower-clad head ;

                   Then BEAUTY bade my pleasure flow,
                   Then BKAUTY bade my bosom glow,

                    With mild and gentle fire !
                 Then Mirth, and Cheerfulness, and Love,
                 Around my soul were wont to move,

                    And thrill'd upon my lyre.

                 But when the Demon of the deep
                 Howl'd around thy rocky steep,

                    And bade the tempests rise,
                   Bade the white foaming billows roar,
                 And murmuring dash the rocky shore,

                     And mingle with the skies ;

                 Ah, then my soul was raised on high,
                 And felt the glow of ecstasy,

                     With great emotions fill'd ;
                Thus Joy and Terror reign'd by turns,
                 And now with LOVE the bosom burns,

                     And now by FEAR is chilTd.

                   Thus to the sweetest dreams resign'd,
                 The fairy FANCY ruled my mind,

                     And shone upon my youth ;
                  But now, to awful Reason given,

            I leave her dear ideal heaven

                     To hear the voice of TRUTH.

                   She claims my best, my loftiest song,
                   She leads a brighter maid along

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       35

   DIVINE PHILOSOPHY,
Who bids the mounting soul assume
Immortal Wisdom's eagle plume,

   And penetrating eye,

Above Delusion's dusky maze,
Above deceitful Fancy's ways,

   With roses clad to rise ;
To view a gleam of purest light

Bursting through Nature's misty night,
   The radiance of the skies.

                                        D._ 1796.

                      THE TEMPEST.

THE Tempest has darken'd the face of the skies,
   The winds whistle wildly across the waste plain,

The Fiends of the whirlwind terrific arise,
   And mingle the clouds with the white-foaming main.

All dark is the night, and all gloomy the shore,

   Save when the red lightnings the ether divide,
Then follows the thunder with loud-sounding roar,

   And echoes in concert the billowy tide.

But though now all is murky and shaded with gloom,
   Hope, the soother, soft whispers the tempests shall cease ;

Then Nature again in her beauty shall bloom,
   And enamour'd embrace the fair sweet-smiling Peace ;

For the bright-blushing morning, all rosy with light,
   Shall convey on her wings the Creator of day ;

He shall drive all the tempests and terrors of night,
   And Nature enliven'd, again shall be gay.

Then the warblers of Spring shall attune the soft lay,
   And again the bright flow'ret shall blush in the vale ;

On the breast of the Ocean the Zephyr shall play,
   And the sunbeam shall sleep on the hill and the dale.
                                       D2

36 THE LIFE OF

    If the tempests of Nature so soon sink to rest
      If her once-faded beauties so soon glow again,

       Shall Man be for ever by tempests oppress'd,
         By the tempests of passion, of sorrow, and pain ?

Ah, no ! for his passions and sorrow shall cease
   When the troublesome fever of life shall be o'er ;

In the night of the grave he shall slumber in peace,
   And passion and sorrow shall vex him no more.

And shall not this night and its long dismal gloom,

Like the night of the tempest, again pass away ?

Yes ! the dust of the earth in bright beauty shall bloom,

And rise to the morning of heavenly day !  D._ 1796.

EXTRACT FROM AN UNFINISHED POEM

                 ON MOUNT'S BAY.

MILD blows the Zephyr o'er the Ocean dark,
The Zephyr wafting the grey twilight clouds
Across the waves, to drink the solar rays
And blush with purple.

                                     By the orient gleam
Whitening the foam of the blue wave that breaks
Around his granite feet, but dimly seen,
Majestic Michael rises. He whose brow
Is crown'd with castles, and whose rocky sides
Are clad with dusky ivy : he whose base,
Beat by the storm of ages, stands unmoved
Amidst the wreck of things, the change of time.
That base encircled by the azure waves,
Was once with verdure clad : the tow'ring oaks
There waved their branches green, the sacred oaks
Whose awful shades among, the Druids stray 'd
To cut the hallow'd miseltoe, and hold
High converse with their Gods.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                      37

                                                   On yon rough crag,

 Where the wild Tamarisk whistles to the sea blast,

The Druid's harp was heard, swept by the breeze
To softest music, or to grander tones

Awaken'd by the awful master's hand.
Those tones shall sound no more ! the rushing waves,

Raised from the vast Atlantic, have o'erwhelm'd
The sacred groves. And deep the Druids lie
In the dark mist-clad sea of former time.

Ages had pass'd away, the stony altar
Was white with moss, when on its rugged base
Dire Superstition raised the gothic fane,
And monks and priests existed.

                                                     On the sea

The sunbeams tremble j and the purple light
Illumes the dark Bolerium,* seat of storms.
High are his granite rocks. His frowning brow

Hangs o'er the smiling Ocean. In his caves
Th' Atlantic breezes murmur. In his caves,
Where sleep the haggard Spirits of the storm,
Wild dreary are the schist itie^- rocks around

Encircled by the wave, where to the breeze
The haggard Cormorant shrieks. And far beyond
Are seen the cloud-like Islands, grey in mists.J

Thy awful height, Bolerium, is not loved
By busy Man, and no one wanders there
Save he who follows Nature, he who seeks

Amidst thy crags and storm-beat rocks to find
The marks of changes teaching the great laws
That raised the globe from chaos ; or he whose soul

   * The Land's End in Cornwall.

  t The granite of Cornwall is generally found incumbent on pri-

mitive schistus. This is the case in many of the cliffs at the Land's
End. The upper stratum is composed of granite, the lower with
the surrounding rocks of schistus. D.

    ; The Islands of Scilly.

38 THE LIFE OF

          Is warm with fire poetic, he who feels
           When Nature smiles in beauty, or sublime

           Rises in majesty, he who can stand
           Unawed upon thy summit, clad in tempests,
          And view with raptured mind the roaring deep
           Rise o'er thy foam-clad base, while the black cloud
          Bursts with the fire of Heaven

                                                         He whose heart

          Is warm with love and mercy, he whose eye
           Drops the bright tear when anxious Fancy paints
          Upon his mind the image of the Maid,
          The blue-eyed Maid who died beneath thy surge.
           Where yon dark cliff* o'ershadows the blue main,
           THEOBA died amidst the stormy waves,
          And on its feet the sea-dews wash'd her corpse,
          And the wild breath of storms shook her black locks.
          Young was THKORA ; bluer was her eye
          Than the bright azure of the moonlight night ;
          Fair was her cheek as is the ocean cloud

           Red with the morning ray.
                                                     Amidst the groves,

          And greens, and nodding rocks that overhang
          The grey Killarney, pass'd her morning days
          Bright with the beams of joy.

                                                        To solitude,
           To Nature, and to God, she gave her youth ;
            Hence were her passions tuned to harmony.
           Her azure eye oft glisten'd with the tear
          Of sensibility, and her soft cheek
           Glow'd with the blush of rapture. Hence, she loved
           To wander 'midst the green- wood, silver'd o'er
           By the bright moonbeam. Hence, she loved the rocks
            Crown'd with the nodding ivy, and the lake
           Fair with the purple morning, and the sea

            Expansive mingling with the arched sky.

           A rock near the Land's End, called the * Irish Lady.'

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                               39

   Kindled by Genius, in her bosom glow'd
  The sacred fire of Freedom. Hence, she scorn'd
  The narrow laws of custom that control
 Her feeble sex. Great in her energies,
 She roam'd the fields of Nature, scann'd the laws '

 That move the ruling atoms, changing still,
 Still rising into life. Her eagle eye,
 Piercing the blue immensity of space,
 Held converse with the lucid sons of Heaven,
 The day-stars of creation, or pursued
 The dusky planets rolling round the Sun,
 And drinking in his radiance light and life.
 Such was the Maiden ! Such was she who fled
 Her native shores.

                             Dark in the midnight cloud,
When the wild blast upon its pinions bore
The dying shrieks of Erin's injured sons,*
She 'scaped the murderer's arm.

                                                 The British bark
Bore her across the ocean. From the West
The whirlwind rose, the fire-fraught clouds of Heaven
Were mingled with the wave. The shatter'd bark
Sunk at thy feet, Bolerium, and the white surge
Closed on green Erin's daughter.

     That the Genius who presided over the destinies
of Davy should have torn him from these flowery
regions of Fancy, and condemned him to labour in
the dusky caverns of the mineral kingdom, has fur-
nished a fruitful theme of lamentation to the band
of Poets, and to those who prefer the amusements to
the profits of life, and who cherish the hallucinations

   * The Irish Lady was shipwrecked at the Land's End, about the
time of the massacre of the Irish Protestants by the Catholics, in
the reign of Charles the First.

40 THE LIFE OF

of the imagination rather than the truths of science.
If, however, we regret that Davy's Muse, like Pro-

serpine, should have been thus violently seized, and
carried off to the lower regions, as she was weaving

her native wild flowers into a garland, we may con-
sole ourselves in knowing that, like the daughter of

Ceres, she also obtained the privilege of occasionally
revisiting her native bowers ; for it will appear in
the course of these memoirs, that in the intervals of

more abstruse studies, Davy not unfrequently amus-

ed himself with poetical composition. But, in sober

truth, is it possible that any -reasonable being can

IfAregret the course in which
     great poetic Genius has
                           he has  been impelled ?

                          said, "    Davy had not

been the first Chemist, he would have been the first

IPoet of his age." Upon this question do not feel

myself a competent judge : but where is the modern

Esau who would exchange his Bakerian Lecture for

a poem, though it should equal in design and execu-

tion the PARADISE LOST ?

As far as can be ascertained, one of the first origi-

nal experiments in Chemistry performed by him at

Penzance, was for the purpose of discovering the
quality of the air contained in the bladders of sea-

weed, in order to obtain results in support of a fa-

vourite theory of light ; and to ascertain whether, as

land vegetables are the renovators of the atmosphere
of land-animals, sea-vegetables might not be the pre-
servers of the equilibrium of the atmosphere of the
ocean. From these experiments he concluded, that

the different orders of the marine Cryptogamia were
capable of decomposing water, when assisted by the
attraction of light for oxygen.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  41

   His instruments, however, were of the rudest de-

scription, manufactured by himself out of the motley
materials which chance threw in his way ; the pots
and pans of the kitchen, and even the more sacred
vessels and professional instruments of the surgery,
were without the least hesitation or remorse put in

Irequisition.

   While upon this subject, will relate an anecdote

which was communicated to me by my late vene-

rable friend Mr. Thomas Giddy.* A French vessel

having been wrecked off the Land's End, the surgeon
escaped, and found his way to Penzance ; accident
brought him acquainted with Humphry Davy, who
showed him many civilities, and in return received,

as a present from the surgeon, a case of instruments

which had been saved from the ship. The contents

were eagerly turned out and examined by the young
-chemist, not, however, with any professional view as
to their utility, but in order to ascertain how far they
might be convertible to experimental purposes. The

old-fashioned and clumsy glyster apparatus was
viewed with exultation, and seized in triumph !

What reverses may not be suddenly effected by a

simple accident ! so says the moralist. Reader, be-
hold an illustration : in the brief space of an hour,
did this long-neglected and unobtrusive machine,

emerging from its obscurity and insignificance, figure

away in all the pomp and glory of a complicated
piece of pneumatic apparatus : nor did its fortunes

   * I cannot allude to this name, without paying a tribute of re-
spect to the memory of one who, for more than half a century,
practised the profession of a surgeon in Penzance with as much

credit to himself, as advantage to his neighbourhood.

 42 THE LIFE OF

 end here ; it was destined for greater things ; and we
 shall hereafter learn that it actually performed the
 duties of an air-pump, in an original experiment on
 the nature and sources of heat. The most humble

 means may certainly accomplish the highest ends :
 the filament of a spider's web has been used to mea-

 sure the motions of the stars ; and a kite, made with
 two cross sticks and a silk handkerchief, enabled the
 chemical Prometheus to rob the thunder-cloud of its
 lightnings ; but that a worn-out instrument, such as
has been just described, should have furnished him
 who was born to revolutionize the science of the age,
with the only means of enquiry at that time within
his reach, affords, it must be admitted, a very whim-
sical illustration of our maxim.

    Nor can we pass over these circumstances, without
observing how materially they must have influenced
the subsequent success of Davy as an experimen-
talist. Had he, at the commencement of his career,
been furnished with all those appliances which he
enjoyed at a later period, it is more than probable
that he might never have acquired that wonderful
tact of manipulation, that ability of suggesting ex-
pedients, and of contriving apparatus so as to meet
and surmount the difficulties which must ever beset
the philosopher in the unbeaten tracks of Science.
In this art, he certainly stands unrivalled, and, like
his prototype Scheele,* or that pioneer of pneumatic

    * Bergman, Professor of Upsal, was informed of a young man
who resided in the house of an apothecary, and who was reproach-
ed for neglecting the duties of his profession, while he devoted the

whole of his time to Chemistry. Bergman's curiosity was excited ;
he paid him- a visit, and was astonished at the knowledge he dis-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  43

experimentalists, Dr. Priestley,* he was unquestion-
ably indebted for his address to the circumstances
above related. There never, perhaps, was a more
striking exemplification of the adage, that "necessity

is the parent of invention."

   It would however appear that, imperfect as must

have been his apparatus, and limited as were his re-
sources, his ambition very early led him to the in-

vestigation of the most abstruse and recondite phe-
nomena. He was not more than seventeen when

he formed a strong opinion adverse to the general
belief in the existence of caloric, or the materiality

Iof heat.

   As shall hereafter have occasion to draw a paral-
lel between the intellectual qualities of Davy, and
those of the celebrated Dr. Black, the father of mo-

dern chemistry, it may not be irrelevant to state, in
this place, that the subject of heat was also amongst
the first that attracted the attention of this latter

philosopher ; indeed, he tells us himself, that he

played, and at the profound researches in which he was engaged,
notwithstanding the poverty under which he laboured, and the
restraint under which his situation placed him. He encouraged
his ardour, and made him his friend. This young man was the

celebrated Scheelc.

   * No man ever entered upon an undertaking with less apparent
means of success, than did Priestley upon that of Chemistry. He
neither possessed apparatus, nor the money to procure it. These
circumstances, which at first sight seem so adverse, were in reality
those which contributed to his ultimate success. The branch of

Chemistry he selected was new ; an apparatus had to be invented
before any important step could be taken ; and as simplicity is
essential in every research, he was likely to contrive the best whose
circumstances obliged him to attend to economy.

44 THE LIFE OF

"can scarcely remember the time, when he had
not some idea of the disagreement of facts with

the commonly received doctrines upon this subject."

The tendency of his mind, however, was in direct
opposition to that of Davy's, for he insisted upon
the materiality of heat, and was the first to conceive
the bold idea of its being capable, like any other
substance, of entering into chemical combination
with various bodies, and of thus losing its charac-

teristic qualities.

    Black's theory could not be more opposed to that

of Davy than was his conduct upon the occasion ;
for, although an experiment suggested itself to his
mind, by which, as he thought, he could at once
establish the truth of his favourite doctrine, he de-

layed performing because there did not happen
to be an ice-house in the town in which he lived.

With Davy, on the other hand, the conception and
execution of an experiment were nearly simulta-

neous no sooner, therefore, had he formed his

opinion, than his eager spirit urged him to put to
the test.

   Having procured piece of clock-work, so con-
trived as to be set to work in an exhausted receiver,
he added two horizontal plates of brass the upper
one, carrying small metallic cup to be filled with
ice, revolved in contact with the lower one. The
whole machine, resting on plate of ice, was covered
by glass receiver, and the air was exhausted by the
very syringe, ingeniously modified for the purpose,
with which the reader has already been made ac-

quainted for, as yet, he had no air-pump, and, what

   still more worthy of notice, had never even seen
is
      a

                :
                         :

                          a

                              it,

                                         a
                                                   a

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                   it

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  45

   e! The machine was now set in motion, when

the ice in the small cup was soon observed to

melt ; whence he inferred that this effect could alone

proceed from vibratory motion, since the whole ap-

paratus was insulated from all accession of material

heat, by the frozen mass below, and by the vacuum

around it.

    The experiment was afterwards repeated with
greater care, and by means of a more refined appa-
ratus : it was modified in different ways ; and the
results were ultimately published in an Essay, to
be hereafter noticed, " On Heat, Light, and the
Combinations of Light," which appeared in a pro-
vincial collection of tracts, edited by Dr. Beddoes,

at Bristol.
   Mr. Davies Gilbert, in describing the above ex-

periment in his late address to the Royal Society,
very justly observed that it does not at all decide
the important matter in dispute, with respect to an
ethereal or transcendental fluid ; but that few young
men remote from the society of persons conversant
with science, will present themselves, who are capa-
ble of devising any thing so ingenious.

   Dr. Henry, in a paper published in the " Memoirs
of the Manchester Society," on entering into a re-
view of this and similar experiments, very truly
states, that the mode of insulation is not only im-
perfect, but that, according to Count Rumford, ca-
loric will even pass through a Torricellian vacuum.

   The most prominent circumstance in the history
of this period of Davy's life, is his introduction
to Mr. Davies Giddy, now Mr. Gilbert, the late

distinguished and popular President of the Royal

46 THE LIFE OF

Society. The manner in which this happened is as
curious as its result was important ; and it furnishes

another very striking illustration of the power of
simple accident in directing our destinies. Mr. Gil-

bert's attention was attracted to the future philoso-

pher, as he was carelessly swinging over the hatch,
or half gate, of Mr. Borlase's house, by the humor-

ous contortions into which he threw his features.

Davy, it may be remarked, when a boy, possessed a

countenance which, even in its natural state, was

very far from comely, while his round shoulders,

inharmonious voice, and insignificant manner, were

calculated to produce any thing rather than a fa-

vourable impression : in riper years, he was what
might be called " good-looking," although, as a wit
                        his aspect was certainly of the
of the day  observed,    The change which his person
" Bucolic"  character.

underwent, after his promotion to the Royal Insti-

tution, was so rapid, that, in the days of Herodotus,

it would have been attributed to nothing less than

the miraculous interposition of the Priestesses of

Helen. A person, who happened to be walking

with Mr. Gilbert upon the occasion alluded to, ob-

served that the extraordinary -looking boy in ques-

tion was young Davy, the Carver's son, who, he
added, was said to be fond of making chemical
experiments. " Chemical experiments !" exclaimed
Mr. Gilbert, with much surprise : " if that be the
Icase,
        must have some conversation with him."

Mr. Gilbert, as we all know, possesses a strong per-
ception of character, and he therefore soon disco-
vered ample evidence of the boy's singular genius.

After several interviews, which confirmed him in

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  47

the opinion he had formed, he offered young Hum-
phry the use of his library, or any other assistance
that he might require for the pursuit of his studies ;
and at the same time gave him an invitation to his
house at Tredrea, of which he frequently availed

himself.

   During one of his visits, Mr. Gilbert accompanied
him to Hayle Copper-House, and introduced him to
Dr. Edwards, a gentleman afterwards known to the

medical profession as the chemical lecturer in the
school of St. Bartholomew's Hospital ; at the time,

however, alluded to, he resided at Copper-House

with his father, and possessed a well-appointed labo-

ratory. The tumultuous delight which Davy ex-
pressed on seeing, for the first time, a quantity of
chemical apparatus, hitherto only known to him
through the medium of engravings, is described by
Mr. Gilbert as surpassing all description. The air-

pump more especially fixed his attention, and he
worked its piston, exhausted the receiver, and
opened its valves, with the simplicity and joy of
a child engaged in the examination of a new and

favourite toy.

   It is a curious circumstance, that the phenomena

resulting from the contact of iron and copper, in
the investigation of which Davy was destined to

perform so prominent a part, were very early no-

ticed by Mr. Edwards in this place ; who found
that the flood-gates in the Port of Hayle decayed
with a rapidity wholly inexplicable, but upon the
supposition of some chemical action between the

metals which had not yet been clearly explained.
 How little did Mr. Edwards imagine that the fact,

48 THE LIFE OF

which had so powerfully excited his curiosity, would
become to the youth before him, a future source of

rich and honourable discovery !

   During the following year, an event occurred
which contributed, in no small degree, to the ad-
vancement of Davy's prospects. Mr. Gregory Watt,
who had long been in a declining state of health,
was recommended by his physicians to reside for
some time in the West of England, and he accord-
ingly proceeded at once to Penzance, and took up
his abode, as a lodger and boarder, in the house of

Mrs. Davy. It may be supposed that two kindred

spirits would not be long in contracting an acquaint-
ance with each other ; in fact, an intimacy of the
warmest nature did ultimately grow up between
them, and continue to the very moment of Mr.
Watt's premature dissolution : the origin and pro-
gress of their friendship, however, are too curious to
be passed over without some notice.

   Mr. Gregory Watt possessed a warm and affec-

tionate heart; but there was a solemn, aristocratic

coldness in his manner, which repulsed every ap-
proach to familiarity. Davy, it has been already
stated, did not at that time possess any of those
qualifications, in person or manner, which are calcu-

lated to produce favourable prepossessions. It may,

therefore, be readily imagined how Mr. Watt must
have felt, on finding the son of his landlady fami-
liarly addressing him on subjects of metaphysics and
poetry. By one of those strange perversions which

have so frequently led great men to conceal the
peculiarity of their talents, and to rest their claims

to notice and respect upon qualifications which they

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  49

possessed only in an inferior degree, Davy sought
to ingratiate himself with Mr. Watt by metaphysi-

cal discussions ; but, instead of the admiration, he

excited the disgust of his hearer. It was by mere

accident that an allusion was first made to chemis-

try, when Davy flippantly observed, that he would

undertake to demolish the French theory in half an
hour. He had touched the chord : the interest of
Mr. Watt was excited, he conversed with Davy

upon his chemical pursuits, he was at once asto-

nished and delighted at his sagacity, the barrier of

ice was removed, and they became attached friends.

  IMr. Wedgwood, and his brother Thomas, also

spent a winter at Penzance ; and have reason to

believe that their friendship was of substantial be-

Inefit to Davy.

   Before attend the progress of our philosopher
to the next scene of life, or proceed to detail the

Icircumstances connected with his departure from
Penzance,  must relate the following anecdote.

Until the formation of the Geological Society

of London occasioned the introduction of more ex-

tended and sounder views into the science, geolo-

gists were divided into two great rival sects, into

Neptunists and Plutonists : the one affirming that

the globe was exclusively indebted for its present
form and arrangement to the agency of water ; the

other, admitting to a certain extent the operation
of water, but maintaining the utter impossibility of
explaining the consolidation of the strata without

the intervention of fire. Every geologist felt bound
to side with the one or the other of these contend-

ing parties, for neutrality was held as disgraceful as

VOL. I.    E

50 THE LIFE OF

Ithough the law of Solon had been in active opera-
tion.  shall not easily forget the din and fury of

Ithis elemental war, as it raged in Edinburgh when
  was a student in that University ; even the mine-
ral dealers, who, like the artisans of a neutral city,

sold arms and ammunition to both sides, still de-

fended their own opinions with party fury. It was

amusing to observe the triumph and dismay which,

by turns, animated and depressed each side, as the
discovery of a new fact, or a fresh specimen, appear-

ed to give a preponderance to the doctrine of fire or
water. The fact of so large a portion of the strata

being found in the state of a carbonate was ad-

vanced by the Neptunists as an unanswerable argu-

ment against igneous agency : the dismay therefore
which this sect received upon the discovery of Sir

James Hall, that under the combined forces of heat

and compression, carbonate of lime might be fused,

was only equalled by the excessive joy excited in

the contending party. We may form some notion

of the high importance attached to this discovery,

when we learn that its author applied to the

Government for a flag of truce to convey illustra-

tive specimens to the Continental philosophers.

  It so happened, that the Professors of Oxford

and Cambridge ranged themselves under opposite

banners : Dr. Beddoes was a violent and uncompro-

mising Plutonist, while Professor Hailstone was

as decided a Neptunist. The rocks of Cornwall,

and their granitic veins, had been appealed to, as

affording evidence upon the subject ; and the two

Professors, who, although adverse in opinion, were

united in friendship, determined to proceed together

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  51

to the field of dispute, each hoping that he might
thus convince the other of his error, and cure him

of his heresy. The belligerents arrived at Pen-
zance, and in company with their mutual friend,
Mr. Davies Gilbert, examined the coast, and pro-
cured specimens with pretty much the same spirit
of selection as a schoolboy consults his Gradus, not
for an epithet of any meaning, but for one which

best suits his measure ; and having made drawings,

disputed obvious appearances, rendered that which

was clear to the senses, confused to the understand-

ing, and what was already confused, ten times more

obscure, they returned, the opinion of each, as might

easily have been anticipated, having been strength-

ened by the ordeal : the one protesting that the
very aspect of the shivered slate was sufficient to

prove that the globe must have been roasted to
rags; the other, with equal plausibility, declaring

that there was not a tittle of evidence to show that

the watery solvent had ever even simmered. Such,
in fact, must ever be the case, when philosophers
examine the same subject under such different im-

pressions, and in such opposite points of view ; like
the two knights who could not agree respecting the
colour of the shield, only because each saw a differ-
ent side of it.

   Rocks, it is said, have flinty hearts, and certain
it is that, upon this occasion, Cornwall did not
afford that assistance against the Neptunists, which
the Oxford Professor had sought with so much zeal

and confidence ; but if deferred revenge had, as we

are told is generally the case, been put out at com-
pound interest, and Beddoes had exacted its dues

                                        E2

52 THE LIFE OF

with more than judaical rigour, it must be allowed
that Cornwall, by placing Davy at his disposal,
would have fully cancelled all demands.

                   Plutonian Beddoes, erst, in spiteful ire,
                 To see a Hailstone mock his central fire,

              A mighty spirit raised, by whose device

                 We now burn HAILSTONES, and set fire to ICE.

   Before quitting this subject, it is but justice to
advert to the progress which Geology has made
since the turbulence of this contest has subsided ;
it has grown strong in facts, and is daily increasing

its stores. It has been wisely said by one of the

ancient Poets, that in vehement disputes, not only
the persons engaged, but every one who is at all
interested, must suffer; not only the combatants,
but the spectators of the combat, for it is difficult
to apprehend truth while it is the subject of angry

contest.

   To return to the narrative. Upon Beddoes esta-
blishing the " Pneumatic Institution" at Bristol, he
required an assistant who might superintend the
necessary experiments in the laboratory ; and Mr.
Gilbert proposed Davy as a person fully competent
to fill the situation. The young candidate had al-

ready produced a very favourable impression upon

Dr. Beddoes, by his experiments upon Heat and
Light, which he had some time before transmitted
to him through the hands of his friend Mr. Gregory
Watt. This fact may be collected from a note
appended by Dr. Beddoes to Davy's paper subse-
quently published in the first volume of the West
Country Contributions, in which the Doctor says,

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            53

" My first knowledge of Mr. Davy arose from a

letter written in April 1798, containing an account

of his researches on Heat and Light." The rest is

told in the letters which passed on this occasion

Ibetween Dr. Beddoes and Mr. Gilbert, and from

which shall make such extracts as may -be neces-

sary to complete the history of a transaction of

much interest and importance.
In a letter dated July 4, 1798, Dr. Beddoes says,
I am glad that Mr. Davy has impressed you as he
Ihas me.
          have long wished to write to you about
I Ihim, for think can open a more fruitful field of

investigation than any body else. Is it not also his

most direct road to fortune ? Should he not bring

out a favourable result, he may still exhibit talents

for investigation, and entitle himself to public con-

fidence more effectually than by any other mode.

He must be maintained, but the fund will not fur-

nish a salary from which a man can lay up any

Ithing. He must also devote his time for two or
three years to the investigation.    wish you would

converse with him upon the subject. No doubt
Ihe has received my two last letters.
                                       am sorry
I cannot at this moment specify a yearly sum, nor
Ican say with certainty whether all the subscribers
Iwill accede to my plan ; most of them will, doubt
Inot. have written to the principal ones, and will

lose no time in sounding them all."
   In a second letter of the 18th of July, we find the

Ifollowing observations. " have received a letter
Ifrom Mr. Davy since wrote to you. He has

oftener than once mentioned a genteel maintenance,

as a preliminary to his being employed to super-

54 THE LIFE OF

Iintend the Pneumatic Hospital.  fear the funds

Iwill not allow an ample salary ; he must, however,
be maintained.  can attach no idea to the epithet

Igenteel, but perhaps all difficulties would vanish in

conversation ; at least, think your conversing with
Mr. Davy will be a more likely way of smoothing

difficulties, than our correspondence. It appears to

me, that this appointment will bear to be considered

as a part of Mr. Davy's medical education, and that

it will be a great saving of expense to him. It may

also be the foundation of a lucrative reputation ;

and certainly nothing on my part shall be want-

ing to secure to him the credit he may deserve.
He does not undertake to discover cures for this

or that disease ; he may acquire just applause by
Ibringing out clear, though negative results. Dur-

ing my journeys into the country, have picked

up a variety of important and curious facts from

different practitioners. This has suggested to me

the idea of collecting and publishing such facts as

this part of the country will, from time to time,
If Iafford.
                could procure chemical experiments,
Ithat bore any relation to organised nature, would
Ifinsert them.
                Mr. Davy does not dislike this
Imethod of publishing his experiments,
                                        would

Igladly place them at the head of my first volume,

but wish not that he should make any sacrifice
of judgment or inclination."

  It remains only to be stated, that Mr. Gilbert

kindly undertook the negotiation, and completed
it to the satisfaction of all the principal parties.

Mrs. Davy yielded to her son's wishes, and Mr.

Borlase very generously surrendered his indenture,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  55

 with an endorsement to the following effect, that
he freely gave up the indenture, on account of the
singularly promising talents which Mr. Davy had

displayed.

    His old and valued friend Mr. Tonkin, however,

not only expressed his disapprobation of this scheme,
but was so vexed and irritated at having his favour-
ite plan of fixing Davy in his native town as a

Surgeon, thus thwarted, that he actually altered his

will, and revoked the legacy of his house which he
had previously bequeathed him. Mr. Tonkin died
on the 24th of December 1801 ; so that, although
he lived long enough to witness Davy's appoint-
ment to the Royal Institution, he could never have

anticipated the elevation to which his genius and

talents ultimately raised him.
   On the 2nd of October in the year 1798, Davy

quitted Penzance, before he had attained his twen-
tieth year. Mr. Gilbert well remembers meeting
him upon his journey to Bristol, and breakfasting
with him at Okehampton, on the 4th of October.
He was in the highest spirits, and in that frame
of mind in which a man of ardent imagination iden-
tifies every successful occurrence with his own for-
tunes ; his exhilaration, therefore, was not a little

heightened by the arrival of the mail-coach from
London, covered with laurels and ribbons, and

bringing the news, so cheering to every English

heart, of NELSON'S glorious victory of the NILE.

56 THE LIFE OF

CHAPTER II.

Cursory thoughts on the advantages of Biography. Plan and ob-
   jects of the Pneumatic Institution. Davy contracts friendships
   during his residence at Bristol. His first visit to London. His
   Letters to Mr. Davies Gilbert. The publication of the West
   Country Contributions, by Dr. Beddoes. Davy's Essays on
   Heat, Light, and Respiration. His interesting experiments on
   bonnet canes. He commences an enquiry into the nature of
   nitrous oxyd. He publishes his chemical researches. A critical
   examination of the work. Testimony of Tobin, Clayfield, Sou-
   they, and others, respecting the powers of nitrous oxyd. Davy

   breathes carburetted hydrogen gas, and nearly perishes from its

   effects. His new Galvanic experiments communicated in a
   Letter to Mr. Gilbert.

HAVING concluded the early history of the sub-

ject of these memoirs, and conducted it to that me-

morable day on which he left his native town, and

Ibursting from obscurity, prepared to enter upon a

wider field of usefulness and honour, shall accom-

pany him in his progress ; and with the honest

desire of affording instruction as well as amuse-

Iment, for history is useful only as it holds up
the mirror of Truth,  shall continue to point

out the various circumstances that may have con-

tributed to his success and scientific renown ; and

to offer such occasional reflections as may be likely

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  57

to illustrate not only the superficial peculiarities
which constitute the light and shade of character,
but those deeper varieties of mind, upon which the
superiority of intellect may be supposed to depend.

   After all, the great end of biography is not to be
found, as some would seem to imagine, in a series of
dates, or in a collection of gossiping anecdotes and
table-talk, which, instead of lighting up and vivi-
fying the features, hang as a cloud of dust upon
the portrait ; but it is to be found in an analysis
of human genius, and in the developement of those
elements of the mind, to whose varied combina-

tions, and nicely adjusted proportions, the mental

habits, and intellectual peculiarities of distinguished

men may be readily referred.

   It has been stated that an arrangement had been

concluded between Dr. Beddoes and Davy : it is
but an act of justice to say, that it was of a liberal
and honourable description ; and let me also add in

this place, that no sooner had Davy found himself
in a situation which secured for him the neces-

saries of life, than he renounced all claims upon his
paternal property, in favour of his mother and

sisters.

   By acceding to the proposal of Dr. Beddoes, he
never intended to abandon the profession in which

he had embarked ; on the contrary, he persevered

in his determination to study and graduate at Edin-

burgh, and his patron promised that every oppor-
tunity should be afforded him at Bristol for seeing
medical practice : this part of the arrangement,
however, was voluntarily abandoned by him, for

he soon became so absorbed by the labours of the

58 THE LIFE OF

laboratory, as to leave little leisure for the clinical
studies of the hospital.

   The Pneumatic Institution was established for
the purpose of investigating the medical powers of
factitious airs or gases ; and to Davy was assigned
the office of superintending the various experiments.

  It is now generally acknowledged, that the Art

of Physic has not derived any direct advantage
from the application of a class of agents which, un-
doubtedly, held forth the fairest promise of benefit ;
but it is too frequently the case, that in physic,
theory and experience are in open hostilities with
each other. The gases are now never employed in
the treatment of disease, except by a few crafty or
ignorant empirics, whose business it is to enrich
themselves by playing on the credulity of man-
kind : indeed, we may say of popular remedies in
general what M. de Lagrange has so wittily said
of popular prejudices, that they are the cast-off
clothes of philosophers, in which the rabble dress

themselves.

   The investigation, however, into the nature and
composition of the gases paved the way to some
new and important discoveries in science ; so that,

to borrow a Baconian metaphor, although our phi-
losophers failed in obtaining the treasure for which

they so eagerly dug, they at least, by turning up
and pulverizing the soil, rendered it fertile. The
ingenuity of the chemist will for ever remain on
record ; the phantoms of the physicians have va-
nished into air.

   Davy was now constantly engaged in the prose-
cution of new experiments, in the conception of

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  59

which, as he himself informs us, he was greatly
aided by the conversation and advice of Dr. Bed-

does. He was also occasionally assisted by Mr.
William Clayfield, a gentleman ardently attached

to chemical pursuits, and whose name is not un-
known in the annals of science ; indeed, it appears

that to him he was indebted for the invention of

a mercurial air- holder, by which he was enabled to

collect and measure the various gases submitted to

examination. He had also the advantages of some
society of a highly intellectual cast : it is sufficient

to mention the names of Edgeworth and James

Tobin.

In reply to a letter of enquiry which was lately

addressed to   her, Miss Edgeworth observes, that
              possessed much influence over Davy's
" her father
mind ;" and that " when he was a very young man
at Clifton, unknown to fame, Mr. Edgeworth early

distinguished and warmly admired his talents, and

gave him much counsel, which sunk deep into his

mind.'-'

   The present Lord Durham and his brother were
also resident in the house of Dr. Beddoes, not only
for their education, but for the benefit of his pro-

fessional superintendence. Besides those who were

residing at Clifton, the most distinguished in the

circles of science and literature paid passing visits
to Dr. Beddoes ; with many of whom Davy con-

tracted an acquaintance, with some an intimacy,
and with a few a solid and permanent friendship.

In examining the individuals composing this latter

class, we find them differing so widely from each

other in character and pursuit, that we are led to

60 THE LIFE OF

enquire upon what principles of affinity his regards
could possibly have been attracted the truth is,

that there was more than one avenue to his heart ;

and the philosopher, the poet, the physician, the
philanthropist, and the sportsman, found each, upon
different terms, a more or less ready access to its
recesses. The chemist who would aspire to his

favour, could alone obtain it by laborious applica-

tion and novel research ; the philanthropist, by the
practicability of his schemes for improving society,
and increasing the sum of its happiness ; but the

fisherman instantly caught his affections by a hook
and line. To be a fly-fisher was, in his opinion,
to possess the capabilities of intellectual distinction,

although circumstances might not have conspired
to call them into action ; whilst a proficiency in this
art, when exhibited by an individual otherwise dis-
tinguished, gave him an additional claim to his
attention and regard. The stern courage of Nelson,
tempered as it was with all the kindly feelings of
humanity, was sufficient to excite in the breast of
Davy the most enthusiastic admiration ; but the
circumstance of his having been a fly-fisher, and
continued the sport, even with his left hand, threw,
in his opinion, a still brighter halo around his

character.

   No one who knew him can accuse him of incon-
stancy in his friendships: amidst the excitements
of his station, and the abstractions incident to his

pursuits, he might not always have shown those
little attentions which are received by the world
as the indications of personal regard ; but his heart

beat not less warmly on that account : when the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  6l

 flame of affection had been once kindled, it burnt
 with a pure and steady light through life. This
 will be readily seen in the letters addressed to his
 several early friends, more especially to Mr. Poole

Iof Nether Stowey, in Somersetshire, and to Mr.

 Clay field of Bristol, from which shall have occa-

 sion to present some interesting extracts.
    Those who had become acquainted with him in

early life, and were enabled to watch the whole

progress of his career from obscurity to the high-
est pinnacle of fame, have declared that his extra-

ordinary talents never at any period excited greater

astonishment and admiration than during his short
residence at Bristol. His simplicity of mind and

manner was also at this time truly delightful.
He scarcely knew the names of our best authors,
much less read any of their works ; yet upon
topics of moral philosophy and metaphysics he
would enter into discussion with acknowledged
scholars, and not only delight them with the native
energy of his mind, but instruct them by the no-
velty and truth of his conceptions. Mr. Coleridge

lately expressed to me the astonishment he felt,

very shortly after his introduction to him, on hear-

ing him maintain an argument upon some abstruse
subject with a gentleman equally distinguished for
the extent of his erudition, and for the talent of

rendering it available for illustration; the con-
trast was most striking it was the fresh and native
wild flower, opposed to the elaborate exotic of the
Hortus Siccus !

   During this period he occasionally visited his
friend. Mr. Gregory Watt, at Birmingham ; at which

62 THE LIFE OF

place his ambition was constantly excited by inter-

course with congenial minds ; and his letters to his

mother and relations represent him as rejoicing in

the success of his experiments, and as delighting

in his association with kindred genius ; but always

casting a longing, lingering thought on the scenes

of his boyhood, he spoke with joyful anticipation

of the period at which he proposed to revisit his

mother and family.

That he still continued to regard the practice of

physic as the great end and object of all his pur-

suits, is evident from one of these letters, written in
1799, in which he says, " Philosophy, Chemistry,

and Medicine, are my profession."

On the 1st of December 1799 he visited Lon-

don for the first time, and remained abovit a fort-

night ; the friends with whom he associated upon

this occasion were Coleridge, Sou they, Gregory
Watt, Underwood, James and John Tobin, Thom-

son, and Clay field ; all of whom vied with each

other in their exertions to render his visit agreeable,

conducting him to such persons and places as were

deemed worthy of his notice.

   Of all the letters placed at my disposal, those

addressed to his early friend and patron, Mr. Da-

vies Gilbert, are, in my judgment, the most in-

teresting : it is true, that as specimens of episto-

lary style they have but slender pretensions, and

are far less pleasing than those written to Mr. Poole

and others, in later life ; but let it be remembered

that, as yet, their writer had never enjoyed the
advantages of literary correspondence.
                                        For the

defects, however, of style, there is more than suffi-

        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         63

cient compensation ; they speak from the heart ;

they cany with them internal evidence of the honest

simplicity of his mind, and they throw a light upon
the peculiarities of his genius, which without such

aid might be less perfectly understood ; above all,

they evince an ardour which no difficulties could

repress, and a confidence which no failures could

extinguish. We clearly discern from his first let-

ters, that he entered upon his career of experiment

with an almost chivalrous feeling, flushed with the

consciousness of native strength, and exulting in

Ithe prospect of destined achievements.
      am aware that there are those who still object,
with Dr. Sprat, to the practice of publishing letters
Iwhich were never intended for the public eye, and
Iexperience the inconvenience, while respect the
Idelicacy, of such an opinion.
Ipart,                          confess, on my own

        have always considered, with Mr. Mason,

that the objections urged by the learned historian of

the Royal Society are wholly untenable. He talks
of " the souls of men thus appearing undressed, or

in a habit too negligent to go abroad in the streets,

although they might be seen by a few in a cham-

ber." But the undress he would condemn, is the

nakedness of Truth the negligent attire, the simple

and unadorned expression of those natural and sig-

nificant traits, whose value incomparably exceeds the

premeditated and artificial exhibitions of mind and
manner. "Nam in ingenio quoque sicut in agro,

quanquam alia diu serantur atque elaborantur, gra-

tiora tamen quce sua sponte nascuntur"*

        * Dialogus de Oratoribus, Tacit.

64 THE LIFE OF

I cannot but suspect that Dr. Sprat was, upon this

occasion, more anxious to display a metaphor, than

to illustrate a truth. I have often thought a very

curious book might be written to show how greatly,

both in physics and in morals, the progress of truth

has been retarded, and the judgment of men warped,

by the abuse of metaphors ; the most correct of

which can be nothing more than the image of Truth

reflected, as it were, from a mirror, and consequently

liable to all the delusions of our mental optics. The
figure by which Nature was represented as " abhor-

ring a vacuum? kept us in ignorance of the true
theory of the pump for two thousand years after the

discovery of the weight, or gravity, of the atmo-

sphere;* and the unfortunate P. L. Courier positively

Iodchweafeerdgnedhainst"ceUoxnncvleaicictmrioi,tnp"leStioanuvdaeezmp-noeoitsuaospnh"oderin the Judge's

                                                                                        Well might the

                                                                                        la Metaphore /"

The first of the letters to which have alluded

appears to have been written rather more than five
weeks after his arrival at Clifton.

TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

I IDEAR SIR,
Clifton, November 12, 1798.
HAVE purposely delayed writing until could

communicate to you some intelligence of importance

   * Plutarch, in expressing the opinion of Asclepiades upon this
subject, represents him as saying, that the external air, by its

weight, opened its way with force into the breast. Seneca also

was acquainted with the weight and elastic force of the air ; for

he describes the constant effort by which it expands itself when it
is compressed, and affirms that it has the property of condensing
itself, and of forcing its way through all obstacles that oppose
its passage. Quaest. Nat. lib. v. c. v. and vi.

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     65

Iconcerning the Pneumatic Institution. The speedy

execution of the plan will, think, interest you,

both as a subscriber and a friend to science and man-

kind. The present subscription is, we suppose,

nearly adequate to the purpose of investigating the

medicinal powers of factitious airs ; it still continues

to increase, and we may hope for the ability of pur-
suing the investigation to its full extent. We are

negotiating for a house in Dowrie Square, the prox-

imity of which to Bristol, and its general situation

Iand advantages, render it very suitable to the pur-

pose. The funds will, suppose, enable us to pro-

vide for eight or ten patients in the hospital, and for

as many out of it as we can procure.
We shall try the gases in every possible way.

They may be condensed by pressure and rarefied

by heat. Quere, would not a powerful injecting

syringe,* furnished with two valves, one opening

into an air-holder and the other into the breathing

chamber, answer the purpose of compression better

than any other apparatus ? Can you not, from your

extensive stores of philosophy, furnish us with some

hints on this subject? May not the non-respirable

gases furnish a class of different stimuli ? of which

the oxy-muriatic acid gas would stand the highest, if

we might judge from its effects on the lungs ; then,

probably, gaseous oxyd of azote, and hydrocarbonate.

  I suppose you have not heard of the discovery of
Ithe native sulphate of strontlan in England.
                                               shall

perhaps surprise you by stating that we have it in
large quantities here. It had long been mistaken for

* Here the reader will recognise the force of early associations.

VOL. I.  F

66 THE LIFE OF

sulphate ofbarytes, till our friend Clay field, on en-
deavouring to procure the muriate ofbarytes from it
by decomposition, detected the strontian. We open-
ed a fine vein of it about a fortnight ago, at the Old

Passage near the mouth of the Severn. It was em-

bodied in limestone and gypsum, the outside of the

vein, a striated mass ; the internal parts finely crys-

tallised in cubes, of the Sp. Gr. 4*1. Clayfield has
been working at it for some time. \Ve have per-

suaded him to publish his analysis in the first volume

Iof the Western Physical Collection.
      have made with him the phosphuret of barytes
and of strontian : they possess, in common with that
of lime, the property of producing phosphorized hy-

drogen gas ; the phosphuret of strontian, it appears,

in a more eminent degree.

   We have likewise attempted to decompose the

boracic and muriatic acids, by passing phosphorus, in

vapour, through muriate, and borate of lime, heated

red. Phosphate of lime was found in the experi-

ment on the boracic acid; but, as no pneumatic

apparatus was employed, the experiment was uncer-

tain. We shall repeat them next week.

  IWe are printing in Bristol the first volume of the

4 West Country Collection,' which will, suppose, be
out in the beginning of January.

Mrs. Beddoes hopes that Miss Giddy received her

letter, and desires me to certify that she wrote

almost immediately after the reception of her epistle.

She is as good, amiable, and elegant as when you

saw her. Believe me, dear Sir, with affection and

respect,  Truly your's,

          HUMPHRY DAVY.

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,                        67

The work announced in the above letter was pub-
lished in        commencement of the year 1799, under
the title  the   Contributions to Physical and Medical

           of "

Knowledge, principally from the West of England ;
collected by Thomas Beddoes, M.D."

The first two hundred pages, constituting very
nearly half the volume,                                   of Davy,
and consist of essays    a"reOntheHceoamt,poLsiigtiohnt,
                                                           and the
Combinations of Light." "On Phos-oxygen, or
Oxygen and its Combinations ;" and " On the

Theory of Respiration."

His first essay commences with an experiment, in

order to show that light is not, as Lavoisier sup-

posed, a modification, or an effect, of heat, but mat-

ter of a peculiar kind, sui generis, which, when

moving through space, or in a state of projection, is
capable of becoming the source of a numerous class

of our sensations.

  A small gunlock was armed with an excellent
flint, and, on being snapped in an exhausted re-

ceiver, did not produce any light. The experiment

was repeated in carbonic acid, and with a similar

result. Small particles were in each case separated

from the steel, which, on microscopic examina-

tion, evidently appeared to have undergone fusion.

Whence Davy argued, that light cannot be caloric
in a state of projection, or it must have been pro-

duced in these experiments, where heat existed to

an extent sufficient to fuse steel. Nor, that it can

be, as some have supposed, a vibration of the ima-
ginary fluid ether; for, granting the existence of
such a fluid, it must have been present in the re-

ceiver. If, then, light be neither caloric in a state of

                         F2

68 THE LIFE OF

projection, nor the vibration of an imaginary ether,
it must, he says, be a substance sui generis.

   With regard to caloric, his opinion that it is not,
like light, material, has been already noticed. In

the present essay he maintains the proposition by
the same method of reasoning as that by which he

attempts to establish  the   materiality  of light, and
which mathematicians   have  termed the   " reductio ad

absurdum."

   In his chapter on " Light and its Combinations,"
he indulges in speculations of the wildest nature,

although it must be confessed that he has infused

an interest into them which might almost be called

dramatic. They are certainly highly characteristic
of that enlightened fancy, which was perpetually on

the wing, and whose flight, when afterwards tem-

pered and directed by judgment, enabled him to
abstract the richest treasures from the recesses of

abstract truth.

Taking it for granted that caloric has no exist-

ence as a material body, or, in other words, that the

phenomena of repulsion do not depend upon the
agency of a peculiar fluid, and that, on the contrary,

light is a subtle fluid acting on our organs of vision

only when in a state of repulsive projection, he pro-
ceeds to examine the French theory of combustion ;
the defects of which he considers to arise from the

assumption of the imaginary fluid caloric, and the
total neglect of light. He conceives that the light

evolved during combustion previously existed in
the oxygen gas, which he therefore proposes for the

future to call PHOS-OXYGEN.*

   * Brugnatelli considered that oxygen, in certain cases of com.
bination, entered into union with different bodies, without parting

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  $9

    In following up this question, he would seem
to consider Light as the Anima Mundi, diffusing

through the universe not only organization, but

even animation and perception.

    Phos-oxygen he considers as capable of combining
with additional proportions of Light, and of thus
becoming ' luminated Phos-oxygen /' from the de-
composition of which, and the consequent liberation
of light, he seeks to explain many of the most re-
condite phenomena of Nature.

   We cannot but admire the eagerness with which

he enlists known facts into his service, and the bold-

ness with which he ranges the wilds of creation in
search of analogies for the support and illustration
of his views. He imagines that the Phos-oxygen,

when thus luminated, must necessarily have its spe-

cific gravity considerably diminished by the combi-
nation, and that it will therefore occupy the higher
regions of the atmosphere ; hence, he says, it is that
combustion takes place at the tops of mountains at
a lower temperature than in the plains, and with a
greater liberation of light. The hydrogen which is
disengaged from the surface of the earth, he sup-
poses, will rise until it comes into contact with this

luminated Phos-oxygen, when, by its attracting the
oxygen to form water, the light will be set free,
and give origin to the phenomena of fiery meteors

at a great altitude.

    The phenomenon termed 'Phosphorescence,' or

that luminous appearance which certain bodies ex-
hibit after exposure to heat, is attributed by this

with its caloric; and in that state he gave it the name of THERM-
OXYGEN; so that Davy had a precedent for his nomenclatural
innovation.

70 THE LIFE OF

theory to the light, which may be supposed to quit

such substances as soon as its particles have acquired

repulsive motion by elevation of temperature.
   The Electric Fluid is considered , as Light in a

condensed state, or, in other words, in that peculiar

state in which it is not supplied with a repulsive

motion sufficiently energetic to impart projection

to its particles ; for, he observes, that its chemical

action upon bodies is similar to that of Light ; and

when supplied with repulsive motion by friction, or

by the contact of bodies from which it is capable of

             it,

                it

                                                is
subtracting  loses the projectile form, and be-
comes perceptible as Light. It extremely pro-

bable, he adds, that the great quantity of this fluid

almost everywhere diffused over our earth pro-
duced by the condensation of Light, in consequence  is
of the subtraction of its repulsive motion by black
                                                                ;
and dark bodies while may again recover the
             ;

                         it

projectile force by the repulsive motion of the poles,

caused by the revolution of the earth on its axis,

and thus appear again in the state of sensible light
and hence the phenomenon of the Aurora Borealis,

or Northern Lights.

In considering the theory of Respiration, he sup-

poses that phos-oxygen combines with the venous

blood without decomposition but that, on reaching
;

             it

                           is

                                                           ;

                                                                                                                     !

                                                                                          a
the brain, the light liberated in the form of Elec-

tricity, which he believes to be identical with the

nervous fluid. On this supposition, sensations and

ideas are nothing more than motions of the nervous

ether or light exciting the medullary substance of

the nerves and brain into sensitive action

He thinks would be worth while to try, by

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.   71

very sensible electrometer, whether an insulated

muscle, when stimulated into action, would not give

indications of the liberation of electric fluid, although

he suspects that in man the quantity is probably too

small, and too slowly liberated, to be ascertainable.
In the torpedo, and in some other animals, however,

it is unquestionably given out perceptibly during

animal action.

   When any considerable change takes place in
the organic matter of the body, so as to destroy the

powers of life, new chemical attractions and repul-

sive motions take place, and the different principles

of which the body is composed enter into new com-
binations. In this process, which is called putrefac-

tion, Davy, in pursuance of this theory, thinks that

in land-animals the latent light of the system enters

into new combinations with oxygen and nitrogen,

but that in fish no such combinations occur, and

hence the luminous appearance which accompanies

their putrefaction.

Such is the outline of these extraordinary Essays.

They stand upon record, and therefore, as a faithful
Ibiographer,
                was bound to notice them ; nor are
Ithey devoid of interest or instruction : am not
Iquite sure that, amidst all the meteors of his fancy,
there may not be a gleam of truth.  allude to his

theory of Respiration : it certainly does not square
with the physiological opinions of the day ; nor did

that of Newton, when he conjectured that water
might contain an inflammable element ; but it was

the refraction of a great truth, at that time below

the horizon.

  It was a very ancient opinion, that life, being in

72! THE LIFE OF

its own nature aeriform, is under the necessity of

renewing itself by inspiring the air. Modern che-
mistry, by teaching us the nature of the atmosphere,
has dispelled many fanciful theories of its action,

but it has not yet explained why respiration, the

first and last act of life,* cannot be suspended, even

fof a minute, without the extinction of vitality.
When we reflect upon this fact, it is scarcely possi-

ble not to believe that the function has been or-

dained for some greater purpose than that of remov-

ing a portion of carbon from the circulating blood.

Is it unreasonable to conclude that some principle is

thus imparted, which is too subtle to be long retain-

Ied in our vessels, and too important                   to be  dispensed
with, even    foMrotnhteaigsnheortessatysp, e"riondot?         offer this
opinion," as                                              "

                                                        as being good,

Ibut as being my own."               am not to be supposed as

   By these observations,

Iwishing, for a moment, to uphold the wild hypo-

theses which have just related ; it must be admit-

ted that the theory ofphos-oxygen and luminated phos-

Ioxygen has scarcely a parallel in extravagance and

absurdity ; and happen to know that, in after life,

Davy bitterly regretted that he had so committed

himself ; any allusion to the subject became a source

of painful irritation. It is to be remarked, that in

every course of lectures, although Davy did not

refer to these theories, he frequently alluded to the

* Breath and life are synonymous. In the Greek, the most

philosophically constructed language with which we are acquainted,
a.thisjirst and last act is expressed by a verb composed of alpha and
omega         In the Latin, the connexion between spiro and spi-

ritus, breath and life, is evident.

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           73

unphilosophic spirit that had given origin to them ;

as if he had imposed upon himself this penance as

an atonement for    his    early  follies.         :  Th"eAfftoellrowwihnagt
note was taken at  one    of his  lectures

has been said, it will be useless to enter upon an

examination of any of those theories, which, assum-

ing for their foundation the connexion of life with

respiration, have attempted to prove that oxygen is

the principle of life, and that the wonderful and

mysterious phenomena of perception arise from the

action of common gravitating substances upon each

other. Such theories are the dreams of mis-

employed genius, which the light of experiment and

observation has never conducted to truth, and are

merely a collection of terms derived from known

phenomena, and applied by loose analogies of lan-

guage to unknown things."
   The reader, however, will be disposed to treat

him with all tenderness when he remembers that the

Ifauthor of these Essays was barely eighteen years of
age.  blame is to fall on any one, let it fall on

Dr. Beddoes, who never should have sanctioned the

publication : had he curbed the ardent and untamed

imagination of the young philosopher, he would have
acted the part of a wise man and of a kind friend.
But the truth is, that much as Davy needed the
bridle, Beddoes* required it still more; for, not-

withstanding his talents, he was as little fitted for a

Mentor as a weathercock for a compass ; and had it

* The only pun Davy is said to have ever made was upon the

occasion of   Mr. Sadler   being appointed    by"   Dr.  Beddoes as his
successor.                imagine," said he,       why   he has engaged
             " I cannot

Sadler, unless it is that he may be well bridled."

74 THE LIFE OF

not been for the ascendency which Davy gained
over his mind, the ardour of his temperament would

have continually urged him beyond the bounds

of reason.

Caught by the loosest analogies, he would arrive

at a conclusion without examining all the conditions

of his problem. In the exercise of his profession,

therefore, he was frequently led to prescribe plans

which he felt it necessary to retract the next hour.
His friend Mr. T
                  had occasion to consult him

upon the case of his wife : the Doctor prescribed a
new remedy ; but, in the course of the day he re-

turned in haste, and begged that, before Mrs. T

took the medicine, its effect might be tried on a dog !

The following anecdote, which was lately com-

municated to me by Mr. Coleridge, will not only
illustrate a trait of character, but furnish a salutary

lesson to the credulous patron of empirics. As soon

as the powers of nitrous oxide were discovered, Dr.

Beddoes at once concluded that it must necessarily
Abe a specific for paralysis.
                               patient was selected

for the trial, and the management of it was entrust-

ed to Davy. Previous to the administration of the

gas, he inserted a small pocket thermometer under

the tongue of the patient, as he was accustomed to

do upon such occasions, to ascertain the degree of

animal temperature, with a view to future compa-

rison. The paralytic man, wholly ignorant of the
nature of the process to which he was to submit,

but deeply impressed, from the representations of
Dr. Beddoes, with the certainty of its success, no

sooner felt the thermometer between his teeth than

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  75

he concluded that the talisman was in full opera-

tion, and in a burst of enthusiasm declared that he

already experienced the effects of its benign in-

fluence throughout his whole body: the opportu-

nity was too tempting to be lost Davy cast an

intelligent glance at Mr. Coleridge, and desired the

patient to renew his visit on the following day,

when the same ceremony was again performed, and

repeated every succeeding day for a fortnight, the

patient gradually improving during that period,

when he was dismissed as cured, no other applica-

tion having been used than that of the thermome-

ter. Dr. Beddoes, from whom the circumstances of

the case had been intentionally concealed, saw in

the restoration of the patient the confirmation of his

opinion, and the fulfilment of his most ardent hope

"  Nitrous  Oxide was    a specific remedy for Paralysis!
            criminal to   retard the general promulga-
   It were

tion of so important a discovery ; it were cruel to

delay the communication of the fact until the publi-
cation of another volume of his ' Contributions;' the

periodical magazines were too slow in their rate of

travelling, a flying pamphlet would be more expe-

ditious ; paragraphs in the newspapers ; circulars to

the hospitals :" such were the reflections and plans

which successively agitated the physician's mind,

when his eyes were opened to the unwelcome truth

by Davy's confessing the delusion that had been

practised.

  A short time after the publication of the first

volume of the " Contributions," Davy addressed to
his friend the following letter :

76 THE LIFE OF

          TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

                                                           Clifton, Feb. 22, 1799.

IDEAR FRIEND, for love you too well to call
Iyou by a more ceremonious name,
                                  have delayed

writing to you from day to day, expecting that

                             would produce results
                              Since received your
                              have been chiefly em-
some of our experiments

Iworthy of communication.
Ilast very acceptable letter,

ployed in pursuing the experiments on Heat, Light,

IRespiration, &c. Of these experiments shall give
Iyou no account, as you will see them in print.
Isent you a copy of my Essays last week ; if you

have not received them, trust you will find them

at my mother's, or at Mr. Tonkin's.

  In the same parcel were two small packets, one

from Mrs. Beddoes for your father, the other for

Miss Giddy from Mrs. Willoughby. About a fort-

Inight ago sent a few chemical instruments to Mr.
Penneck of Penzance; and inclosed with them were

Ifspecimens of the different varieties of sulphate of
strontian addressed to you.  you have not re-

ceived them, you will get them by sending to Mr.

Penneck.

   On looking over a box of minerals last week,

Iwhich was sent to Dr. Beddoes from Cumberland,
found two very fine specimens of sulphate of stron-

tian, marked by the collector Laminated Shorl. I

Isuspect this mineral is not scarce in calcareous coun-

tries ; it is, dare say, often mistaken for sulphate

Iof barytes.
      have succeeded in combining strontian with the
oxygenated muriatic acid. This salt possesses most

        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                                             77

astonishing properties ; * you will find an account of

Ithem in my Essay.                                 shall be

   When you have perused my papers,

very much obliged to you for a criticism upon
I Ithem. When left Penzance, was quite an in-
Ifant in speculation, knew very little of Light or
IHeat.  am now as much convinced of the non-
Iexistence of caloric, as am of the existence of

light. Independent of the experiments which ap-

pear to demonstrate its non-existence directly, and

of which you will find an account in my Essay, the

consideration of certain phenomena leads me to sup-

pose that there would be no difficulty in proving

its non-existence by reasoning. These considera-

Itions have occurred to me since the publication of

the work. could now render it much more per-

Ifect ; but hope soon to complete the investigation
Iof the combinations of Light, and to produce a much
more perfect work on the subject.                  shall be in-

finitely obliged to you for any hints or observations,

* The following is the account given in his Essay. " When

sulphuric acid was poured into a solution of this salt in water, a

beautiful and unexpected phenomenon took place. The room was

accidentally darkened at the moment this experiment was made, so
that we were enabled to perceive a vivid luminous appearance.

This experiment, independent of its beauty, is extremely pleasing

p. It

                                                            a
                                                         a

                                                                  of

                                                                                     is is,

                                                                   if

                                                                                                                   a
as affording an instance of true combustion, that  the production

of Light and Heat by the mixture of two incombustible bodies."

may be presumed, that this phenomenon arose from the deve-

lopement and decomposition of portion of Euchlorine, com-
pound which he subsequently discovered in 1811. In the year

1813, Chevreul announced, as new discovery, that strontian be

heated in contact with muriatic acid gas, the gas absorbed, and

the earthy salt becomes red hot. See Annals        Philosophy, vol. ii.

312.

78 THE LIFE OF

Ias far as the detection of errors of any kind, for it is

no flattery to say that pay greater deference to

your opinion than to that of any other philosopher.
   We intend next week to endeavour to ascertain,

by the aid of a delicate balance, the quantities of

ILight liberated in different combustive processes.

That there is a deficiency of weight, am convinced
from many experiments.

   The experiments on Light, &c. have prevented
me from attempting the decomposition of the unde-

Icompounded acids. We have ordered an apparatus

at the glass-house for this purpose, and hope next

week we shall be able to carry on the investigation.

Two modes of effecting these decompositions have

occurred to me : first, to bring phosphorus or sul-
phur, in the gaseous state, in contact with the acid

gases in a tube heated intensely ; secondly, to send

sulphur in the gaseous state through muriate of
copper or lead, heated white. The attraction of
sulphur for oxygen, of copper for oxygen, and of
sulphur for copper, will probably effect the decom-

position.

   Our laboratory in the Pneumatic Institution is

nearly finished, and we shall begin the investigations

in about a fortnight. We shall begin by trying the
gases in their simplest mode of application, and

Igradually carry on the more complex processes.

      hope the gaseous oxide of azote will prove to be

Ia specific stimulus for the absorbents.
      was last week surprised by a letter from Mr.

IWatt, announcing the success of their trial. When
   was at Birmingham five weeks ago, the family

were in very low spirits. I spent nine or ten days

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 79

Ithere, chiefly with Mr. Keir and Mr. Watt : had

a great deal of chemical conversation with them.

IMr. Keir is one of the best-informed men have

ever met with, and extremely agreeable. Both he
and Mr. Watt are still phlogitians ; but Mr. Keir
altogether disbelieves the doctrine of calorique.

What news have you in Cornwall? Has Mr.

John Hawkins returned to his native county ? he
will doubtless be a great acquisition to you.

Pray do you know whether the Zoophyta and

marine worms are susceptible of the galvanic stimu-

lus ? Experiments on them would go far to deter-

mine whether the irritable or sensitive fibre is pri-

Imarily affected.

      know of little general scientific news. In the
last volume of the Annales de Chimie is a curious

paper by Berthollet on sulphurated hydrogen : he

Imakes it out to be an acid. shall most anxiously
Iexpect a letter from you, and remain with affec-

tion and respect,  Yours,

                   HUMPHRY DAVY.

   The letter which follows may be considered as a
reply to one received from Mr. Davies Gilbert,
which, it would appear, contained strictures upon

his recently published Essays,

TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

MY DEAR FRIEND,            April 10, 1799.

THE engagements resulting from the establish-

Iment of the Pneumatic Institution, and from a

course of experiments, to which have been obliged

80 THE LIFE OF

to pay great attention, have prevented me from

Iacknowledging to you my obligations for the very

great pleasure received from your last excellent

letter.

In experiments on Light and Heat, we have to
deal with agents whose changes we are unable di-

rectly to estimate. The most we can hope for is

such an arrangement of facts as will account for

most of the phenomena.

The supposition of active powers common to all

matter, from the different modifications of which all

the phenomena of its changes result, appears to me

more reasonable than the assumption of certain ima-

ginary fluids alone endowed with active powers, and

bearing the same relation to common matter, as the

vulgar philosophy supposes spirit to bear to matter.

That the particles of bodies must move, or sepa-

rate from each other, when they become expanded,

is certain. A repulsive motion of the particles is

directly the cause of expansion ; and when bodies

are expanded by friction, under circumstances in

which there could be no heat communicated by

Ibodies in contact, no oxidation and no diminution

of capacity, see no difficulty in conceiving the re-

pulsive motion generated by the mechanical motion.

   Your excellent and truly philosophic observations

will induce me to pay greater attention to all my

positions. It is only by forming theories, and then

Icomparing them with facts, that we can hope to
discover the true system of nature.  will endea-

vour very soon to give an answer to the remaining
part of your excellent letter.

  I have now just room to give you an account of

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  81

Ithe experiments         have lately been engaged in,

though they are not much connected with light

and heat.

  First One of Mr. William Coate's children ac-

cidentally discovered that two bonnet-canes rubbed
together produced a faint light. The novelty of

Ithis phenomenon induced me to examine it, and

found that the canes on collision produced sparks of

light, as brilliant as those from the flint and steel.

  ISecondly. On examining the epidermis, found,

when it was taken off, that the canes no longer gave

light on collision.

    Thirdly. The epidermis, subjected to chemical

analysis, had all the properties of silex.
   Fourthly. The similar appearance of the epider-

mis of reeds, corn, and grasses, induced me to sup-

pose that they likewise contained silex. By burning

Ithem carefully, and analysing their ashes, found

that they contained it in rather larger proportions

than the canes.

   Fifthly. The corn and grasses contain sufficient

potash to form glass with their flint. A very pretty

Ifexperiment may be made on these plants with the
blow-pipe.       you take a straw of wheat, barley, or

hay,* and burn it, beginning at the top, and heating
the ashes with the blue flame, you will obtain a
perfect globule of hard glass fit for microscopic

Iexperiments.
      made a discovery yesterday which proves how
necessary it is to repeat experiments. The gaseous

oxide of azote is perfectly respirable when pure. It

   * It is very common,  after the burning of a hay-stack, to find
glass in the ashes. P.              G

   VOL. I.

82 THE LIFE OF

is never deleterious but when it contains nitrous

Igas. have found a mode of obtaining it pure, and
I breathed to-day, in the presence of Dr. Beddoes
and some others, sixteen quarts of it for near seven

minutes. It appears to support life longer than

even oxygen gas, and absolutely intoxicated me.

Pure oxygen gas produced no alteration in my

pulse, nor any other material effect ; whereas this

gas raised my pulse upwards of twenty strokes,

made me dance about the laboratory as a madman,
and has kept my spirits in a glow ever since. Is not

this a proof of the truth of my theory of respiration ?

Ifor this gas contains more light in proportion to its

oxygen than any other, and hope will prove a

most valuable medicine.

We have upwards of eighty out-patients in the

Pneumatic Institution, and are going on wonder-

Ifully well.

      shall hope for the favour of a letter from you,
Iand in my answer to it will fully inform you of our
proceedings.  have just room to add that I am

              Yours, with affection and respect,

                         HUMPHRY DAVY.

  I cannot suffer the experiments with the bonnet-
Icanes to pass, without endeavouring to infuse into

the reader a portion of that admiration which feel
in relating them. They furnish a beautiful illustra-
tion of that combination of observation, experiment,
and analogy, first recommended by Lord Bacon, and
so strictly adopted by Davy in all his future grand

researches.

   In alluding to this discovery that siliceous earth

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.          83

exists  generally in the epidermis    olefcthuorlelos,wthpalat n"tsthe
        observes in his agricultural
Davy

siliceous epidermis serves as a support, protects the

bark from the action of insects, and seems to perform

a part in the economy of these feeble vegetable

tribes, similar to that performed in the animal king-
dom by the shell of the crustaceous insects."

The circumstance that first led him to the inves-

tigation of the nature of nitrous oxide, or the gaseous

oxide of azote, alluded to in the foregoing letter, has
"Abeen thus recorded by himself.      short time
Iafter began the study of Chemistry, in March

1798, my attention was directed to the dephlogisti-

cated nitrous gas of Priestley (nitrous oxide) by Dr.
Mitchell's theory of Contagion, by which he at-

tempted to prove that dephlogisticated nitrous gas !
which he calls oxide ofsepton, was the principle of
contagion, and capable of producing the most terri-
ble effects, when respired by animals in the minutest
quantities, or even when applied to the skin, or

muscular fibre.

   " The fallacy of this theory was soon demonstrated

by a few coarse experiments, made on small quan-
tities of this gas procured, in the first instance, from
zinc and diluted nitrous acid. Wounds were ex-

Iposed to its action; the bodies of animals were

immersed in it without injury ; and breathed it,
mingled in small quantities with common air, with-
out any remarkable effects. An inability to procure
it in sufficient quantities prevented me, at this time,

Ifrom pursuing the experiments to any greater ex-
tent.   communicated an account of them to Dr.

Beddoes."

           G2

84 THE LIFE OF

   His situation in the " Medical Pneumatic Insti-
tution" in 1799, imposing upon him the duty of
investigating the physiological effects of such aeri-
form fluids as held out any promise of useful agen-

cy, he resumed the investigation ; a considerable pe-
riod, however, elapsed, before he succeeded in procu-

ring nitrous oxide in a state of purity ; he was there-
fore obliged to breathe it in mixture with oxygen
gas, or common air; but as no just conclusion could
be deduced from the action of an impure gas, he
commenced an enquiry for the purpose of discover-
ing a process by which it might be procured in an

uneontaminated condition ; when, after a most la-

borious investigation concerning its composition,
properties, and combinations, enquiries which were

necessarily extended to the different bodies con-
nected with nitrous oxide, such as nitrous gas,

nitrous acid, and ammonia, he was enabled, by a
series of intermediate and comparative experiments,
to reconcile apparent anomalies, and thus, by re-
moving the greater number of those difficulties
which had previously obscured this branch of
 science, to present to the chemical world the first
 satisfactory history of the COMBINATIONS OF OXY-
 GEN AND NITROGEN.

    Thus prepared, he proceeded to examine the
 action of nitrous oxide upon living beings, and to
 compare it with the effects of other gases upon
 man ; and in this manner he completed its physio-
 logical, as he had already done its chemical history.

    These interesting results were published in a dis-
 tinct volume, in the year 1800, entitled, " Re-

 searches Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly con-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          85

cerning Nitrous Oxide, and its Respiration. By

Humphry Davy, Superintendent of the Medical

Institution."

  It may be observed in passing, that the merits of

this work could never have been inferred from the

title-page, which its most sanguine admirers must

admit to be as clumsy and unpromising an invita-

tion as an author ever addressed to his scientific

brethren.                                  find

  IAmongst Davy's letters to Mr. Gilbert,
one written on a proof sheet of the chapter of con-
tents of the above work, and which may not be

uninteresting in this place.

                     TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

                                                                 July 3, 1800.

   THAT our feelings, as well as our actions, are
rendered stronger and more vivid by habit, is pro-

bable from many facts, and from no one more so

Ithan that of procrastination. My much respected

friend, two months after my return,* had formed
the resolution of writing to you ; week after week
this resolution was renewed and put off to a future
day, with the hope that this day, by presenting
something new, would enable me to make my let-

ter more interesting. In vain ! the feeling of pro-

crastination, thus increased by association, at length

became so strong as to prevent me from writing

at all.f

   * From his visit to London, as noticed at page 62.

  f With respect to the metaphysical speculation contained in

this paragraph of his letter, had he not written it in haste, we

might presume he would have given a more exact expression to his

86 THE LIFE OF

  I have received your letter ; it has awakened my

duties, and has been doubly welcome, as being un-

expected and undeserved.

  ISince my return to the Pneumatic Institution in

December, have been almost incessantly occupied,

from January to April, in completing a series of
experiments on Gases, and their application; and
from April to the present time, in writing and

Iprinting an account of them.

      have written this letter on the table of contents

Iof a work which will be published in the course of

the month, and of which shall take the earliest
opportunity to send you a copy. This table of

Icontents will give you a better idea of the nature

and extent of the investigation, than could possi-
bly have given in a letter.

   We have been repeating the Galvanic experi-
ments with success. Nicholson, by means of a
hundred pieces of silver and zinc, has procured a

visible spark. Cruickshank has revived oxidated
metals in solution, by means of the nascent hydro-
gen produced from the decomposition of water by
the shock ; and both he and Carlisle have absolute-
ly resolved water into oxygen and hydrogen by
means of it, making use of silver and platina wires.

An immense field of investigation seems opened by

ideas. By the misapplied term " Feeling of Procrastination/' he

doubtless meant to describe that aversion to labour which becomes
habit by indulgence, and the perception of which, so far from in-

creasing in vividness, actually languishes to obtuseness. To bor-
row an expression from Dr. Johnson, Davy, in his metaphysical
speculations, not unfrequently trod upon the brink of meaning,

where light and darkness begin to mingle.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  87

 this discovery : may it be pursued so as to acquaint
us with some of the laws of life !

   You have, undoubtedly, heard of Herschel's dis-
covery concerning the production of heat by invi-

sible rays emitted from the sun. By placing one
thermometer within the red rays, separated by a
prism, and another beyond them, he found the tem-
perature of the outside thermometer raised more
than that of the inside one.

  IWhen first heard of Mr. Tennant's discovery,*

I was very much struck by an observation which

you long ago made to me, on the fertility of the

Cornish lands, in which there was decomposed, felt-
spar or serpentine.

  IMr. Tennant spent a day here some time ago,

when mentioned your observation to him, but he
could not give any solution of the phenomenon.

Quere. As lime and magnesia are probably both

subservient to vegetation, only from supplying
plants with carbonic acid, may not lime, when min-
gled with magnesia, in the process of vegetation,
render it partially caustic, and thus enable it to

destroy them ?

   Your observation on the scale of numbers, and

the fact relative to it, are highly interesting. Rea-

soning on this subject would literally form the logic
of generalization, or the application of one term
to signify many terms, or many ideas, on which
science ultimately depends. Quere. How far have
the first attempts at generalization arisen from acci-

   * Davy here alludes to the fact of magnesian earth being pre-
judicial to vegetation.

88 THE LIFE OF

dent, and how far from the resemblance between

ideas ?

   Dr. Beddoes has always ridiculed the " Tractors?
in common with all other reasonable men. He is

J.about to publish a new work on the Nitrous Acid.
       Wedgwood is returned, very little altered for
the better. Coleridge is gone to reside in Cumber-
land ; he was here the week before last, and spent
much time with me, and often spoke of you with
the greatest interest. Clayfield is at this moment

chiefly engaged in commercial speculations. He

has found a new mode of making soda, which there

Iis every reason to believe will turn out profitable.
       hope some time in the autumn to see you, and

Ito enjoy the well remembered pleasure of your con-

versation; in the mean while, remain, with re-

spects to your family,
                    Yours with sincere affection,
                                              HUMPHRY DAVY.

   In estimating the early genius of Davy, and his
character as a philosopher, the style and matter of
his "RESEARCHES" will afford us much assistance.

The close philosophical reasoning, the patient and
penetrating industry, the candid submission to
every intimation of experiment, and the accuracy of
manipulation, so remarkably displayed throughout
this work, have been rarely equalled, and perhaps
never surpassed.

   There is scarcely to be found a more striking
illustration of chemical genius, than that afforded
by his chapter on the " Absorption of Nitrous Gas

by solutions ofgreen Sulphate of Iron"

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  89

    The address with which he gradually disentangles
the subject of its difficulties, and catches at every
opening to truth, affords a study which may be
safely recommended to the attention of every young
experimentalist, as being no less instructive than it
is beautiful.

    The phenomena attending the absorption of ni-
trous gas by solutions of sulphate of iron had been
examined by Vauquelin and by Berthollet, but the
conclusions of these chemical philosophers were fa-

tally infected by errors, arising from the neglected
action of the atmosphere. Davy, by conducting his
experiments over mercury, proved that, in the ab-
sence of air, the absorption was simply owing to a
combination between the gas and the fluid; but
that, on admitting air, the nitrous gas became ni-
trous acid, a portion of which, together with a part
of the water, subsequently underwent decomposi-

tion, and gave origin to ammonia, and ultimately to

nitrate of ammonia, while the iron passed into the
 state of a peroxide.

   We have also to admire in this work an ardour

for investigation, which even the most imminent
personal danger could not repress. He may truly
be said to have sought the bubble reputation in the
very jaws of Death. What shall we say of that
 spirit which led him to inspire nitrous gas, at the
hazard of filling his lungs with the vapour of aqua
fortis ! or what, of that intrepid coolness which en-
abled him to breathe a deadly gas, and to watch the
advances of its chilling power in the ebbing pulsa-

 tions at the wrist !

     These experiments, however, are far too interest-

90 THE LIFE OF

ing and important to be related in any other than
the author's own words; but it is first necessary
tli at his trials with the nitrous oxide should be

considered.

He found that this gas might be most conve-

niently, as well as most economically, prepared by
the decomposition of a salt known by the name of

nitrate of ammonia, by the application of a regulated

heat ; but, as the researches by which he arrived at

this conclusion are recorded at length in his work,
and as the most important of them are now embo-

died in every elementary system of chemistry, it

would not only be tedious but useless, to enter into
         of them upon
detail  April," he says,  this  occasion.
                                obtained
" In                       "
Ia                                                          nitrous  oxide  in

a state of purity, and ascertained many of its chemi-

cal properties. Reflections upon these properties,

Iand upon former trials, made me resolve to inspire

it in its pure form, for saw no other way in which

Iits "respwiaras bialiwtya,reorofpotwheersd,acnoguelrd  be  determined.
                                                            the experiment.
                                                        of
It certainly would never have been made, if the
Ihypothesis of Dr. Mitchell had in the least influ-
enced my mind.  thought that the effects might,

possibly, be depressing and painful ; but there were

many reasons which induced me to believe, that a
single inspiration of a gas, apparently possessing no

immediate action on the irritable fibre, could neither

Idestroy, nor materially injure, the powers of life.

   "On April llth, made the first inspiration of
pure nitrous oxide. It passed through the bronchise

without stimulating the glottis, and produced no

uneasy sensations in the lungs.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  91

     ' The result of this experiment proved that the

gas was respirable, and induced me to believe that a

farther trial of its effects might be made without

Idan"gOern. April 16th, Dr. Kinglake being accidentally

present, breathed three quarts of nitrous oxide
from and into a silk bag, for more than half a mi-

nute, without previously closing my nose, or ex-
hausting my lungs. The first inspirations occasioned
a slight degree of giddiness, which was succeeded
by an uncommon sense of fulness in the head, ac-
companied with loss of distinct sensation and volun-

tary power, a feeling analogous to that produced

in the first stage of intoxication ; but unattended by
pleasurable sensation. Dr. Kinglake, who felt my
pulse, informed me that it was rendered quicker

and fuller.
   " This trial did not satisfy me with regard to its

Ipowers : comparing it with the former ones, was

unable to determine whether the operation was

Istim" ulcaonmt morundiecaptreedssintgh.e result to Dr. Beddoes, and

on April the 17th, he was present when the follow-

ing experiment was made.

  I"Having previously closed my nostrils, and ex-

hausted my lungs, breathed four quarts of the gas
from and into a silk bag. The first feelings were
similar to those produced in the last experiment;

but in less than half a minute, the respiration being

continued, they diminished gradually, and were

succeeded by a sensation analogous to gentle pres-

sure on all the muscles, attended by an highly plea-
surable thrilling, particularly in the chest and in the

92 THE LIFE OF

extremities. The objects around me became daz-

zling, and my hearing more acute. Towards the
last inspirations, the thrilling increased, the sense of

muscular power became greater, and, at last, an

Iirresistible propensity to action was indulged in :
Irecollect but indistinctly what followed ; know

 my motions      were  various and violent.
These effects    very  soon ceased after the
Ithat                                         respira-

   "
tion of the gas. In ten minutes had recovered my

natural state of mind. The thrilling in the extre-

mities continued longer than the other sensations.

   " This experiment was made in the morning ; no

Ilanguor or exhaustion was consequent ; my feelings

throughout the day were as usual, and passed the

nig"hTthien  undisturbed repose.            of the effects
             next morning the recollection

of the gas was very indistinct ; and had not remarks

Iwritten immediately after the experiment recalled

them to my mind, should even have questioned

their reality."

   Our philosopher very naturally doubted whether
some of these strong emotions might not, after all,

be attributed to the enthusiasm necessarily connected

with the perception of agreeable feelings, when he

was prepared to expect painful sensations ; but he

says, that subsequent experiments convinced him

that the effects were solely owing to the specific
operation of the gas. He found that he could
breathe nine quarts of nitrous oxide for three mi-

nutes, and twelve quarts for rather more than four ;

                       it,
but that he could never breathe in any quantity,

so long as five minutes. Whenever its operation

was carried to the highest extent, the pleasurable

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  93

thrilling, at its height about the middle of the expe-
riment, gradually diminished, the sense of pressure

on the muscles was lost, impressions ceased to be
perceived, vivid ideas passed rapidly through the

mind, and voluntary power was altogether destroyed,

so that the mouth-piece generally dropped from his

unclosed lips. When he breathed from six to seven

quarts, muscular motions were produced to a great

extent : sometimes he manifested his pleasure by
stamping, or laughing only ; at other times, by
dancing round the room, and vociferating.

   During the progress of these experiments, it oc-

curred to him that, supposing nitrous oxide to be

analogous in its operation to common stimulants, the
debility occasioned by intoxication from fermented

liquors ought to be increased after excitement from
this gas, in the same manner as the debility pro-
duced by two bottles of wine is increased by a third.
To ascertain whether this was the case, he drank a

bottle of wine, in large draughts, in less than eight
minutes. His usual drink, he tells us, was water ;

he had been little accustomed to take spirits or

wine, and had never been intoxicated but once
before in the course of his life. Under such cir-

cumstances, we may readily account for the power-
ful effects produced by this quantity of wine, and

I Iwhich he describes in the following manner :

   " Whilst was drinking, perceived a sense of
fulness in the head, and throbbing of the arteries,

Inot unlike that produced in the first stage of ni-

trous oxide excitement : after had finished the

bottle, this fulness increased, the objects around me
became dazzling, the power of distinct articulation

94 THE LIFE OF

Iwas lost, and was unable to stand steadily. At

this moment, the sensations were rather pleasur-

able than otherwise ; the sense of fulness in the

head, however, soon increased, so as to become

Ipainful, and in less than an hour sunk into a state
Iof insensibility. In this situation must have re-
Imained for two hours, or two hours and a half.

was awakened by head-ache and painful nausea.

My bodily and mental debility were excessive, and

Ithe pulse feeble and quick.

   " In this state, breathed for near a minute and
a half five quarts of gas, which was brought to me
by the operator for nitrous oxide ; but as it pro-

Iduced no sensations whatever, and apparently rather

increased my debility, am almost convinced that

it was, from some accident, either common air, or

Ivery impure nitrous oxide.        respired twelve
   "Immediately after this trial,
quarts of oxygen for nearly four minutes. It pro-

I Iduced no alteration in my sensations at the time,

but immediately afterwards imagined that was

a little exhilarated.
" The head-ache and debility still, however, con-
Itinuing with violence,
                         examined some nitrous

oxide which had been prepared in the morning,
Iand finding it very pure, respired seven quarts of
Iit for two minutes and a half.
                                   was unconscious

of head-ache after the third inspiration ; the usual

pleasurable thrilling was produced, voluntary pow-

Ier was destroyed, and vivid ideas rapidly passed

through my mind ; made strides across the room,

and continued for some minutes much exhilarated ;

but languor and depression, not very different in

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  95

degree from those existing before the experiment,
succeeded ; they however gradually went off before

bed-time.

   " This experiment proved, that debility from in-

toxication was not increased by excitement from
nitrous oxide. The head-ache and depression would
probably have continued longer, had it not been

administered."

    The same work contains an account of many
other trials ; but sufficient has been extracted to

show the zeal and intrepidity with which he con-
ducted his researches. To withhold, however, the

testimony which several other scientific persons
have given, with respect to the intoxicating influ-
ence of this gas, would be to deprive the reader of

 some very amusing descriptions.

   First appears Mr. W. Tobin, who tells us that

he soon found his nervous system agitated by the
highest sensations of pleasure, but which were diffi-
cult of description. When the bags were exhaust-
 ed and taken from him, he suddenly started from
 his chair, and vociferating with pleasure, made to-

 wards those that were present, as he wished they

 should participate in his feelings. He struck gen-
 tly at Davy, and a, stranger entering the room at

 the same moment, he made towards him, and gave

him several blows, but he adds, it was more in the
 spirit of good-humour, than in that of anger. He
 then ran through different rooms in the house, and

 at last returned to the laboratory, somewhat more

 composed, although his spirits continued much ele-
 vated for some hours after the experiment ; he felt,
 however, no consequent depression, either in the

96 THE LIFE OF

evening or day following. Upon another occasion,

he states that his sensations were superior to any

thing he ever before experienced; his step was firm,
and all his muscular power increased. His nerves

were more alive to every surrounding impression ;

he threw himself into several theatrical attitudes,

and traversed the laboratory with a quick step,

while his mind was elevated to a most sublime

height : he says that " it is giving but a faint idea

of his feelings to say, that they resembled those

produced by a representation of an heroic scene on

the stage, or by reading a sublime passage in poe-

try, when circumstances contribute to awaken the

finest sympathies of the soul." The influence, how-

ever, of this inspiring agent appears to have been as

Itwraanrdssitoorybseravsesi,ts"effects  were vivid ; for he after-
                                  have  seldom lately experienced

Ivivid sensations. The pleasure produced by the

gas is slight and tranquil, and rarely feel sublime

emotions, or increased muscular power."

The first time that Mr. Clayfield breathed the

gas, it produced feelings analogous to those of in-
toxication. He was for some time unconscious of

existence, but at no period of the experiment were

his sensations agreeable ; a momentary nausea fol-

lowed, but unconnected with languor or head-ache.

   In a subsequent trial, it would appear that he

did experience certain thrillings which were highly

pleasurable.

   The account given by Dr. Kinglake agrees pretty
much with those already cited. He adds, however,
that the inspiration of the gas had the further effect

of reviving rheumatic irritations in the shoulder and

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  97

knee-joints, which had not been previously felt for

many months.

   Next appears Mr. Southey, the Laureate. The
reader will no doubt be prepared to hear that the

nitrous oxide transported him, at least, to the sum-

mit of Parnassus ; by no means : he laughed when
the bag was removed from his mouth, but it may be

fairly questioned whether this might not have been

an expression of joy at the terrors he had escaped ;

for he freely confesses that he could not distinguish
between the first feelings it occasioned, and an ap-

prehension of which he was unable to divest himself.
   The first time Mr. Coleridge inspired the nitrous

oxide, he felt a highly pleasurable sensation of

warmth over his whole frame : he adds, that the

only motion which he felt inclined to make, was that

of laughing at those who were looking at him : a

symptom as equivocal, perhaps, as that exhibited by

the Laureate.

  A number of other accounts are given, but those

already related are perhaps sufficient to establish the
fact, that the gas in question possesses an intoxi-
cating quality, to which the enthusiasm of persons

submitting to its operation has imparted a character
of extravagance wholly inconsistent with truth.

  It will be admitted that there must have been

something singularly ludicrous in the whole exhi-

bition. Imagine a party of grave philosophers, with

bags of silk tied to their mouths, stamping, roaring,

and laughing about the apartment ; it is scarcely

possible to conceive a richer subject for the pencil
of a Bunbury. We cannot then be surprised at any

terms of ridicule in which a stranger, witnessing

VOL. I.  H

98 THE LIFE OF

such an operation, might describe it. M.T.Fievee*

appears to have considered the practice as a national

vice, and whimsically introduces it amongst the cata-

logue of follies to which he considers the English

nation to be addicted.

Taking leave of these laughing philosophers, we

must now proceed to a much more serious branch
                                              " Having
of the subject   of Pneumatic   Medicine.
                 Davy, " that  no painful  effects were
observed," says

Iproduced by the application of nitrous gas to the

bare muscular fibre, began to imagine that this

gas might also be breathed with impunity, provided
it were possible in any way to free the lungs of

common air before inspiration, so as to prevent the

formation of nitrous acid.
   " On this supposition, during a fit of enthusiasm

Iproduced by the respiration of nitrous oxide,
resolved to endeavour to breathe nitrous gas : one

hundred and fourteen cubic inches of it were accord-

ingly introduced into the large mercurial air-holder ;
two small silk bags of the capacity of seven quarts
were filled with nitrous oxide.

  I" After a forced exhaustion of my lungs, my nose

being accurately closed, made three inspirations
and expirations of nitrous oxide in one of the bags,
in order to free my lungs, as much as possible, from
Iatmospheric oxygen ; then, after a full expiration of
the nitrous oxide,      transferred my lips from the

mouthpiece of the bag to that of the air-holder,
and, turning the stopcock, attempted to inspire the

nitrous gas. In passing through my mouth and

* Lettres sur 1'Angleterre, 1802.

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                    99

fauces, it tasted astringent and highly disagreeable ;
it occasioned a sense of burning in the throat, and

produced a spasm of the epiglottis, so painful as to

oblige me to desist immediately from attempts to

inspire it. After removing my lips from the mouth-

Ipiece, when opened them to inspire common air,

nitrous acid was immediately formed in my mouth,

which burnt the tongue and palate, injured the

teeth, and produced an inflammation of the mucous

membrane, which lasted for some hours.
   " As, after the respiration of nitrous oxide, a

small portion of the residual atmospheric air always

remained in the lungs mingled with the gas, so is it

probable that, in the experiment just related, a mi-

nute portion of nitrous acid was formed ; and, if so,

II perhaps owe the preservation of my life to the

circumstance ; for, supposing that had succeeded

in taking a fuh1 inspiration of nitrous gas, and even

Ithat it had not produced any positive effects, it is

not likely that should, by breathing nitrous oxide,
have so completely freed my lungs from it, as to
I Ihave prevented the formation of nitrous acid, when
again inspired common air.        never design again

to attempt so rash an experiment."

His attempt to breathe carburetted hydrogen gas

was   scarcely less terrific and  appalling.  respiration  of
                                    on the
   "  Mr. Watt's observations

diluted hydro- carbonate by man, and the experi-
ments of Dr. Beddoes on the destruction of animals

by the same gas, proved that its effects were highly

deleterious.

   " As it destroyed life, apparently by rendering

the muscular fibre inirritable, without producing

100 THE LIFE OF

Iany previous excitement, was anxious to compare

its sensible effects with those of nitrous oxide, which

Iat this time believed to destroy life by producing

         possible excitement.
          first experiment,
Ithe

   "
highest                        breathed for nearly

In the

a minute three quarts of hydro-carbonate, mingled

Avith nearly two quarts of atmospheric air.* It

produced a slight giddiness, pain in the head, and a
momentary loss of voluntary power ; my pulse was

Irendered much quicker and more feeble. These

effects, however, went off in five minutes, and had

Ino return of giddiness.        introduced into a

   " Emboldened by this trial,

silk bag four quarts of gas nearly pure, which was
carefully produced from the decomposition of water

by charcoal an hour before, and which had a very

stro"nMg yanfdriednisdagMrere.abJalemesms eTllo. bin, junior, being pre-

Isent, after a forced exhaustion of my lungs, the nose

being accurately closed, made three inspirations

and expirations of the hydro-carbonate. The first

inspiration produced a sort of numbness and loss

Iof feeling in the chest, and about the pectoral

muscles. After the second, lost all power of per-

ceiving external things, and had no distinct sensa-
tion, except that of a terrible oppression on the

Ichest. During the third expiration, this feeling

subsided, seemed sinking into annihilation, and

had just power enough to cast off the mouthpiece
from my unclosed lips.

  * " I believe it had never been breathed before by any individual

in a state so little diluted."

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  101

  " A short interval must have passed, during which
I respired common air, before the objects around

'/ IIme were distinguishable. On recollecting myself,
faintly articulated,       do not think shall die'
IPlacing my finger on the wrist, found my pulse

Ithread-like, and beating with excessive quickness.

In less than a minute, was able to walk, and the

painful oppression on the chest directed me to the

ope"nAaftire. r making a few steps, which carried me to

the garden,  I  my head    became giddy, my knees trem-
bled, and        had just   sufficient voluntary power to

throw myself on the grass. Here the painful feel-

ings of the chest increased with such violence as

Ito threaten suffocation. At this moment asked
Ifor some nitrous oxide. Mr. D wyer brought me a

mixture of that gas with oxygen, and breathed

it for a minute, and believed myself recovered.
   " In five minutes the painful feelings began

gradually to diminish ; in an hour they had nearly

Idisappeared, and felt only excessive weakness, and
a slight swimming of the head. My voice was very

Ifeeble and indistinct.

   " afterwards walked slowly for half an hour
with Mr. Tobin, and on my return was so much

stronger and better as to believe that the effects of

Ithe gas had entirely passed off; though my pulse
was 120, and very feeble.  continued without

pain for nearly three quarters of an hour, when the

giddiness returned with such violence as to oblige
me to lie on the bed ; it was accompanied with

nausea, loss of memory, and deficient sensation.

   " In about an hour and a half, the giddiness went

102 THE LIFE OF

off, and was succeeded by an excruciating pain in

the forehead, and between the eyes, with transient

pai"nsToinwathrdeschnesigt hatndtheexsteremafifteiecst.ions gradually di-

Iminished; and at ten no disagreeable feeling, ex-
cept weakness, remained.                  slept sound, and awoke

Iin the morning very feeble and very hungry. No

recurrence of the symptoms took place, and had

Inearly recovered my strength by the evening.

   " have been minute in the account of this ex-
periment, because it proves, that hydro-carbonate

         I                                produces diminution of
                                     is,
                                 is it
acts as a sedative ; that

vital action, and consequent debility, without pre-

viously exciting. There every reason to believe

that, had taken four or five inspirations, instead

of three, they would have destroyed life imme-

diately, without producing any painful sensation."
   The scientific and medical world are alike in-

debted to Davy for this daring experiment; and,

    the precautions suggests be properly attended

to, may become the means of preserving human
if               it

     it                 is

life. The experiment also valuable as affording

support to physiological views, with which its au-

thor was probably not acquainted.
   In
         the first place, mayit           b"ehyndercoe-scsaarrbyontaotea"pphreizree
some     of my readers, that the

spoken of, differs very little from the gas now so

generally used to illuminate our streets and houses.
We have just seen how deadly are its qualities, and

that even in     state of extreme dilution  will
              a                             it

affect our sensations. The question then necessa-       ?

rily suggests itself, how far this gas can be safely
introduced into the interior of our apartments

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  103

Did we not possess any direct evidence upon the
subject, the answer would be sufficiently obvious,
since it is impossible so to conduct its combustion,

that a portion shall not escape unburnt. Such is
the theory; but what is our experience upon the
subject? that pains in the head, nausea, and dis-

tressing languor, have been repeatedly experienced
in our theatres and saloons, by persons inhaling the

unburnt gas ; that the atmosphere of a room, al-

though spacious and empty, will, if lighted with

gas, convey a sense of oppression to our organs of

respiration, as if we were inhaling an air contami-

nated with the breath of a hundred persons.

   In the next place, Davy's experiment is impor-

tant, inasmuch as it proves that, in cases of asphyxia,
or suspended animation, there exists a period of

danger after the respiration has been restored, and
the circulation re-established, at which death may

take place, when we are the least prepared to ex-

pect it.
    Bichat has shown that, when dark-coloured blood

is injected into the vessels of the brain by means
of a syringe connected with the carotid artery, the
functions of the brain become immediately disturb-

ed, and in a short time entirely cease : the effect is

precisely similar, whether the dark-coloured blood

be transmitted to the brain by the syringe of the
experimentalist, or by the heart itself. Thus in
cases of asphyxia, the dark-coloured blood which

has been propelled through the vessels during the
suspension or imperfect performance of respiration,
acts like a narcotic poison upon the brain ; and no
sooner, therefore, does it extend its malign influence

104 THE LIFE OF

to that organ, than deleterious effects are produced,
and the animal, after apparent recovery, falls into a

state of stupor, the pupils of the eyes become di-
lated, the respiration laborious, the muscles of the
body convulsed, and it speedily dies, poisoned by its

own blood.

   We are much indebted to Mr.'Brodie for a series

of experiments in confirmation of these views ; and
a very interesting case occurred some time since,
in the neighbourhood of Windsor, which is well

Icalculated for their illustration. A corporal in the

Guards, whose name, if am not mistaken, was

Schofield, was seized with cramp as he was bathing
in the Thames, and remained for several minutes
under water. By judicious assistance, however, he

was recovered, and appeared to those about him to

be free from any danger, when he was attacked by
convulsions and expired. Had the respiration been
artificially supported at this period, so as to have
maintained the action of the heart until the black
blood had returned from the brain, the life of the

soldier might possibly have been saved.
   In the experiment which has given origin to

these reflections, Davy distinctly states, that after
having recovered from the primary effects of the
carburetted hydrogen gas, and taken a walk with
his friend Mr. Tobin, he was again seized with vio-
lent giddiness, attended with nausea and loss of
sensation. The imperfectly oxygenized or dark-co-

loured blood had evidently affected the brain, and

his life, at this period, was probably in greater jeo-
pardy than in any other stage of the experiment.

   Nothing daunted by the dangers to which the

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  105

preceding experiments had exposed him, Davy did

not allow more than a week to elapse before he

attempted to respire fixed air, or carbonic acid gas ;
but it was in vain that he made voluntary efforts

to draw it into the windpipe ; for, the moment the

epiglottis was raised a little, such a painful irritation

was induced as instantly to close it spasmodically on
the glottis ; and thus, in repeated trials, was he

prevented from taking a single particle of carbonic

acid into the lungs. When, however, the gas was
diluted with a little more than double its volume of

common air, he was enabled to breathe it for nearly
a minute, when it produced a slight degree of giddi-

ness, and an inclination to sleep.*

  It may perhaps appear extraordinary to the reader

of the "RESEARCHES," that although they were

published   not  more   than eighteen months after the
appearance   of
                 his "  Essays on Heat and Light," no

allusion is made in them either to his theory or to

his new nomenclature. In relating his experiments

upon Respiration, he employs the conventional Ian-

   * It would thus appear that carbonic acid, in its most concen-
trated form, may kill by exciting a spasmodic action, in which the

epiglottis is closed, and the entrance of air into the lungs altoge-
ther prevented. In a diluted form, it may destroy by its specific
influence upon the blood, which would seem to be of a highly

sedative character. Death produced by such an agent is probably
attended with little or no suffering. The younger Berthollet de-
stroyed his life by inclosing himself in an atmosphere of this de-

scription ; and on commencing his fatal experiment, he registered
all the successive feelings he experienced, which were such as
would have been occasioned by a narcotic: a pause, and then

an almost illegible word occurred : it is presumed that the pen
dropped from his hand, and he was no more.

106 THE LIFE OF

guage of the schools, and the word "phos-oxygen"
does not once occur in the volume. This is fully

explained in a communication made by him to Mr.
Nicholson, and which was printed in his Journal a

short time after the publication of his Essays in the

West Country Contributions ; in which he says,
" As facts have occurred to me with regard to the

Idecomposition of bodies, which had supposed to
Icontain light, without any luminous appearance,

beg to be considered as a sceptic with respect to my

Iown particular theory of the combinations of light,

until shall have satisfactorily explained those ano-

Imalies by fresh experiments. On account of this

scepticism, and for other reasons, shall in future

use the common nomenclature; excepting that, as

my discoveries concerning the gaseous oxide would

render it highly improper to call a principle, which
in one of its combinations is capable of being ab-
Isorbed by venous blood, and of increasing the
powers of life, azote,    shall name it, with Dr.

IPearson, Chaptal, and others, NITROGENE ; and the

gaseous oxide of azote shall call NITROUS OXIDE."
   The same
of his Third  feeling is  ex"pIrteswseoduldat   the conclusion
              Research.                        be easy to form

theories referring the action of blood impregnated
with nitrous oxide, to its power of supplying the

nervous and muscular fibre with such proportions
of condensed nitrogen, oxygen, light, or ethereal
fluid, as enabled them more rapidly to pass through

those changes which constitute their life; but we

are unacquainted with the composition of dead

organized matter ; and new instruments of experi-

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                   107

merit, and new modes of research, must be found,

before we can ascertain even our capabilities of dis-

covering the laws of life."

There is one circumstance connected with the

views entertained in this work which must not be

passed over without notice. In several passages

he advocates the theory of the atmosphere being a
chemical compound of oxygen and nitrogen ; where-

as, in later years, he was amongst the first to insist

upon its being simply a mechanical mixture of

these gases.

   In consequence of the highly deleterious experi-

ments which have been already described, and of

the constant labours of the laboratory, and the re-

peated inhalation of acid and other vapours, his

health began visibly to decline, and he retired into

Cornwall, where he informs us that "the associa-

tions of ideas and feelings, common exercise, a pure

atmosphere, luxurious diet, and a moderate indul-
gence in wine, in the course of a month, restored

him to health and vigour."

  I find an allusion to this visit in a letter from his

sister. " He had," she says, " written to his mother

of his intention to visit her, but before the post had

quitted Bristol, he was already on his way to Pen-
zance, and would have reached it before his letter,

had not his aunt, on whom he called in the neigh-

bouring town of Marazion, struck with his appear-

ance of ill health, insisted on his remaining there

till the next day, lest his mother should be doubly

alarmed at  haidsdsu, n"exTpheicsteodnevifsaictt  and altered   looks."
                                                                at the
Miss Davy                                          will serve,

108 THE LIFE OF

same time, to illustrate his attachment to home, and

the impetuosity of his mind, which never rested

till the object he proposed was accomplished."

The following letter is inserted in this place, for

the purpose of fixing the period at which he first
ascertained those new facts in Voltaic electricity,

which formed the basis of a future communication

to the Royal Society, and which may be said to

have paved the way to his grand discoveries in that
branch of science; the dawning of that glorious

day, which we shall presently view in all its splen-

dour and glory.

There is, moreover, something extremely interest-

ing in receiving from himself a simple and unadorn-

ed statement of    results, as  obthseeyrvastuiocnces-si-ve"lyTruptrhes-
sented themselves     to his

plucked as they are growing, and delivered to you

before their dew is brushed off."

                    TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

                                   Pneumatic Institution, October 20, 1800.

   BE assured, my respected friend, that your last

Iletter, though short, was highly gratifying to me.

At the moment it was brought to me, was about
to depart with King and Danvers on an excursion

to the banks of the Wye. Our design was to see
Tintern Abbey by moonlight, and it was perfectly

accomplished.

   After viewing for three hours all the varieties of
light and shade which a bright full moon and a
blue sky could exhibit in this beautiful ruin, and
after wandering for three days among the many-
coloured woods and rocks surrounding the river

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    109

between Monmouth and Chepstow, we arrived on

the fourth day at Bristol, having to balance against
the pleasure of the tour, the fatigue of a stormy
voyage down the Wye, across the mouth of the

Severn, and up the Avon.
   On analysing, after our return, specimens of the

air collected from Mon mouth, from the woods on

the banks of the Wye, and from the mouth of the

Severn, there was no perceptible difference ; they

were all of similar composition to the air in the

middle of Bristol ; that is, they contained about

twenty-two per cent, of oxygen. The air from the
bladders of some sea-weed, apparently just cast on

shore, at the Old Passage, likewise gave the same

results ; so that, comparing these experiments with

those made by Cavendish, Berthollet, &c. and by

myself on other occasions, at different tempera-

tures, in different weather, and with different winds,

I am almost convinced that the whole of the lower
stratum of the atmosphere is of uniform compo-

sition.

   No test can be more fallacious and imperfect
than nitrous gas, on account of the different com-

position of nitrous acid, formed in the different
Imanipulations of eudiometrical experiments.
The eudiometer that  have lately employed

gives, in a few minutes, the proportions of oxygen

without correction.

  IIn pursuing experiments on galvanism, during

the last two months, have met with unexpected

and unhoped-for success. Some of the new facts

on this subject promise to afford instruments capa-

ble of destroying the mysterious veil which Nature

110 THE LIFE OF

has thrown over the operations and properties of

Iethereal fluids.  have found, by numerous experi-
Galvanism

ments, to be a process purely chemical, and to depend

wholly on the oxidation of metallic surfaces, having

different degrees of electric conducting power.
   Zinc is incapable of decomposing pure water ; and

if the zinc plates be kept moist with pure water, the

galvanic pile does not act; but zinc is capable of
oxidating itself when placed in contact with water,

holding in solution either oxygen, atmospheric air,

or nitrous or muriatic acid, &c. : and under such

circumstances, the galvanic phenomena are produced,

and their intensity is in proportion to the rapidity

with which the zinc is oxidated.

The galvanic pile only acts for a few minutes,

when introduced into hydrogen, nitrogen, or hydro-

carbonate ; that is, only as long as the water between

its plates holds some oxygen in solution : immerse

it for a few moments in water containing air, and

it acts again.

  It acts very vividly in oxygen gas, and less so in

the atmosphere. When its plates are moistened by

marine acid, its action is very powerful, but infi-

nitely more so when nitrous acid is employed.

Five plates with nitrous acid gave sparks equal to
those of the common pile. From twenty plates the

Ishock was insupportable.
      had almost forgotten to mention, that charcoal

Iis a good galvanic exciter, and decomposes water,

like the metals, in the pile ; but must stop, with-

out being able to expatiate on the connection which

is now obvious between galvanism and some of the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  Ill

Iphenomena of organic motion. never consider the

subject without having forcibly impressed upon my
imagination your observations* on the science of

Ithe ethereal fluids, and cannot help flattering my-
Iself that this age will see your predictions verified.

  remain with sincere respect and affection,

                                        Yours,

HUMPHRY DAVY.

   That a work, of the character of the k< RE-

SEARCHES," replete with ingenious novelty, and
rich in chemical discovery, proceeding from the pen
of so young a man, should have excited very general
admiration in the philosophic world, is a circum-
stance that cannot surprise us ; but in a majority of
cases, precocious merit enjoys only an ephemeral
popularity ; the sensations it excites are too vivid
to be permanent, and the individual sinks into an
obscurity rendered ten times more profound by the
brilliancy of the flash which preceded it ; but every

event of Davy's life would appear as if created, and

directed for his welfare, by some presiding genius,
whose activity in throwing opportunities in his
way was rivalled only by the address with which he
converted them to his advantage. Fortune and
talent, then, were both equally engaged in accom-
plishing the elevation of Davy, and it is probable
that eminent success generally requires a combi-
nation of these elements for its production, and that

    * On conversing with Mr. Gilbert on the above passage, I

understand that it is an allusion to his opinion, that the discovery
of Galvanic power would ultimately lead to a knowledge of the
nature of light and heat.

                              THE LIFE OF

the maxim of Plautus is therefore as remote from
truth as that of Theophrastus, the one assigning all
to fortune, the other all to talent.

   The experiments to which allusions have been fre-
quently made during the present chapter, favourably
as they were received, might have shared the fate of
many other discoveries which did not admit of an
immediate and obvious application to the purposes
of common life ; for statistical value is a necessary
passport to popular favour. Fortunately, however,
for Davy, before the vivid impression produced by
his new work had lost the glow of novelty, Count
Rumford was anxiously seeking for some rising
philosopher, who might contribute his energies
towards the support, and farther increase, of the
chemical fame of the recently established " INSTI-
TUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN/'

   It is not surprising that his attention should have

been readily directed to one whose genius had been
so lately displayed, and whose views regarding
Caloric* were in such exact conformity with his
own opinions.

    * Mr. Gilbert no sooner discovered the tendency of Davy's
opinions respecting the immateriality of Caloric, than he urged
him to communicate them to Count Rumford, but he considered
himself pledged to Dr. Beddoes, and his Essays were accordingly
printed in the West Country Contributions. Count Rumford, it
may be observed, maintained that Caloric, like Phlogiston, was
merely a creature of the chemist's imagination, and had no real
existence. He considered heat as nothing more than the motions
of the constituent particles of bodies amongst themselves, an
hypothesis which has no claims to novelty, being perhaps one of
the most ancient on record. See his paper on Heat, Phil. Trans.
for 1804.

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  113

   As the philosophical public must feel a lively in-

terest in every incident connected with a transac-
tion so important to the interests of science, as that

Iby which Davy was placed in the chemical chair

of the Institution, am fortunate in being able,
through the kindness of his two friends, Mr. Thom-
son and Mr. Underwood, to present a clear and
satisfactory statement of all its circumstances and

details.

VOL. I.

114 THE LIFE OF

                     CHAPTER III.

Count Rumford negotiates with Mr. Underwood on the subject of

Davy's appointment to the Royal Institution. Terms of his

engagement communicated in a letter to Mr. Gilbert. Davy

arrives, and takes possession of his apartments. He receives

various mortifications. He is elected a member of the Tepida-

rian Society. Is appointed Lecturer instead of assistant. He

makes a tour in Cornwall with Mr. Underwood. Anecdotes.

His Poem on Spinosism. His letter to Mr. Gilbert, communi-

cating a galvanic discovery. He commences his first grand

course of lectures.  His brilliant success.  A letter from Mr.

Purkis. Davy's style criticised. His extraordinary method of

experimenting. Davy and Wollaston compared as experimen-

talists. The style of Davy as a lecturer and a writer contrasted.

   IT may be readily supposed that the prominent

situation held by Davy at Bristol, as well as the
merited celebrity of his writings, must have ren-
dered his name familiar to all the leading philoso-

phers of the day. It were vain, therefore, to en-

quire through what channel the echo of his fame
first reached the ear of Count Rumford ;* it is suffi-

    * Amongst other celebrated chemists who had become ac-
quainted with Davy at Bristol, and subsequently spoken of his
extraordinary genius, was Dr. Hope. He informs me that Count
Rumford had applied to him to find some chemist who would un-
dertake the office of lecturer at the Institution ; but that he failed

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  115

cient to state that Mr. Underwood, a gentleman

ardently attached to science, and devoted to the

interests of the Royal Institution, was amongst the
first to urge the expediency of inviting him to Lon-
don as a public lecturer. Mr. Underwood, in a
letter lately addressed to me from Paris, says, " In
consequence of several conversations with Count
Rumford, on the subject of Davy's superior talents,
and the advantages that would accrue to the Insti-

tution from engaging him as a lecturer, the Count
called upon me on the 5th of January 1801, having
received from the Managers of the Institution full

Ipowers to negotiate upon the subject. On this

occasion, however, thought it advisable to intro-
duce the Count to Mr. James Thomson, as being
the more eligible person to treat in behalf of Davy,
not only on account of his greater intimacy with

him, but because, not being a proprietor, he was
unconnected with the interests of the Institution."

   Mr. Thomson, who saw the prospect of honour
and emolument thus opened for his friend, after a
satisfactory interview with Count Rumford, imme-
diately wrote to Davy, with an earnest recommen-
dation that he should, without loss of time, come

to town, and conclude an arrangement thus auspi-

ciously commenced.

   Davy, with his characteristic ardour, answered

in discovering such a person as he could, with propriety, intro-

duce ; some time afterwards, however, he became acquainted with

Davy, and having soon perceived his talents, recommended him
without any hesitation to the patronage of the Count. This cir-
cumstance, combined with several others, no doubt might have

had its influence in deciding the fate of Davy.

                                   I2

116 THE LIFE OF

the letter in person. He was introduced to the Ma-
nagers, and the preliminary arrangements were soon
completed ; the nature of which is disclosed by him-
self in the following letter to Mr. Gilbert.

                                                            Hotwells, March 8, 1801.

  I CANNOT think of quitting the Pneumatic Insti-
I Itution, without giving you intimation of it in a

letter; indeed, believe should have done this
some time ago, had not the hurry of business, and
the fever of emotion produced by the prospect of
novel changes in futurity, destroyed to a certain
extent my powers of consistent action.

   You, my dear Sir, have behaved to me with great

Ikindness, and the little ability possess you have
Ivery much contributed to develope ; should there-
Ifore accuse myself of ingratitude, were to neglect
Ito ask your approbation of the measures have

adopted with regard to the change of my situation,
and the enlargement of my views in life.

   In consequence of an invitation from Count Rum-

Iford, given to me with some proposals relative to

the Royal Institution, visited London in the mid-

Idle of February, where, after several conferences

with that gentleman, was invited by the Managers
of the Royal Institution to become the Director of
their laboratory, and their Assistant Professor of

Ichemistry ; at the same time was assured that,
Iwithin the space of two or three seasons, should

be made sole Professor of Chemistry, still continu-
ing Director of the laboratory.

    The immediate emolument offered was sufficient
for my wants ; and the sole and uncontrolled use of

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  117

the apparatus of the Institution, for private experi-

ments, was to be granted me.

    The behaviour of Count Rumford, Sir Joseph
Banks, Mr. Cavendish, and the other principal ma-

nagers, was liberal and polite ; and they promised
me any apparatus that 1 might need for new ex-

periments.

   The time required to be devoted to the services
of the Institution was but short, being limited
chiefly to the winter and spring. The emoluments
to be attached to the office of sole Professor of Che-

mistry are great; and, above all, the situation is

permanent, and held very honourable.

   These motives, joined to the approbation of Dr.
Beddoes, who with great liberality has absolved me
from my engagements at the Pneumatic Institu-
tion, and the strong wishes of most of my friends in

ILondon and Bristol, determined my conduct.
   Thus am quickly to be transferred to London,

Iwhilst my sphere of action is considerably enlarged,

and as much power as could reasonably expect, or

even wish for at my time of life, secured to me

Iwithout the obligation of labouring at a profession.

   The Royal Institution will, hope, be of some

utility to society. It has undoubtedly the capabi-

lity of becoming a great instrument of moral and
intellectual improvement. Its funds are very great.

It has attached to it the feelings of a great number

of people of fashion and property, and consequently
may be the means of employing, to useful purposes,
money which would otherwise be squandered in
luxury, and in the production of unnecessary labour.

   Count Rumford professes that it will be kept dis-

118 THE LIFE OF

Itinct from party politics ; sincerely wish that such
Imay be the case, though fear it.* As for myself,
I shall become attached to it full of hope, with the

resolution of employing all my feeble powers to-

wards promoting its true interests.

  ISo much of my paper has been given to pure

egotism, that have but little room left to say any
thing concerning the state of science, and the public

Imind in town ; unfortunately, there is little to say.

  have heard of no important discoveries. In poli-
tics, nothing seems capable of exciting permanent
interest. The stroke of poverty, though severely

felt, has been a torpedo, benumbing all energy, and

not irritating and awakening as might have been
                            if
expected.
                               it it,
Here, at the Pneumatic Institution, the nitrous

oxide has evidently been of use. Dr. Beddoes                        is ; is

proceeding in the execution of his great popular

physiological work, which,               equals the plan he

holds out, ought to supersede every work of the

kind.

have been pursuing Galvanism with labour, and
*I
             Isome success.have been able to produce gal-

                I
vanic power from simple plates, by effecting on

them different oxidating and de-oxidating processes

but on this point cannot enlarge in the small re-
maining space of paper.

In England, politics so constantly mix themselves up with all

our institutions, while science unfortunately finds so few disciples

and patrons in the ranks of aristocracy, that every new society

viewed with jealousy and  party spirit.    Johnson says,  in his Life of
Addison " has been         suggested     that the Royal    Society was
           It

instituted soon after the Restoration, to divert the attention of the

people from public discontent." P.

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 119

   Your remark concerning negative Galvanism, and
de-oxidation, is curious, and will most probably hold

good.

  It will give me much pleasure to see your ma-

thematical Paper* in the Philosophical Transac-

tions, but it will be, unfortunately, to me the plea-

sure of Hind sympathy, though derived from the

consciousness that you ought to be acting upon,

and instructing the world at large.

  It will give me sincere pleasure to hear from you,

Iwhen you are at leisure. After the llth shall be
Iin town my direction, Royal Institution, Albe-
marle Street.    am, my dear friend, with respect

and affection,   Yours,

                                 HUMPHRY DAVY.

The first notice of Davy's name, in the Minute

Book of the Royal Institution, occurs in the Report

adopted at a Meeting of the Managers, on Monday
the 16th of February 1801.

"Resolved That Mr. Humphry Davy be en-

gaged in the service of the Royal Institution, in
the capacities of Assistant Lecturer in Chemistry,
Director of the Laboratory, and Assistant Editor

of the Journals of the Institution, and that he be

allowed to occupy a room in the house, and be fur-

nished with coals and candles ; and that he be paid
a salary of one hundred guineas per annum."
   On the        of March 1801,
" a room   16th                  after  reporting  that
            had  been prepared   and    furnished   for

Davy," the Minute proceeds to state that "Mr.

   * He alludes to some calculations connected with light, and the
imponderable fluids.

120 THE LIFE OF

Davy had arrived at the Institution on Wednesday

the llth of March, and taken possession of his si-

tuation."

   It is a curious fact, that the first impression pro-

duced on Count Rumford by Davy's personal ap-
pearance, was highly unfavourable to the young
philosopher, and he expressed to Mr. Underwood
his great regret at having been influenced by the
ardour with which his suit had been urged ; and
he actually would not allow him to lecture in the
Theatre, until he had given a specimen of his abi-
lities in the smaller lecture-room. His first lecture,

however, entirely removed every prejudice which
had been formed ; and at its conclusion the Count

emphatically exclaimed " Let him command any
arrangements which the Institution can afford." He

was accordingly, on the very next day, promoted
to the great Theatre.

   Davy's uncouth appearance and address subjected
him to many other mortifications on his first arrival
in London. There was a smirk on his countenance,
and a pertness in his manner, which, although aris-
ing from the perfect simplicity of his mind, were

considered as indicating an unbecoming confidence.
Johnson, the publisher, as many of my readers will
probably remember, was in the custom of giving

weekly dinners to the more distinguished authors
and literary stars of the day. Davy, soon after
his appointment, was invited upon one of these
occasions, but the host actually considered it ne-
cessary to explain, by way of apology, to his com-
pany, the motives which had induced him to in-
troduce into their society a person of such humble

       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      121

pretensions. At this dinner a circumstance occur-

red, which must have been very mortifying to the

young philosopher. Fuseli was present, and, as
usual, highly energetic upon various passages of

beauty in the poets, when Davy most unfortu-
nately observed, that there were passages in Milton
which he could never understand. " Very likely,

very likely, Sir," replied the artist in his broad Ger-

Iman accent, " but am sure that is not Milton's fault."

On the 7th of April, he was elected a member
of a society which consisted of twenty-five of the

most   violent republicans of the  day  ; it was called
       Tepidarian Society," from   the  circumstance of
the "

nothing but tea being allowed at their meetings,

which were held at Old Slaughter's Coffee House

in Saint Martin's Lane. To the influence of this

society, Mr. Underwood states that Davy was great-

ly indebted for his early popularity. Fame gathers

her laurels with a slow hand, and the most brilliant

talents require a certain time for producing a due

impression upon the public ; the Tepidarians ex-

erted all their personal influence to obtain an au-

dience before the reputation of the lecturer could

have been sufficiently known to attract one.

Although the acquaintance between Davy and

Count Rumford commenced so inauspiciously, they

very soon became friends, and mutually entertained

for each other the highest regard.

Davy's improved manners and naturally simple

habits, at this period, were highly interesting and

exemplary : towards his old friends he conducted

himself with the greatest amenity, and frequently

consulted them upon certain points connected with

                THE LIFE OF

"Ihis new station in society. The following anecdote
was communicated by Mr. Underwood.  intro-
duced him," says he, " to my old friend, the excel-

lent Sir Henry Englefield, who was the first intimate

acquaintance Davy had formed in the higher circles ;
he was received by him with all that warmth of

manner, and kindness of feeling, which so emi-

nently distinguished him. Shortly after this in-

troduction, Sir Harry sent him an invitation to

meet me at dinner. Davy found himself unable

to frame an answer to his satisfaction, and fearing

he might betray his ignorance of etiquette, ran to

my house, and greatly alarmed my mother by the

extreme anxiety he displayed, and the manner in

I Iwhich he entreated her to send me to him the mo-
ment returned.        went and found him cudgel-

ling his brains to produce this first attempt at fa-

shionable composition ; a dozen answers were on

his table, and he was in the highest degree excited

and annoyed."

  It would appear that, immediately after his arrival

at the Royal Institution, he entered upon the duties
of his station, and performed them so greatly to the
satisfaction of the Managers, that, at a Meeting held
on the first of June, not more than six weeks after-

wards, the following  Resolutions were passed.
   " Resolved That    Mr. Humphry Davy, Director

of the Chemical Laboratory, and Assistant Lecturer

in Chemistry, has, since he has been employed at
the Institution, given satisfactory proofs of his
talents as a Lecturer.

   " Resolved That he be appointed, and in future

denominated, Lecturer in Chemistry at the Royal

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  123

Institution, instead of continuing to occupy the
place of Assistant Lecturer, which he has hitherto

filled."

   From an examination of the Minute Book, it
appears that Dr. Garnett, whose health had long

been on the decline, resigned his professorship on

the 15th of June,* and that on the 6th of July in

the same year, Dr. Young was engaged as Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Editor of the Journals, and
general Superintendent of the House, at the salary
of 300/. per annum.

   With Dr. Garnett he had lived on terms of great

intimacy ; with his successor he associated with less

ease and freedom.

  At a meeting of the Managers, also held in July,

several Resolutions were passed to the following

effect.

   " Resolved That a Course of Lectures on the

Chemical Principles of the Art of Tanning be given

by Mr. Davy. To commence the second of Novem-
ber next ; and that respectable persons of the trade,
who shall be recommended by Proprietors of the

Institution, be admitted to these lectures gratis.
   "Resolved further That Mr. Davy have per-

mission to absent himself during the months of
July, August, and September, for the purpose of
making himself more particularly acquainted with
the practical part of the business of tanning, in
order to prepare himself for giving the above-men-
tioned course of lectures."

   Davy, it would appear, availed himself of the
permission granted to him by the above resolution

  * He delivered his farewell Lecture on the 9th of the same month.

                              THE LIFE OF

of the Managers, and during the interval visited his

native country.

   He had arranged with his friend Underwood to
make a tour through Cornwall; but as it was his
wish to remain at Bristol for a few days, on his way
to the West, it was agreed between them that they

should meet at Penzance.
   Davy, however, became impatient, and wrote

the following letter to his friend, a composition of
much wildness, and obnoxious to the suspicion of

Spinosism.

           MY DEAR UNDERWOOD,

   THAT part of Almighty God which resides in the
rocks and woods, in the blue and tranquil sea, in the
clouds and sunbeams of the sky, is calling upon thee
with a loud voice : religiously obey its commands,
and come and worship with me on the ancient altars
of Cornwall.

   1 shall leave Bristol on Thursday next, possibly

Ibefore, so that by this day week shall probably be
Iat Penzance. Ten days or a fortnight after, shall

expect 'to see you, and to rejoice with you.

   We will admire together the wonders of God,

rocks and the sea, dead hills and living hills covered
with verdure. Amen.

   Write to me immediately, and say when you
will come. Direct H. Davy, Penzance. Farewell,
Being of energy !

                    Your's with unfeigned affection,

                                                     H. DAVY.
    Mr. Underwood transmitted to me the above

letter with the following extract from his journal.

                    SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    125

  I" On the 25th went to Bristol, and on the 30th

arrived at Mrs. Davy's at Penzance. On the 1st of
August we set off on a pedestrian excursion, and
proceeded along the edge of the cliffs, round the
Land's End, Cape Cornwall, Saint Just, and Saint
Ives, to Redruth, and thence back to Penzance.

    " Two days afterwards we again started, and

trudged along the shore to the Lizard. Kynance

Cove had from the commencement of our intimacy
been a daily theme of his conversation. No epithets

were sufficiently forcible to express his admiration
at the beauty of the spot : the enthusiastic delight

with which he dwelt upon the description of the

Serpentine rocks, polished by the waves, and reflect-
ing the brightest tints from their surfaces, seemed

inexhaustible, and when we had arrived at the spot

he "apDpuearirnedg  absolutely entranced.  conversation  was
                    these excursions his

most romantic and poetical. His views of Nature,

and her sublime operations, were expressed without

reserve, as they rapidly presented themselves to his

imagination : they were the ravings of genius ; but

even his nonsense was that of a superior being."

  At the village of Mullion, a little incident occur-

red, which evinced the existence of that gastrono-

mic propensity which, in after years, displayed itself

in a wider range of operations. The tourists had,

on their road, purchased a fine large bass of a fisher-

man, with the intention of desiring the landlady to

dress it. On arriving at the inn, Mr. Underwood

retired into a room for the purpose of making some

notes in the journal he regularly kept. Davy had
disappeared. In the course of a few minutes a most

126 THE JJFE OF

 tremendous uproar was heard in the kitchen, and
the indignant vociferations of the hostess, which,
even with all the advantages of Cornish recitative,

was not of the most melodious description, became
fearfully audible. Davy, it seems, had volunteered
his assistance in making the sauce and stuffing for

the aforesaid bass ; and had he not speedily retreat-
ed, his services would have been rewarded, not

according to the scientific practice of appending a
string of letters to his name, but in conformity
with the equally ancient custom of attaching a
certain dishonourable addition to the skirts of his

Ijacket.
      have observed that his letter to Mr. Underwood

betrayed a tincture of Spinosism. It may be here

remarked, that during the year 1801 he composed
a poem, which he arbitrarily distinguished by that
appellation, singularly opposed to the tenor of the

Isentiments. Through the kindness of Mr. Green -

ough possess a copy of it in its original state, for
it was subsequently altered, and published in a col-
lection, edited by Miss Johanna Baillie ; and still
more recently, it underwent farther corrections, and

Iwas printed for private circulation in the form in

which shall here introduce it.

       Lo ! o'er the Earth the kindling spirits pour
           The flames of life, that bounteous Nature gives;

        The limpid dew becomes the rosy flower ;
            The insensate dust awakes, and moves, and lives.

      All speaks of change : the renovated forms
          Of long forgotten things arise again.

        The light of suns, the breath of angry storms,
           The everlasting motions of the main ;

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     127

These are but engines of the Eternal Will,

   The One Intelligence ; whose potent sway
Has ever acted, and is acting still,

   Whilst stars, and worlds, and systems, all obey:

Without whose power, the whole of mortal things
   Were dull, inert, an unharmonious band ;

Silent as are the harp's untuned strings
   Without the touches of the poet's hand.

A sacred spark, created by His breath,

   The immortal mind of man his image bears ;

A spirit living midst the forms of death,

    Oppress'd but not subdued by mortal cares

A germ, preparing in the winter's frost,

   To rise and bud and blossom in the spring;
An unfledged eagle by the tempest tost,

   Unconscious of his future strength of wing :

The child of trial, to mortality,
   And all its changeful influences given :

On the green earth decreed to move and die;
   And yet by such a fate prepared for Heaven.

Soon as it breathes, to feel the mother's form
   Of orbed beauty, through its organs thrill ;

To press the limbs of life with rapture warm,
   And drink of transport from a living rill :

To view the skies with morning radiance bright,
    Majestic mingling with the ocean blue,

Or bounded by green hills, or mountains white ;
    Or peopled plains of rich and varied hue :

The nobler charms astonish' d to behold

    Of living loveliness, to see it move,

 Cast in expression's rich and varied mould,
     Awakening sympathy, compelling love :

128 THE LIFE OF

         The heavenly balm of mutual hope to taste,
             Soother of life ; affection's bliss to share,

           Sweet as the stream amidst the desert waste,
             As the first blush of arctic daylight fair : -

          To mingle with its kindred, to descry
             The path of power in public life to shine ;

          To gain the voice of popularity ;
             The idol of to-day, the man divine :

         To govern others by an influence strong
             As that high law, which moves the murm'ring main ;

          Raising and carrying all its waves along,
             Beneath the full-orb'd moon's meridian reign :

         To scan how transient is the breath of praise ;

           A winter's zephyr trembling on the snow,

         Chill'd as it moves ; or as the northern rays,
             First fading in the centre, whence they flow :

         To live in forests mingled with the whole
            Of natural forms, whose generations rise

         In lovely change, in happy order roll

              On land, in ocean, in the glittering skies :

         Their harmony to trace The Eternal Cause
             To know in love, in reverence to adore

         To bend beneath the inevitable law,
              Sinking in death ; its human strength no more :

         Then, as awakening from a dream of pain,
             With joy its mortal feelings to resign ;

         Yet all its living essence to retain,
             The undying energy of strength divine :

         To quit the burdens of its earthly days,
             To give to Nature all her borrow'd powers ;

          Ethereal fire to feed the solar rays,
              Ethereal dew to glad the earth in showers.

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.          129

   The following letter was written from London,
after his return from his Cornish excursion.

         TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR,         Royal Institution, Nov. 14, 1801.
IAFTER leaving Cornwall in August,
                                    spent

Iabout three weeks in Bristol, and at Stowey, so

that did not arrive in London until the 20th of

ISeptember.

   On my arrival found that Count Rumford had
altered his plans of absence, and had left London

on that very day for the Continent, purposing to
return in about two months. He is now at Paris,

Iand in about a fortnight we expect him here.
        shall soon have an opportunity of submit-

Iting Captain Trevit heck's boiler to his observation,

and in my next letter shall give you his opinion
of it.

   You of course have read an account of Dr. Her-

schel's experiments on the heat-making rays ; from
some late observations it appears, that there are

other invisible rays beyond the violet ones, pos-
sessed of the chemical agency of Light. Senne-
bier ascertained some time ago that the violet

rays blackened muriate of silver in three seconds ;
whereas the red rays required, for this effect, twenty
minutes. Hitter and Dr. Wollaston have found

that beyond the violet rays there is exerted a strong
deoxidating action. Muriate of silver placed in the
spectrum is not altered beyond the red rays ; but it
Iis instantly blackened when placed on the outside
of the violet rays.  purpose to try whether the

VOL. i.              K

I130 THE LIFE OF
           (i.
invisible deoxidating rays will produce light, when
                   a
absorbed by solar phosphorus.
    The most curious galvanic facts lately noticed,I

are the combustion of gold, silver, and platina. Pro-
fessor Tromsdorf, by connecting the ends of a
moderately strong battery with gold and silver leaf,
produced the combustion of them with vivid light.

In repeating the experiment on a thin slip of

Iplatina, have produced the same effect.

  I yesterday ascertained rather an important fact,

namely, that a galvanic battery may be constructed

without any metallic substance! By means of ten
pieces of well-burnt charcoal, nitrous acid, and

water, arranged alternately in wine-glasses, I pro-

duced all the effects usually obtained from zinc,

silver, and water.

   The Bakerian Lecture by Dr. Young, our Lec-
turer on Natural Philosophy, is now reading before
the Royal Society. He attempts to revive the
doctrine of Huygens and Euler, that light depends
upon undulations of an ethereal medium. His

proofs e. his presumptive proofs) are drawn from
some strong and curious analogies he has discovered

between Light and Sound,

       shall strongly hope, now the Peace has arrived,
to see you soon in London, as you proposed tour
through the Continent; indeed, you should fix
your permanent residence in London, where alone

you can do what you ought instruct and delight
numbers of improved men.

                         am, my friend, yours

            With unfeigned esteem and respect,
                                            HUMPHRY DAVY.

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                  131

Although during 1801 Davy had given some

desultory Lectures, his splendid career cannot be

said to have commenced until the following year,

when on the 21st of January he delivered his Intro-

ductory Lecture to a crowded and enlightened

audience in the Theatre of the Royal Institution ;

which was afterwards printed at the request of a

respectable proportion of the Society.

  It contains a masterly view of the benefits to be

derived from the various branches of science. He

represents the Chemist as the Ruler of all the

elements that surround us, and which he employs

either for the satisfaction of his wants, or the grati-

fication of his wishes. Not contented with what is

to be found on the surface of the earth, he describes

him as penetrating into her bosom, and even of

searching the depths of the ocean, for the purpose

of allaying the restlessness of his desires, or of ex-

tending and increasing the boundaries of his power.

   In examining the science of Chemistry, with

regard to its great agency in the improvement of

society, he  "oUffenrlsesstheanfyollogwreinagt  almost prophetic
remarks.                                        physical changes

should take place upon the globe, the permanency

of the Arts and Sciences is rendered certain, in con-

sequence of the diffusion of knowledge, by means
of the invention of Printing; and by which those

words which are the immutable instruments of

thought, are become the constant and widely dif-

fused nourishment of the mind, and the preservers

of its health and energy.
   " Individuals influenced by interested motives or

false views, may check for a time the progress of

             K2

132 THE LIFE OF

knowledge; moral causes may produce a momen-
tary slumber of the public spirit ; the adoption of
wild and dangerous theories, by ambitious or de-
luded men, may throw a temporary opprobrium on
literature; but the influence of true philosophy will
never be despised ; the germs of improvement are
sown in minds, even where they are not perceived ;
and sooner or later, the spring-time of their growth

must arrive.

   " In reasoning concerning the future hopes of the

human species, we may look forward with confidence
to a state of society, in which the different orders
and classes of men will contribute more effectually
to the support of each other than they have hitherto
done. This state, indeed, seems to be approaching
fast ; for, in consequence of the multiplication of the
means of instruction, the man of science and the

manufacturer are daily becoming more assimilated
to each other. The artist, who formerly affected to

despise scientific principles, because he was incapable

of perceiving the advantages of them, is now so far
enlightened as to favour the adoption of new pro-
cesses in his art, whenever they are evidently con-
nected with a diminution of labour ; and the increase
of projectors, even to too great an extent, demon-
strates the enthusiasm of the public mind in its

sea"rcThheaftaerrtsimanpdrovsecmienecnets., also, are in a high degree
cultivated and patronized by the rich and privileged
orders. The guardians of civilization and of refine-
ment, the most powerful and respected part of
society, are daily growing more attentive to the
realities of life, and giving up many of their unne-

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           133

cessary enjoyments, in consequence of the desire to
be useful, are becoming the friends and protectors of

the   labouring part of the  community.     and of labour,
      The unequal division
   "                         of property

the differences of rank and condition amongst man-

kind, are the sources of power in civilized life its

moving causes, and even its very soul. In consider-

ing and hoping that the human species is capable of

becoming more enlightened and more happy, we can

only expect that the different parts of the great

whole of society should be intimately united to-

gether, by means of knowledge and the useful
arts ; that they should act as the children of one

great parent, with one determinate end, so that

no power may be rendered useless no exertions

thrown   away.       we  do  not  look  to  distant  ages,
         this view,
   " In

or amuse ourselves with brilliant though delusive
dreams, concerning the infinite improveability of

man, the annihilation of labour, disease, and even

death, but we reason by analogy from simple facts,

we consider only a state of human progression aris-

ing out of its present condition, we look for a time
that we may reasonably expect FOR A BRIGHT

DAY, OF WHICH WE ALREADY BEHOLD THE DAWN."

The extraordinary sensation produced amongst

the members of the Institution by this first course

of lectures, has been vividly described by various

persons who had the good fortune to be his audi-

tors ; and foreigners have recorded in their travels

the enthusiasm with which the great English che-

mist had inspired his countrymen.

The members of the Tepidarian Society, sanguine

134 THE LIFE OF

in the success of their child, for so they considered

Davy, purposely appointed their anniversary fes-
tival on the day of his anticipated triumph. They

were not disappointed in their hopes ; and their
dinner was marked by every demonstration of hila-

rity. In the evening, Davy accompanied by a few

friends, attended, for the first time in his life, a mas-

querade which was given at Ranelagh.

IOn the following day, he dined with Sir Harry
Englefield.  have a copy of the invitation, ad-

dressed to Mr. Underwood, now before me.

DEAR UNDERWOOD,

IfDAVY, covered with glory, dines with me to-day
at five.     you could meet him, it would give me

great pleasure.            Yours truly,
                               H. C. ENGLEFIELD.
   Tilney Street, Friday.

  At this dinner, Sir Harry wrote a request to Davy

to print his Lecture, which was signed by every one
present, except Mr. Underwood, who declined, from
the apprehension that the signature of so intimate a

friend might give to that which was a spontaneous
homage to talent, the appearance of a previously

Iconcerted scheme.
       shall here weave into my narrative some ex-
tracts from several letters, with which Mr. Purkis,'
one of the earliest friends of Davy, has lately fa-

voured me.

  I" On his first appointment at the Royal Insti-

tution, was specially introduced to him by a com-

Imon friend, Thomas Poole, Esq. of Nether Stowey

in Somersetshire ; and continued in habits of friend-

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      135

ship with him during a great portion of his life,

though somewhat less intimately during the last
I Ifew years.
Ideath :      loved him living   lament his early

   " The      shall ever honour his memory.          of Lec-
              sensation created by his first course

tures at the Institution, and the enthusiastic admi-

ration which they obtained, is at this period scarcely
to be imagined. Men of the first rank and talent,

    the literary and the scientific, the practical and

the theoretical, blue-stockings, and women of fa-

shion, the old and the young, all crowded eagerly

crowded the lecture-room. His youth, his simpli-

city, his natural eloquence, his chemical knowledge,

his happy illustrations and well-conducted experi-

ments, excited universal attention and unbounded

applause. Compliments, invitations, and presents,
were showered upon him in abundance from all

quarters; his society was courted by all, and all

app"eaOrneed  proud of his acquaintance.
              instance of attention is particularly recall-
ed to my memory. A talented lady, since well

known in the literary world, addressed him anony-

mously in a poem of considerable length, replete

with delicate panegyric and genuine feeling. It

displayed much originality, learning, and taste : the

language was elegant, the versification harmonious,

the sentiments just, and the imagery highly poe-

tical. It was accompanied with a handsome orna-

mental appendage for the watch, which he was

requested to wear when he delivered his next lec-

ture, as a token of having received the poem, and

pardoned the freedom of the writer. It was long

before the fair authoress was known to him, but

 136 THE LIFE OF

 they afterwards became well acquainted with each

 other."

   I should not redeem the pledge given to my

Ireaders, nor fulfill the duties of an impartial bio-

 grapher, were to omit acknowledging that the

manners and habits of Davy very shortly under-
went a considerable change. Let those who have

 vainly sought to disparage his excellence, enjoy the
triumph of knowing that he was not perfect ; but
it may be asked in candour, where is the man of
twenty-two years of age, unless the temperature of

his blood were below zero, and his temperament as

dull and passionless as the fabled god of the Brah-
mins, who could remain uninfluenced by such an
elevation? Look at Davy in the laboratory at
Bristol, pursuing with eager industry various abs-
tract points of research ; mixing only with a few
philosophers, sanguine like himself in the investi-
gation of chemical phenomena, but whose sphere
of observation must have been confined to them-

selves, and whose worldly knowledge could scarcely
have extended beyond the precincts of the Insti-
tution in which they were engaged. Shift the
scene behold him in the Theatre of the Royal
Institution, surrounded by an aristocracy of intel-
lect as well as of rank ; by the flowers of genius,
the elite of fashion, and the beauty of England,
whose very respirations were suspended in eager

expectation to catch his novel and satisfactory elu-

cidations of the mysteries of Nature. Could the
author of the Rambler have revisited us, he would

certainly have rescinded the passage in which he

say s < All appearance of science is hateful to

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           137

women ; and he who desires to be well received by
them, must qualify himself by a total rejection of
all that is rational and important ; must consider

learning as perpetually interdicted, and devote all
his attention to trifle, and all his eloquence to com-

pliment."

  It is admitted that his vanity was excited, and his

ambition raised, by such extraordinary demonstra-
tions of devotion ; that the bloom of his simplicity

was dulled by the breath of adulation ; and that,

losing much of the native frankness which consti-
tuted the great charm of his character, he unfor-
tunately assumed the garb and airs of a man of
                             if,
fashion ; let us not wonder  under such circum-
                                                                                   :
stances, the inappropriate robe should not always

have fallen in graceful draperies.

  At length, so popular did he become, under the

auspices of the Duchess of Gordon and other leaders

of high fashion, that even their soirees were con-

sidered incomplete without his presence; and yet

these fascinations, strong as they must have been,

never tempted him from his allegiance to Science

never did the charms of the saloon allure him from

the pursuits of the laboratory, or distract him from

the duties of the lecture-room. The crowds that

repaired to the Institution in the morning were, day

after day, gratified by newly devised and highly

illustrative experiments, conducted with the utmost

address, and explained in language at once perspi-

cuous and eloquent.

He brought down Science from those heights

which were before accessible only to few, and
                             ;

                                         a
placed her within the reach of all he divested the

138 THE LIFE OF

goddess of all severity of aspect, and represented

her as attired by the Graces.

  It is perhaps not possible to convey a better idea
of the fascination of his style, than by the relation

of the following anecdote. A person having ob-

served the constancy with which Mr. Coleridge

attended these lectures, was induced to ask the poet

Iwhat attractions he could find in a study so un-        "
connected with     his  known     "ptuorsiunictrse. ase         attend
Davy's lectures,"  he   replied,                            my stock

of metaphors."

But, as Johnson says, in the most general ap-

plause some discordant voices will always be heard ;

and so was it upon the present occasion. It was

urged by several modern Zoili, that the style was

far too florid and imaginative for communicating

the plain lessons of truth ; that he described objects

of Natural History by inappropriate imagery, and

that violent conceits frequently usurped the place

of philosophical definitions. This was Boeotian cri-
ticism ; the Attic spirits selected other points of

attack : they rallied him on the ground of affecta-

tion, and whimsically represented him as swayed by

a mawkish sensibility, which constantly betrayed

him into absurdity. There might be some show of

justice in this accusation : The world was not large

enough to satisfy the vulgar ambition of the con-

queror, but the minutest production of nature

afforded ample range for the scrutinizing intelli-

gence of the philosopher ; and he would consider a

particle of crystal with so delicate a regard for its

minute beauties, and expatiate with so tender a tone

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  139

of interest on its fair proportions, as almost to con-
vey an idea that he bewailed the condition of neces-
sity which for ever allotted it so slender a place in
the vast scheme of creation.

   After the observations which have been offered

Iwith regard to the injurious tendency of metaphors

in all matters relating to science, may probably be
charged with inconsistency in defending Davy from

the attacks thus levelled against his style. We
need not the critic to remind us that the statue of a

ILysippus may be spoiled by gilding ; but would

observe that the style which cannot be tolerated in
a philosophical essay, may under peculiar circum-
stances be not only admissible, but even expedient,
in a popular lecture. " Neque ideo minus efficaces
sunt orationes nostrce quia ad aures judicantium cum
voluptate perveniunt. Quid enim si hifirmiora horum
temporum templa credas, quia non rudi ccemento, et

informibus tegulis exstruuntur ; sed marmore nitent
et auro radiantur ?"

   Let us consider, for a moment, the class of per-

sons to whom Davy addressed himself. Were they
students prepared to toil with systematic precision,
in order to obtain knowledge as a matter of neces-
sity? No they were composed of the gay and

the idle, who could only be tempted to admit
instruction by the prospect of receiving pleasure,

they were children, who could only be induced to

swallow the salutary draught by the honey around
the rim of the cup.

   It has been well observed, that necessity alone

can urge the traveller over barren heaths and snow-

140 THE LIFE OF

topped mountains, while he treads with rapture

along the fertile vales of those happier climes where

Ifevery breeze is perfume, and every scene a picture.

        Science can be promoted by increasing the
number of its votaries, and by enlisting into its

service those whom wealth and power may render

valuable as examples or patrons, there does not

exist a class of philosophers to which we are more

largely indebted than to popular lecturers, or to

those whose eloquence has clothed with interest,
subjects otherwise severe and uninviting. How
many disciples did Mineralogy acquire through the

lectures of Dr. Clarke at Cambridge, who may

truly be said to have covered a desert with verdure,
and to have raised from barren rocks flowers of

every hue and fragrance ! In the sister university,
what an accession of strength and spirit have the

animated discourses of Dr. Buckland brought to the

ranks of Geologists ! To judge fairly of the influ-

ence of a popular style, we should acquaint our-

Iselves with the effects of an opposite method ; and
if an appeal be made to experience,  may very

safely abide the issue. Dr. Young, whose pro-
found knowledge of the subjects he taught, no one

will venture to question, lectured in the same thea-

tre, and to an audiences imilarly constituted to that

which was attracted by Davy, but he found the

number of his attendants diminish daily, and for

no other reason than that he adopted too severe and

didactic a style.*

* From the following minute it would appear, that Dr. Young's

connection with the Royal Institution was but of short duration.

It will be remembered that his appointment took place on July

6, 1801.                             "Resolved

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       141

   In speaking of Davy's lectures as mere specimens
of happy oratory, we do injustice to the philoso-
pher. Had he merely added the Corinthian foliage
to a temple built by other hands, we might have com-
mended his taste, and admired his talent of adapta-

tion, and there our eulogium must have ended ; but
the edifice itself was his own ; he dug the materials
from the quarry, formed them into a regular pile,
and then with his masterly touch added to its strength
beauty, and to its utility grace.

   In addition to these morning lectures, we find

that he was also engaged in delivering a course in
the evening ; of which the following notice is ex-
tracted from one of the scientific journals of the time.
" On the 25th, Mr. Davy commenced a course of

lectures on Galvanic phenomena. Sir Joseph Banks,
Count Rumford, and other distinguished philoso-
phers, were present. The audience were highly gra-

tified, and testified their satisfaction by general and

rep"eaMterd.  applause.  appears  to be very  young,  ac-

              Davy, who

quitted himself admirably. From the sparkling in-

telligence of his eye, his animated manner, and the
tout ensemble, we have no doubt of his attaining a

very distinguished eminence."

   From a Minute entered on the Records of the

Institution, it appears that, at a meeting of Mana-
gers held on the 31st of May 1802, it was moved by
Sir Joseph Banks, and seconded by Mr. Sullivan,

   "That Mr. Humphry Davy be for the future

  " Resolved That Dr. Young be paid the balance of two years'

complete salary, and that his engagement with the Institution ter-
minate from this time July 4, 1803."

142 THE LIFE OF

styled Professor of Chemistry to the Royal Insti-

tution."

  A sufficient proof of the universal feeling of ad-

miration which his lectures had excited.
   The success of his exertions is communicated by

him to his early friend, in the following letter.

             TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

DEAR FRIEND,

  ISINCE the commencement of the Session at the

Institution, have had but few moments of leisure.
The composition of a first course of lectures, and

the preparation for experiments, have fully occu-

pied my time ; and the anxieties and hopes con-

nected with a new occupation have prevented me

from paying sufficient attention even to the com-

Imon duties and affections of life. Under such cir-
cumstances,  trust you will pardon me for having

suffered your letters to remain so long unanswered.
In human affairs, anticipation often constitutes hap-

Ipiness : your correspondence is to me a real source

of pleasure, and, believe me, would suffer no op-
portunity to escape of making it more frequent and

regular.

  IMy labours in the Theatre of the Royal Institu-

tion have been more successful than could have

hoped from the nature of them. In lectures, the

effect produced upon the mind is generally transi-
tory ; for the most part, they amuse rather than

instruct, and stimulate to enquiry rather than give

information. My audience has often amounted to

four and five hundred, and upwards ; and amongst

them some promise to become permanently attach-

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                               143

ed to Chemistry.  This science is much the fashion

of the day.

Amongst the latest scientific novelties, the two

new planets occupy the attention of Astronomers,

while Natural Philosophers and Chemists are still

employed upon Galvanism.

   In a paper lately read before the Royal Society,
Dr. Herschel examines the magnitudes of the bodies

discovered by Mr. Piazzi and Dr. Olbers. He sup-

poses the apparent diameter of Ceres to be about

22", and that of Pallas, 17" or 13", so that their real

diameters are 163, and 95 or 71 English miles
How small ! The Doctor thinks that they differ

from planets in their general character, as to their

diminutive size, the great inclination of their orbits,

the coma surrounding them, and as to the proximity
of their orbits. From comets, in their want of their

eccentricity, and any considerable nebulosity. He

Iproposes to call them Asteroids.
      mentioned to you in a former letter the great

Ipowers of Galvanism in effecting the combustion
of metals.  have lately had constructed for the

laboratory of the Institution, a battery of immense
size : it consists of four hundred plates of five inches

in diameter, and forty, of a foot in diameter. By

means of    have been enabled to inflame cotton,
        I1
            iIt,                fuses platina wire,

                                                                 ;

                                           it

                                                                                               ;

                                                            it it
sulphur, resin, oil, and ether
and makes red hot and burns several inches of iron

wire of -300th of an inch in diameter                                                           easily

causes fluid substances, such as oil and water, to

boil, decompounds them, and converts them into
            am now examining the agencies of upon
gases.

certain substances that have not as yet been decom-

144 THE LIFE OF

Iposed, and in my next letter hope to be able to
Igive you an account of my experiments.

     shall hope soon to hear that the roads of England
are the haunts of Captain Trevitheck's dragons.

IYou have given them a characteristic name.
      wish any thing would happen to tempt you to

visit London. You would find a number of persons

very glad to see you, with whose attentions you

could not be displeased. With unfeigned respect,
                                     Yours sincerely,
                                                    H. DAVF.

  It is perhaps not possible to imagine a greater

contrast, than between the elegant manner in which
Davy conducted his experiments in the theatre, and
the apparently careless and slovenly style of his
manipulations in the laboratory : but in the one
case he was communicating knowledge ; in the other,
obtaining it. Mr. Purkis relates an anecdote very
characteristic of this want of refinement in his work-

ing habits. "On one occasion, while reading over

to me an introductory lecture, and wishing to ex-
punge a needless epithet, instead of taking up the
pen, he dipped his forefinger into the ink-bottle,
and thus blotted out the unmeaning expletive."

  It was his habit in the laboratory, to carry on

several unconnected experiments at the same time,
and he would pass from one to the other without
any obvious design or order : upon these occasions
he was perfectly reckless of his apparatus ; breaking
and destroying a part, in order to meet some want
of the moment. So rapid were all his movements,

that, while a spectator imagined he was merely

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   145

making preparations for an experiment, he was ac-

tually obtaining the results, which were just as accu-

rate as if a much longer time had been expended.
With Davy, rapidity was power.

The rapid performance of intellectual operations

was a talent which displayed itself at every period

of his life. We have heard with what extraordi-

nary rapidity he read at the age of five years ; and

we now learn that his chemical enquiries were con-

ducted with similar facility and quickness.

His early friend Mr. Poole bears his testimony to

the existence of the same quality in the following
Ipassage, extracted
         from               had
favour of receivingfrom  From
               a letter           lately the
                                 my earliest
               him. "
Iknowledge of my admirable friend, consider his

most striking characteristic to have been the quick-

ness and truth of his apprehension. It was a power

of reasoning so rapid, when applied to any subject,

Ithat he could hardly be himself conscious of the

process ; and it must, think, have been felt by

him, as it appeared to me, pure intuition. I used

Ito say to him, * You understand me before half

understand myself ?'

  I" recollect on our first acquaintance, he knew
Ibut litt'e of the practice of agriculture.
                                             was at

that time a considerable farmer, and very fond of

Ithe occupation. During his visits in those days,

was at first something like his teacher, but my pupil

soon became my master both in theory and practice."

The chemical manipulations of Wollaston and

Davy offered a singular contrast to each other, and

might be considered as highly characteristic of the
temperaments and intellectual qualities of these

VOL. I.        .L

146 THE LIFE OF

remarkable men. Every process of the former was
regulated with the most scrupulous regard to micro-
scopic accuracy, and performed with the utmost

neatness of detail. It has been already stated with

what turbulence and apparent confusion the experi-
ments of the latter were conducted ; and yet each
was equally excellent in his own style ; and, as
artists, they have not unaptly been compared to

Teniers and Michael Angelo. By long discipline,
Wollaston had acquired such power in commanding
and fixing his attention upon minute objects, that
he was able to recognise resemblances, and to distin-

guish differences, between precipitates produced by
re-agents, which were invisible to ordinary observers,
and which enabled him to submit to analysis the
minutest particle of matter with success. Davy,
on the other hand, obtained his results by an intel-
lectual process, which may be said to have consist-
ed in the extreme rapidity with which he seized
upon, and applied, appropriate means at appropriate
moments.

    Many anecdotes might be related in illustration
of the curiously different structure of the minds of
these two ornaments of British Science. The rea-
der will, in the course of these memoirs, be fur-
nished with sufficient evidence of the existence of

Ithose qualities which have assigned to Davy ;

another biographer will no doubt ably illustrate
those of Dr. Wollaston.

   I shall only observe, that to this faculty of mi-

nute observation, which Dr. Wollaston applied with
so much advantage, the chemical world is indebted
for the introduction of more simple methods of

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  147

experimenting,    for the substitution of a few glass

tubes, and plates of glass, for capacious retorts and

receivers, and for the art of making grains give the

results which previously required pounds. A fo-

reign philosopher once called upon Dr. Wollaston

with letters of introduction, and expressed an
anxious desire to see his laboratory. " Certainly,"

he replied ; and immediately produced a small tray

containing some glass tubes, a blow-pipe, two or
three watch-glasses, a slip of platinum, and a few

test bottles.

Wollaston appeared to take great delight in show-

ing by what small means he could produce great

results. Shortly after he had inspected the grand
galvanic battery constructed by Mr. Children, and

had witnessed some of those brilliant phenomena

of combustion which its powers produced, he acci-

dentally met a brother chemist in the street, and

seizing his button, (his constant habit when speak-
ing on any subject of interest,) he led him into

a secluded corner ; when taking from his waistcoat

pocket a tailor's thimble, which contained a galva-
nic arrangement, and pouring into it the contents
of a small phial, he instantly heated a platinum wire

to a white heat.

   There was another peculiarity connected with
Wollaston's habit of minute observation : it enabled

him to press into his service, at the moment, such

ordinary and familiar materials as would never have

occurred to less observing chemists. Mr. Brande

relates an anecdote admirably calculated to exem-

plify this habit. He had called upon Dr. Wollas-

ton to consult him upon the subject of a calculus ;

                  L2

148 THE LIFE OF

    it will be remembered that neither phosphate of
lime, constituting the ( bone earth' species, nor the

ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, commonly called
the ' triple phosphate,' is per se fusible ; but that
when mixed, these constitute the 'fusible calculus'

which readily melts before the blow-pipe. Dr.
Wollaston, on finding the substance under exami-

nation refractory, took up his paper-folder, and

scraping off a fragment of the ivory, placed it on
the specimen, when it instantly fused.*

   Having contrasted the manipulations of Davy,
as exhibited in the theatre, with those performed
by him in the laboratory, it may, in this place,
be interesting to offer a few remarks upon the dif-
ference of his style as a lecturer and as a writer.

IWhatever diversity of opinion may have been en-

tertained as to the former, believe there never
was but one sentiment with respect to the latter.
There is an ethereal clearness of style, a simpli-
city of language, and, above all, a freedom from
technical expression, which render his philosophi-
cal memoirs fit studies and models for all future

chemists. Mr. Brande, in a late lecture delivered
before the members of the Royal Institution, very
justly alluded to this latter quality of his writings,
and forcibly contrasted it with the system of Ber-
zelius, of whom it is painful to speak but in terms
of the most profound respect, and yet it is impossi-

ble not to express a deep regret at this distinguished

   * I have lately been informed that the idea of constructing an

instrument like the Camera Lucida, first suggested itself to Dr.

Wollaston, on his noticing certain phenomena occasioned by a
crack in the glass before which he was shaving himself.

        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        149

chemist's introduction of a system of technical

expressions, which from its obscurity is calculated

to multiply rather than to correct error, and from

its complications, to require more labour than the

science to which it administers : to apply the quaint
metaphor of Locke, " it is no more suited to im-
prove the understanding, than the move of a jack
is to fill our bellies."

   From the readiness with which some continental

chemists have adopted such terms, and from the
spirit in which they have defended them, one might

almost be led to suspect that they believed them,

like the words used by the Magi of Persia, to
possess a cabalistic power. Davy foresaw the in-
jury which science must sustain from such a prac-

tice, and endeavoured, both by precept and exam-

ple, to discountenance it.

   With regard to the introduction of a figurative

and ornamental style into memoirs purely scientific,

no one could entertain a more decided objection ;
and in his " Last Days," he warns us against the

pra"ctIince.detailing the results of experiments, and in

giving them to the world, the chemical philosopher

should adopt the simplest style and manner; he will

avoid all ornaments, as something injurious to his

subject, and should bear in mind the saying of the

first king of Great Britain, respecting a sermon

which was excellent in doctrine, but overcharged

with    poetical allusions and figurative   language,
" that  the tropes and metaphors of the    speaker were

like the brilliant wild flowers in a field of corn, very

pretty, but which did very much hurt the corn."

150 THE LIFE OF

            CHAPTER IV.

Davy makes a tour with Mr. Purkis, through Wales. Beautiful
   phenomenon observed from the summit of Arran Benllyn. Let-
   ter to Mr. Gilbert. Journal of the Institution. Davy's papers

   on Eudiometry, and other subjects. His first communication to
   the Royal Society, on a new galvanic pile. He is proposed as a
   Fellow, and elected into the Society. His paper on astringent
   vegetable substances, and on their operation in tanning leather.

       His letter to Mr.Poole He is appointed Chemical Lecturer to
   the Board of Agriculture. He forms friendships with the Duke
   of Bedford, Mr. Coke, and many other celebrated agriculturists.

       Attends the sheep-shearing at Holkham and Woburn. Com-

   poses a Prologue to the et Honey-Moon/'

    AFTER the fatigues and anxieties of his first

session, Davy sought relaxation and repose amidst
the magnificent scenery of Wales. The following
letter will serve more fully to exhibit the enthu-

siasm he experienced in contemplating Nature in

her wild and .simplest forms.

            TO SAMUEL PURKIS, ESQ.

MY DEAR FRIEND,  Matlock, August 15, 1802.
IHAD been alone, and perfectly independent as
Ito my plans, should probably have written to you
Ilong ago.
            should have begged you to hasten

your departure, so that we might have rejoiced

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              151

together in Wales, under the influence of that

moon which is now full in all its glory ; for Derby-
Ashire, taken as a whole, has not pleased me.
                                               few

beautiful valleys, placed at the distance of many

miles from each other, do not compensate for the
almost uniform wildness and brown barrenness of

the hills and plains ; and in the watering places, there

is little amongst the living beings to awaken deep
moral feelings, or to call the nobler powers of the

mind, which act in consequence of sympathy, into

existence.

  I have longed for the mountain scenery, and for

the free inhabitants of North Wales ; and even the

majestic valleys of the Wye and the Derwent have

been to me but typical of something more perfect

in beauty and grandeur.

  Whenever it shall seem fitting to you, I shall be

prepared for our long contemplated journey, and do

not delay your departure; before the 21st would
be more agreeable to me than after that period ; and
then we shall be able to view the horns of the next

Imoon, where they are most beautiful.
        have enquired much concerning Dove-dale,

Isince have been here, and, from the most accurate
Iaccounts, am inclined to believe that it is inferior,

in point of sublime scenery, to Chee Tor, near Bake-
well, and in beauty, to the valley of the Great Tor,

I Iin which am now writing. On the whole, think
your best plan will be to meet me at Matlock,
which you must see, and then, in our route to Bux-
ton, we can visit the valley of the Wye, and the

most noble Chee Tor.
IConcerning the excursion of Dove-dale,
                                               am

152 THE LIFE OF

undecided, and it shall depend upon you to deter-

mine with regard to it.

   As one great object in our excursions is to view

INature and man in their most simple forms, and to

gain a temporary life of new impressions, submit
to you whether it will not be best to steer clear of

towns, cities, and civilized society, in which, for the

most part, we can see what we have only seen

Ifbefore.

       we visit Sir Joseph Banks, it certainly should

be only en passant : and to see that most excellent

personage, and to be obliged to quit him imme-
diately, will be at least painful ; for the respectful

feelings he produces in the mind are always modi-

fied by affection.
I have no room to give you the quantity of
Iinformation that
                      have gained concerning the

places and people of Wales ; this shall serve for our

Derbyshire chat. I thank you much for your last
kind letter, which gave me high pleasure. You

possess the true spirit of composition, which embo-
                      I am, &c.
dies facts in words.

                      H. DAVY.

  I am informed by Mr. Purkis, that in the latter

end of this summer, he made a pedestrian tour with
Davy, through North and South Wales, and he has
transmitted to me the following account of this
excursion. " We visited every place possessing any
remains of antiquity, any curious productions of
nature or art, and every spot distinguished by ro-

mantic and picturesque scenery. Our friend's diver-

sified talents, with his knowledge of Geology, and

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.              153

Natural History in general, rendered him a most

delightful companion in a tour of this description.

Every mountain we beheld, and every river we

crossed, afforded a fruitful theme for his scientific

remarks. The form and position of the mountain,

with the several strata of which it was composed,

always procured for me information as to its charac-

ter and classification ; and every bridge we crossed

invariably occasioned a temporary halt, with some

appropriate observations on the productions of the

river, and on  the diversion of  angling.     in North
               of our morning     excursions
   " In one

Wales, we ascended the summit of Arran Benllyn,

a celebrated mountain, inferior only to Snowdon and

Cader Idris, a few miles from the lake of Bala.

Here we were fortunate in beholding a scene of

extraordinary sublimity, seldom witnessed in this

climate. From the top of this mountain we looked

down, about mid-day, on a deep valley eight or ten

miles in length, and as many in breadth, the whole

of which, for a considerable height from the sur-

face of the ground, was filled with beautiful clouds,

while the atmosphere around the summit on which

we stood was perfectly clear, and the sky above us

of a deep blue colour. The clouds in the valley

were in irregular, gentle undulations, dense, com-

pact, and continuous, of that kind which is denomi-

nated by Meteorologists cirro-cumulus, and by the

vulgar, icoolpack clouds, such as are often seen in

the higher regions on a fine summer's day. The

sun shone with great brilliancy, and illumined their
various forms with silver, grey and blue tints of

exquisite beauty. As there was scarcely a breath

154 THE LIFE OF

of air stirring below the mountain, this aggregation
of clouds, probably occasioned by some electrical

agency, remained fixed and stationary, as if iden-

tified with the valley. The higher parts of most of

the surrounding hills were enveloped in mist, above

which the tops of Snowdon and Cader Idris towered

distinctly visible, and appeared like small islands
rising out of the sea. This scene altogether was one
of inexpressible magnificence and grandeur, filling
the mind with awe and rapture. We seemed to
feel ourselves like beings of a higher order in a
celestial region, looking down on the lower world

with conscious superiority.

   "After sitting and ruminating on this sublime

spectacle for two or three hours, we left the summit
of the mountain with reluctance, and, slowly de-

scending, rested at intervals, and often cast a long-

ing",  lingering look behind.       inn at Bala,  while
       On reaching our comfortable

waiting for dinner, Davy walked about the room,

and, as if by inspiration, broke out in a beautiful

impassioned apostrophe on the striking scene we

had so recently witnessed. It was in a kind of un-

measured blank verse, highly animated and descrip-

Itive, at once poetical and philosophical. At the

conclusion of this eloquent effusion, endeavoured

to recollect and commit it to writing, but I could

not succeed, and Davy was too modest to assist my

memory.

   " In a tour through North Wales, where the few

small inns have seldom any spare rooms, different

parties are often obliged to sit in the same apart-
ment, and to eat at the same table. Hence we

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  155

were occasionally introduced to characters of various
descriptions, some of whom gratified us by their
agreeable qualities, while others disgusted us by
their ignorance and impertinence. On one occa-
sion, after a heavy shower of rain in the middle of
August, we were drying our clothes by the fire in
the little Inn at Tan y Bwlch, when the landlord

requested us to admit a gentleman, who was very

wet. A young man, of pleasing appearance and

manner, was then introduced, and after some com-

mon-place observations, we sat down to dinner.
The stranger was evidently a man of education
and acquirements, and after the cloth had been

removed, he began to discourse very fluently on
scientific subjects. He talked of oxygen and
hydrogen, of hornblende, and the Grawacke of
Werner, and geologists, in the most familiar tone

of self-complacency.
   " Davy's youth, simplicity of manner, and cau-

tious concealment of superior knowledge, not excit-

ing constraint, our companion was naturally induced
to deliver his opinions with the utmost freedom

and confidence on all subjects. We commenced on

poetry and painting ; the sublime and beautiful ;
then proceeded to mineralogy, astronomy, &c. and
occasionally digressed on topics of mirth and hu-
mour, so that the evening was passed with general

satisfaction.

  I" When Davy had retired to rest, and was left
Ialone with our companion, enquired how he liked

my friend, and whether he considered him a pro-
ficient in science, and versed in chemistry and geo-

logy? He answered coolly, that * he appeared to be

156 THE LIFE OF

rather a clever young man, with some general scien-
tific knowledge.' He then asked his name, and

when I announced 'Davy, of the Royal Institution,'

the stranger seemed thunderstruck, and exclaimed,

I6 Good God ! was that really Davy ? How have

exposed my ignorance and presumption !' It is

scarcely necessary to add, that at the breakfast

table the next morning, he talked on subjects of
science with less volubility than on the preceding

evening."

   After Davy's return from this expedition, he
wrote the following letter.

TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR,  Royal Institution, Oct. 26, 1802.
IIT is long since have had the pleasure of hear-
ing from you. You probably received a hasty letter

Ithat wrote to you in the beginning of the sum-
Imer. Since that period, have been idling away

Imuch of my time in Derbyshire and North Wales.

   Till very lately, had hopes of being able to

Ispend a few weeks of the autumn in Cornwall, but
   now find that it will not suit with my occupa-
Itions. Not having it in my power to see you, you

may believe that am most anxious to hear from

you.

   We hear, at this time, in London of comparative-
ly few scientific novelties. The wonders of revo-
lutionized Paris occupy many of our scientific men ;

and the summer and autumn are not the working
seasons in great cities. The rich and fashionable

part of the community think it their duty to kill

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 157

time iii the country, and even philosophers are more

or less influenced by the spirit of the times.

   In the last volume of the Manchester Memoirs,

i. e. the fifth, are some papers of Mr. Dalton on the

Constitution of the Atmosphere ; on the expansive

Ipowers of Steam ; and on the dilatation of Elastic

Fluids by Heat. As far as can understand his

Isubjects, the author appears to me to have executed
them in a very masterly way.      wish very much

to have your judgment upon his opinions, some of

which are new and very singular.

Have you yet seen the theory of my colleague,

Dr. Young, on the undulations of an Ethereal Me-

dium as the cause of Light ? It is not likely to be

a popular hypothesis, after what has been said by

Newton concerning it. He would be very much

flattered if you could offer any observations upon

it, whether for or against it. The paper is in the

last volume of the Transactions.

  I Ibelieve mentioned to you in a former letter

that Terra Japonica, or Extractum Catechu, con-

tained a very large proportion of the tanning prin-

ciple. My friend Mr. Purkis, an excellent prac-

tical tanner, has lately tried some experiments upon

Iit in the large way. It answers very well, and
am now wearing a pair of shoes, the leather of one

of which was tanned with oak-bark, and that of the

other with Terra Japonica ; and they appear to be

equally good. We are in great hopes that the East

India Company will consent to the importation of

this article. One pound of it goes at least as far as
nine pounds of oak-bark ; and it could certainly be

158 THE LIFE OF

rendered in England for less than four-pence the

pound : oak-bark is nearly one penny per pound.

   The Zoonic acid, which M. Berthollet supposed

to be a peculiar acid, has been lately shown by M.

Thenard to be only acetous acid, holding a peculiar
animal matter in solution.

Gregory Watt is just returned from the Conti-

nent, where he has passed the last fifteen months.

IHe has been much delighted with his excursion,
but his health is at present bad.  trust, however,

that English roast-beef and English customs will

speedily restore it.

   We are publishing, at the Royal Institution, a
Journal of Science, which contains chiefly abridged
accounts of what is going on in different parts of

Europe, with some original papers ; and in hopes
that its diffusion may become more general, we

I Ihave fixed its price at one shilling. As soon as

   have an opportunity, will send you the last

Inumbers of it.

      am beginning to think of my Course of Lec-
tures for the winter. In addition to the common

Icourse of the Institution, have to deliver a few

lectures on Vegetable Substances, and on the con-

Inection of Chemistry with Vegetable Physiology,
before the Board of Agriculture.   have begun

some experiments on the powers of soils to absorb
Imoisture, as connected with their fertility.
                                               have,

for this purpose, made a small collection of those of

Ithe calcareous and secondary countries, and wish
Ifvery much for some specimens from the granitic
and schistose hills of Cornwall.   you could, with-

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                  159

out much trouble, cause to be procured from your

Iestates different pieces of uncultivated soil, of about

a pound weight each, should feel much obliged to
you. They should be accompanied by specimens of

the stone or strata on which they lie.

  I am, dear Sir, with affection and respect, yours,

                                                     H. DAVY.

Of the Journals alluded to in the above letter, it

would seem that Davy and Dr. Young were the

joint editors. The former appears both as a re-
viewer and an original writer, and in each capacity
we recognise the peculiarities of his genius : in the

one case, by the quickness with which he detects

error ; and in the other, by the avidity with which

he apprehends truth.

  It will not be uninteresting to take a short review

of his original communications, especially as the
work has become extremely scarce ; indeed, as it
was published in numbers, it is very probable that

only a few copies have escaped the common fate of

periodicals.  paper is  entitled,  " An Account  of a

   His first

New Eudiometer," and has for its principal object

the recommendation of the solution of the green

muriate, or sulphate of iron, impregnated with

nitrous gas ; the knowledge of the properties of

which, in absorbing oxygen gas, arose out of those

experiments to which an allusion has been already

made.*

This test is prepared by transmitting a current of

nitrous gas through a saturated solution of the salt

              * See page 88.

160 THE LIFE OF

of iron. As the absorption of the gas proceeds, the
solution acquires the colour of a deep olive brown ;
and when the impregnation is completed, it appears
opaque and almost black. The process is appa-
rently owing to a simple elective attraction ; in no

case is the gas decomposed ; and under the exhaust-

ed receiver it resumes its elastic form, leaving the
fluid with which it was combined, unaltered in its

properties. The test, therefore, can only be regard-
ed as a convenient modification of that of Priestley,
in which the nitrous gas was presented to the at-
mospheric air to be examined, without the inter-
vention of any third body.

   The only apparatus required for the application
of the test, as suggested by Davy, is a small gra-
duated tube, having its capacity divided into one
hundred parts, and a vessel for containing the fluid.
The tube, after being filled with the air to be ex-
amined, is introduced into the solution, and shaken

in contact with it; when the air will be rapidly

diminished in volume, and the whole of its oxygen,
in a few minutes, condensed into nitrous acid.

   By means of this test, Davy informs us that he
examined the atmosphere in different places, with-
out being able to ascertain any notable difference in
the proportions of its component parts.

   Twenty-eight years have elapsed since the publi-
cation of this paper ; and yet, amidst the rapid pro-
gress of discovery, Eudiometry has not been able
even to modify the results it has given us ; but the
reader will be pleased to remember, that by these
tests it is only professed to show the relative pro-
portions of oxygen in air ; the salubrity of an at-

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      161

mosphere depends upon many other causes, espe-

cially its condition with regard to moisture, which,
in a variety of ways, exerts an influence upon the
structures of the body.

   In this Journal we also find several original com-

munications from Davy on galvanic phenomena,

which will be noticed on a future occasion. There

is likewise a paper of considerable interest, entitled,

"An Account of a method of copying Paintings

upon Glass, and of making Profiles, by the agency
of Light upon Nitrate of Silver, invented by T.

Wedgwood, Esq. : with Observations by H. Davy."
   In the first place, he gives an account of the

experiments of Mr. Wedgwood, and then, with

his usual sagacity, extends our knowledge of the

subject by his own researches.

Chemists had been long acquainted with the fact,

that white paper, or white leather, moistened with a

solution of the nitrate of silver, although it does not
undergo any change when kept in a dark place, will

speedily change colour on being exposed to day-

light ; and that, after passing through different

shades of grey and brown, it will at length become

nearly black. These alterations in colour take place

more speedily in proportion as the light is more in-

tense. In the direct beams of the sun, two or three

minutes are sufficient, in the shade, several hours

are required, to produce the full effect ; and light

transmitted through differently coloured glass, acts

upon it with different degrees of intensity. It is

found, for instance, that red rays, or the common

sunbeams passed through red glass, have very little
action upon it ; yellow and green are more effica-

VOL. I.  M

162 THE LIFE OF

cious ; but blue and violet produce the most decided
and powerful effects. Davy observes that these facts
were analogous to those which were long ago ob-
served by Scheele, and confirmed by Senebier.

   To Mr. Wedgwood, however, belongs the merit
of having first applied them for the ingenious pur-
pose of copying engravings, &c. His first attempt
was to copy the images formed by the camera ob-
scura ; but they were found to be too faint to pro-
duce, in any moderate time, the necessary changes
upon the nitrate of silver. With paintings on glass
he was more successful ; for the copying of which,
the solution should be applied on leather, which is
more readily acted upon than paper. When a sur-

face thus prepared is placed behind a painting on

glass, exposed to the solar light, the rays trans-
mitted through the differently coloured surfaces pro-
duce distinct tints of brown or black, sensibly dif-
fering in intensity, according to the shades of the

picture ; and where the light is unaltered, the colour
of the nitrate becomes deepest.

   Besides this application of the method of copying,

there are many others. It may be rendered subser-

vient for making delineations of all such objects as
are possessed of a texture partly opaque, and partly
transparent ; such, for instance, as the woody fibres
of leaves, and the wings of insects ; for which pur-
pose, it is only necessary to cause the direct solar
light to pass through them, and to receive the sha-
dows upon prepared leather.

   To Davy we are indebted for an extremely beau-
tiful application of this principle, that of copying
small objects produced by means of the solar micro-

SIR HUMPHHY DAVY.  163

    pe. For the success, however, of this experi-
ment, it is necessary that the prepared leather should

be placed at a small distance only from the lens.

   The copy of a painting, or the profile of an
object, thus obtained, must of course be preserved

in an obscure place ; for all the attempts that have
been made to prevent the uncoloured parts of the

copy from being acted upon by light, have hitherto
been unsuccessful. They have been covered with
a thin coating of fine varnish ; and they have been

submitted to frequent washings ; yet, even after

this latter operation, it would seem that a sufficient
quantity of the active matter will still adhere to
the white parts of the surface, and cause them to
become dark on exposure to the rays of the sun.
From this circumstance, Davy thinks it probable
that a portion of the metallic oxide abandons its

acid, to enter into union with the animal or vegeta-
ble substance, so as to form with it an insoluble

compound.

  It will be remembered that Davy had made some

early experiments on the collision of flint and steel
in vacuo:* we find in the Royal Institution Jour-
nal a farther investigation of the subject ; when he

admits that, although sparks are not produced under
these circumstances, yet that a faint light becomes

visible. In many instances, he refers the phenome-

non to electricity excited by friction, more especially
in the instances of glass, quartz, sugar, &c. which

give out light when rubbed. In other cases, he
considers it probable that a species of phosphores-

* See page 67-
       M2

 164 THE LIFE OF

 cence may be occasioned by the heat; and he thinks
 that there may occasionally take place an actual ig-
 nition of abraded particles, in consequence of their
 imperfect conducting power : a supposition which
 he thinks receives strong support from an experi-
 ment of Mr. Wedgwood, who found that a piece
 of window-glass, when brought into contact with a
 revolving wheel of grit, became red hot at its point
 of friction, and gave off luminous particles that
 were capable of inflaming gunpowder and hydro-

 gen gas.

    We shall also find in this volume an account of

 some observations which he made upon the motions

of small pieces of acetate ofpotash, during their so-
lution, upon the surface of water. After the in-
teresting and extraordinary observations of Mr.

Brown, every phenomenon of this kind is calculated

to excite attention.

    Davy states that the fragments were agitated by
very singular motions during the time of their solu-
tion, sometimes revolving for a second or two, and
then moving rapidly backwards and forwards in
various directions. He considers the phenomenon
as evidently connected with the rapid process of

solution, since the motions became weaker as the

point of saturation approached. The thinnest film
of oil, or of ether, wholly destroyed the effect.
Those pieces which were most irregular in their
forms underwent, by far, the most rapid motions ;
from which, he thinks, it would appear, that the
phenomenon was in some measure owing to changes
in the centre of gravity of the particles during their
solution. The projectile motions, however, would

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                               165

seem to depend upon the continual descent of a

current of the saline solution from the agitated par-

ticle, in consequence of which, the surrounding
water would press upon different parts of it with
different degrees of force. Besides which, an in-

crease of temperature, which was found to accom-

pany the solution of the salt, might in a degree

modify the effect.

   His first communication  to the Royal Society was
entitled " An Account of    some Galvanic Combina-

tions, formed by an arrangement of single metallic

plates and fluids, analogous to the Galvanic Appara-

tus of M. Volta."

  It was read on the 18th of June 1801, and will

be examined in a future part of these memoirs.

The certificate, recommending him as a candidate

for the honour of a seat in the Royal Society, was

read for the first time on the 21st of April 1803 ;

and having been duly suspended in the meeting-

room, during ten sittings of the Society, according

to the statute, he was put to the ballot, and elected

on the 17th of November in the same year.

   As every circumstance connected with the pro-

Igress of Davy will be hereafter viewed with con-

siderable interest, shall here introduce the form of

the certificate, and record the names of those Fellows

who sanctioned it by their signatures.

   " HUMPHRY DAVY, ESQ. Professor of Chemistry
in the Royal Institution of Great Britain, a gentle-
man of very considerable scientific knowledge, and
author of a paper in the Philosophical Transactions,
being desirous of becoming a Fellow of the Royal

166 THE LIFE OF

Society, we the undersigned do from our personal
knowledge recommend him as deserving that ho-
nour, and as likely to prove an useful and valuable

member.

(Signed) MORTON,                   W. G. JORDAN,
                                   JOHN WALKER,
         R. J. SULLIVAN,
                                   RICHARD CHENEVIX,
              KINNAIRD,
                                   ALEXANDER CRICHTON,
              CHARLES HATCHETT,    HENRY C. ENGLEFIELD,
                                   CHARLES WILKINS,
                THOMAS YOUNG,      GIFFIN WILSON,
                                   GILBERT BLANE,
              WEBB SEYMOUR,
             W. G. MATON,          EDWARD FORSTER."
              THOMAS RACKETT,
              JAMES EDWARD SMITH,

   On the 7th of July, in the same year, he was
elected an Honorary Member of the Dublin Society,

having been proposed from the chair by the Vice-
President, General Vallancey.

  It has been stated that, shortly after Davy's arri-

val at the Institution, the Managers, being anxious
to encourage all investigations of a practical ten-
dency, directed him to deliver a series of lectures on

the art of tanning. With this view, he entered

into a scientific examination of the subject, in which
he was encouraged by Sir Joseph Banks, the liberal
patron and promoter of all useful knowledge, who
supplied him with various materials for experiment.

   The subject had recently attracted considerable

attention, both at home and abroad, but much still

remained to be effected; and Davy succeeded in

adding many important facts to the general store.

  In the Royal Institution Journal already noticed,

we find several communications from him, under
the titles of " Observations on different methods of

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.        16?

obtaining Gallic Acid ;" " On the processes of Tan-

ning," &c. All the new facts however, discovered in

the course of his experiments, were embodied in a

long and elaborate memoir, which was read before

the Royal Society on the 24th of February 1803,

and   published  in the Philosophical Transactions for
that
      year. It   was entitled " An Account of some

Experiments and Observations on the constituent

parts of certain astringent Vegetables, and on their
operation in Tanning. By Humphry Davy, Pro-

fessor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution. Com-

municated by the Right Honourable Sir Joseph
Banks, P. R. S."

Although Seguin and Proust had already exa-

mined many of the properties of that vegetable prin-

ciple to which the name of tannin had been given,

yet its affinities had been but little examined ; and

the manner in which its action upon animal matters

may be modified by combination with other sub-

stances, had been still less considered.

   His principal design in this enquiry was to eluci-
date the practical part of the art of tanning skins,

so as to form leather ; but in pursuing this object,

he was necessarily led into chemical investigations

connected with the analysis of the various bodies

containing the tanning principle, and the peculiar

properties and value of each.

The vegetable principles that had been regarded

as more usually present in astringent infusions, are

tannin, gallic acid, and extractive matter. In at-

tempting to ascertain the relative proportions of

tannin contained in different infusions, Davy was

led, after various trials, to prefer the generally re-

168 THE LIFE OF

ceived method of precipitating by means of gelatine
procured from isinglass. In using this test, how-

 ever, he discovered that several precautions were
necessary ; that the solution should be quite fresh,

    that it should be as much saturated as may be

 compatible with its fluidity, and that the precipi-
tate obtained should be reduced to a uniform degree
of dryness.

   It is evident that if the quantity of gelatine in

 the solution, employed as the precipitant, be known,
it will only be necessary to ascertain the weight of
the precipitate produced by it, in order to learn
the absolute proportion of tannin present in any

specimen.

    He next directed his attention to the discovery
of some method by which the gallic acid might be
separated from extractive matter, in cases where they
exist in combination, but the enquiry was not suc-
cessful ; for, as he observes, it is difficult to render
the extractive insoluble, so as to separate it, without

at the same time decomposing the gallic acid. It is

true that aether will dissolve the latter, without

exerting much action upon the former ; but then,

he adds, whenever the gallic acid is in large quan-
tities, this method will fail, " in consequence of that
affinity which is connected with mass." Here then
he adopts that celebrated theory of Berthollet,*
which he afterwards so vigorously and successfully

attacked.f

    * Recherches sur les Lois de 1'Affinite. Mem. de 1'fnstitut

National, Tome in. p. 5.

  t The masterly manner in which he combated the successive

arguments of Berthollet upon this question is admirable. In the

first place, he attacked the theory upon .general principles, and
then exposed the fallacy of the several experiments adduced in its

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      169

   As general tests of the respective quantities of
these two principles (gallic acid and extractive
matter), lie employed the solutions of the salts of
alumina and those of the peroxidated salts of iron.
The former of these precipitates extractive, without

materially acting upon gallic acid, which is thrown

down by the latter: the greatest care, however,
must be taken not to add the iron in excess, as in

that case the black precipitate formed will be re-

dissolved, and an olive-coloured and clear fluid be

only obtained.
   He details the results of a number of experiments

made upon galls, and ascertains the relative propor-

tions of their several elements ; and he proves that

tannin may exist in such a state of combination in

different substances as to elude the test of gelatine ;
in which case, to detect its presence, it is necessary
to have recourse to the action of the diluted acids.

support. " Were the proposition correct, that in all cases of decom-

position in which two bodies act upon a third, that third is divided be-

tween them in proportion to their relative affinities, and their quantities

of matter, it is quite evident that there could be scarcely any defi-
nite proportions : a salt crystallizing in a strong alkaline solution

would be strongly alkaline ; in a weak one, less alkaline ; and in
an acid solution it would be acid." With regard to glasses and

alloys, adduced  by M.    Berthollet as   compounds of    indefinite pro-
portions, Davy               " It is not  easy to prove,  in such cases,
                 answers

that the elements are chemically combined, for the points of fu-

sion of alkali, glass, and certain metallic oxides, are so near to

each other, that transparent mixtures of them may be formed."
The experiment upon which M. Berthollet laid great stress, viz.

that a large quantity of potash will separate a small quantity of

sulphuric acid from sulphate of baryta, Davy invalidates in a most
complete manner. He says " This experiment was made in con-

tact with the atmosphere, in which carbonic acid is always present ;

and carbonate of potash and sulphate of baryta mutually decom-

pose each other."

170 THE LIFE OF

   Sir Joseph Banks had concluded, from the sensi-
ble properties of catechu* or terra Japonica, that it
was rich in tannin : Davy confirmed this opinion
by experiment. The leather tanned by it appeared
to possess the same qualities as when tanned in the
usual manner; and although this substance contains
a small portion of extractive matter, yet the increase
of weight of the skin was rather less than when
solutions of galls were used.

   In examining different barks, he was not able to

procure from them any free gallic acid, but their in-
fusions gave, on evaporation, tannin and extractive.
The greater number of his experiments were made
on the barks of the oak, the Leicester willow, the
Spanish chestnut, the elm, and the common willow.
The largest quantity of tannin he found to be con-
tained in the interior, or white cortical layers ; and
the largest quantity of extractive matter in the ex-
terior layers; the epidermis, or rough outward bark,
did not contain either the one or the other.

   From his general observations he is inclined to
suppose that, in all the astringent vegetables, the
tannin is of the same species, and that all the dif-
ferences attributed to it depend upon its state of
combination with other principles.

   In applying the results of his experiments to the

theory of tanning, he considers the process as simply

     * Catechu is an extract obtained from the wood of a species of
 the Mimosa that grows in India, by boiling and subsequent evapo-

 ration. It is of two kinds ; one from Bengal, the other from Bom-

 bay. The former contains rather less, the latter rather more, than
 half its weight of tannin. The remainder in both cases is a pecu-
 liar extractive matter mixed with mucilage. P.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  171

depending upon the union of the tannin with the
matter of the skin, in such a manner as to form
with it an insoluble compound. Gallic acid, he feels
assured, does not produce any notable effects in the
process ; but he thinks that the quality of the lea-
ther depends, in some degree, upon the quantity of
extractive matter it may imbibe.

   Skin, combined with extractive matter only, would

be increased in weight, become coloured, and be
extremely flexible, but it would not be insoluble
in water ; and were it combined with tannin alone,

it would be heavier and less supple than when both
these principles enter into the compound.

   He examines with great acuteness and precision

some of the more popular opinions entertained by

tanners, and brings his science to bear very satisfac-

torily upon several of their processes.
   The grand secret, on which the profit of the trade

mainly depends, is to give the hides the greatest

increase of weight in the least possible time. To

effect this, various schemes have been proposed,

many of which, "from the ignorance of the operators,
instead of promoting, have defeated the object.

Different menstrua have been suggested for expe-

diting the process, and amongst them lime-water
and the solutions of pearl-ash; but, as he has clearly
shown, these two substances form compounds with

tannin which are not decomposable by gelatine;
whence it follows that their effects must be perni-
cious ; and there is very little reason to suppose that
any bodies will be found which, at the same time
that they increase the solubility of tannin in water,
will not likewise diminish its attraction for skin.

172 THE LIFE OF

   His experiments having proved that the saturated
infusions of astringent barks contain much less
extractive matter, in proportion to their tannin,
than those which are weaker, it follows, that by
quickly tanning the skin, we render the leather less

durable. These observations show that there is

some foundation for the vulgar opinion of work-

men, concerning what is technically called the feed-
ing of leather in the slow method of tanning.

   Such is an outline of this interesting paper, in
which the author has displayed the talent so charac-
teristic of his mind that of bringing science and

art into useful alliance with each other. It forms, at

this day, the guide of the tanner; and those who
previously carried on the process by a routine of ope-
rations, of which they knew not the reasons, are now
capable of modifying it, without the risk of spoiling
the result. Many of those expedients which have
been brought forward as novelties in later years, may
be found in this paper ; or, at least, have arisen out
of the principles disclosed during his investigations.

  It has been stated that, shortly after Davy's suc-

cessful debut as a lecturer, his manners underwent a

change, and that, to the regret of his friends, he lost
much of his native simplicity. On the 5th of Fe-
bruary 1802, he had dined with Sir Harry Engle-
field at his house at Blackheath ; and eighteen years
afterwards, the worthy Baronet alluded to his inter-

esting demeanour upon that occasion, in terms suffi-

ciently expressive of his feelings " It was the last
flash of expiring Nature." It was natural that his

best friends, on perceiving this change of manner,
should entertain some apprehensions as to the

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                  173

deeper qualities of his heart. Mr. Purkis has placed
in my hands the following letter addressed to him
by Mr. Coleridge ; it will interest the reader by the
force and truth with which its talented writer cha-
racterises the perils which beset the elevated path of
the young philosopher at the commencement of his

career.

             TO SAMUEL PURKIS, ESQ.

MY DEAR PURKIS,  Nether Stowey, Feb. 17, 1803.
I RECEIVED your parcel last night, by post, from
IGunville, whither (crossly enough) am going with
Iour friend Poole to-morrow morning.
                                      do from

my very heart thank you for your prompt and

friendly exertion, and for your truly interesting let-

Iter. shall write to Wedgwood by this post ; he
Iis still at Cote, near Bristol ; but shall take the

Bang back with rne to Gunville, as Wedgwood

will assuredly be there in the course of ten days.

Jos. Wedgwood is named the Sheriff of the County.
IWhen have heard from Wedgwood, or when he
I Ihas tried this Nepenthe, will write to you.
                                                have

been here nearly a fortnight ; and in better health

than usual. Tranquillity, warm rooms, and a dear

Iold friend, are specifics for my complaints. Poole
is indeed a very, very good man.     like even his

incorrigibility in small faults and deficiencies : it

looks like a wise determination of Nature to let

well alone ; and is a consequence, a necessary one

perhaps, of his immutability in his important good
qualities. His journal, with his own comments,

has proved not only entertaining but highly instruc-

tive to me.

174 THE LIFE OF

  I rejoice in Davy's progress. There are three

Suns recorded in Scripture: Joshua's, that stood

still ; Hezekiah's, that went backward ; and David's,

that went forth and hastened on his course, like a

bridegroom from his chamber. May our friend's

prove the latter ! It is a melancholy thing to see a

man, like the Sun in the close of the Lapland sum-

mer, meridional in his horizon ; or like wheat in a

Irainy season, that shoots up well in the stalk, but

does not kern. As have hoped, and do hope, more
proudly of Davy than of any other man ; and as he

has been endeared to me more than any other man,

by the being a Thing of Hope to me (more, far more

than myself to my own self in my most genial mo-
ments,) so of course my disappointment would be

Iproportionally severe. It were falsehood, if said
Ithat think his present situation most calculated,

of all others, to foster either his genius, or the clear-
Iness and incorruptness of his opinions and moral
feelings.       see two Serpents at the cradle of his

genius, Dissipation with a perpetual increase of ac-

quaintances, and the constant presence of Inferiors

and Devotees, with that too great facility of attain-

ing admiration, which degrades Ambition into Va-

Inity but the Hercules will strangle both the rep-
tile monsters.  have thought it possible to exert

talents with perseverance, and to attain true great-

Iness wholly pure, even from the impulses of am-

bition; but on this subject Davy and always

differed.

   When you used the word " gigantic," you meant,

Ino doubt, to give me a specimen of the irony
Imust expect from my Philo-Lockian critics.

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            175

Itrust,. that shall steer clear of almost all offence.
My book is not, strictly speaking, metaphysical, but

historical. It perhaps will merit the title of a His-
Itory of Metaphysics in England from Lord Bacon
to Mr. Hume, inclusive.   confine myself to facts

Iin every part of the work, excepting that which

treats of Mr. Hume: him have assuredly be-
sprinkled copiously from the fountains of Bitterness
                As to this, and the other
Iand Contempt.  mentioned, " have patience,  works
                                             Lord !
which you have
and will pay thee all !"
  IMr. T. Wedgwood goes to Italy in the first

days of May. Whether accompany him is uncer-
tain. He is apprehensive that my health may inca-
If I Ipacitate me.
                do not go with him, (and shall

Ibe certain, one way or the other, in a few weeks,)

  shall go by myself, in the first week of April, if

possible.

  IPoole's kindest remembrances send you on my
Iown hazard ; for he is busy below, and must fold
Iup my letter. Whether remain in England or
Iam abroad, will occasionally write you ; and am

ever, my dear Purkis, with affectionate esteem,

                                Your's sincerely,
                                            S. T. COLERIDGE.

   Remember me kindly to Mrs. Purkis and your
children. T. Wedgwood's disease is not painful ;
it is a complete tadium vita ; nothing pleases long,
and novelty itself begins to cease to act like novelty.
Life and all its forms move, in his diseased mo-

ments, like shadows before him, cold, colourless, and

unsubstantial.

176 THE LIFE OF

   From the tone of the following letter, it may
be presumed also, that Mr. Poole, to whom it is

addressed, had expressed some anxiety upon the
dangers to which his flattering station exposed him.

           TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,        London, May 1, 1803.

I HAVE you no thoughts of coming to London ?
  have always recollected the short periods that you
have spent in town, with a kind of mixed feeling of

pleasure and regret.
In the bustling activity occasioned in cities by
the action and re-action of diversified talents, occu-

Ipations, and passions, our existence is, as it were,

broken into fragments, and with you have always

wished for unbroken intercourse and continuous

feeling.
              ** **

Be not alarmed, my dear friend, as to the effect

of worldly society on my mind. The age of danger

has passed away. There are in the intellectual be-

ing of all men, permanent elements, certain habits
Iand passions that cannot change.
                                   am a lover of
INature, with an ungratified imagination.
                                           shall

continue to search for un tasted charms, for hidden

beauties.

   My real, my waking existence is amongst the
objects of scientific research : common amusements

and enjoyments are necessary to me only as dreams,
to interrupt the flow of thoughts too nearly analo-

gous to enlighten and to vivify.

  IColeridge has left London for Keswick ; during

his stay in town, saw him seldomer than usual ;

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.           177

   Ien did see him, it was generally in the midst of

large companies, where he is the image of power and
activity. His eloquence is unimpaired ; perhaps it
is softer and stronger. His will is probably less

than ever commensurate with his ability. Brilliant
images of greatness float upon his mind : like the

images of the morning clouds upon the waters, their

forms are changed by the motion of the waves, they

are agitated by every breeze, and modified by every
sunbeam. He talked in the course of one hour, of

Ibeginning three works, and he recited the poem of

Christobel unfinished, and as had before heard it.
What talent does he not waste in forming visions,

Isublime, but unconnected with the real world!
have looked to his efforts, as to the efforts of a

creating being ; but as yet, he has not even laid

the foundation for the new world of intellectual

forms.

 IWhen my Agricultural Lectures are finished,
propose to visit Paris, and perhaps Geneva. How
I regret that circumstances had not enabled us to
Imake the same tour at the same time !
                                        think, at
Iall events, shall see you before the Autumn, on

your own lands, amidst your own images and
            Your affectionate friend,
creations.

                   HUMPHRY DAVY.

            TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE,                 Royal Institution.

OFTEN, very often, in the midst of the tumults

of the multitude in this great city, has my spirit

Iturned in quietness and solitude towards you.
      hope soon to see you in Somersetshire, where

VOL. I.         N

178 THE LIFE OF

we may worship Nature, and the spirit that dwells

in Nature, in your green fields and under your tran-

quil sky. My communications with you and Cole-

ridge and Southey, and other ornaments of the great
existing Being, have excited feelings which cheer
me in the apathy of London, and which make me

love human nature.
              ***#

  IYour account of the young man who murdered

his wife, read with deep interest. It is from such
narratives of the conduct of common persons, that

the laws of simple human nature must be deduced.

Beings acted on by few objects, awakening in them

few but deep passions, are the beings which Meta-

physicians and Moralists ought to study ; not those

who exist in general life, having their energies and

feelings so attached to multiplied and indefinite

things so mixed up and connected with myriads
of circumstances, as to be imperceptible, unless by
                          I am, &c. &c.
a microscopic moral eye.  H. DAVY.

   From the former letter, we learn that Davy, at
this period, proposed delivering some lectures on
the Chemistry of Agriculture. From the memo-
randums of my late friend Mr. Arthur Young, the

Icelebrated Secretary to the Board of Agriculture,

  have succeeded, through the kindness of his daugh-

Iter, in procuring the following extracts ; the only

source from which have been able to obtain any
correct information upon this point in his scientific

life. "May loth, 1803. Mem. Two lectures by
Mr. Davy have taken place, and been very well

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.              179

led ; they intend retaining him by a salary of

a hundred pounds a year, a very good plan."

   Amongst    the pamphlets at    Bradfield Hall is a
small quarto  of fourteen pages,  entitled, " Outlines

of a Course of Lectures on the Chemistry of Agri-
culture, to be delivered before the Board of Agricul-

ture, 1803." It was evidently only printed for
private circulation amongst the members. At the

same time, he printed a small pamphlet, containing

an explanation of the terms used in chemistry, for
the instruction of those amongst his audience who

had not particularly directed their attention to the

science.

The first lecture was delivered on Tuesday, May

the 10th, at twelve at noon, and five others on the

succeeding Tuesdays and Fridays.

   In an address to the Board of Agriculture by Sir
John Sinclair, delivered in April 1806, in reviewing
the various objects to which the attention of the

Board had been directed, he thus alludes to the

subject : " In the year 1802, when my Lord Car-

rington was in the chair, the Board resolved to
direct the attention of a celebrated lecturer, Mr.

Davy, to agricultural subjects ; and in the following
year, during the Presidency of Lord Sheffield, he
first delivered to the members of this Institution,

a course of lectures on the CHEMISTRY OF AGRI-

CULTURE. The plan has succeeded to the extent

which might have been expected from the abilities
of the gentleman engaged to carry it into effect.

The lectures have hitherto been exclusively address-
ed to the Members of the Board ; but to such a
degree of perfection have they arrived, that it is

              N2

180 THE LIFE OF

Ifwell worthy of consideration, whether they ought
not to be given to a larger audience.                 such an

idea met with the approbation of the Board, a hall

might be procured for that purpose, or a special

course of lectures read in this room exclusively for

strangers."

   Davy would appear to have been very early im-
pressed with the importance of Chemistry, in its
various applications to Agriculture. Allusions are
constantly made to it in his letters ; and at the
conclusion of his " RESEARCHES," he glances at this
department of the chemistry of vegetation, and
observes that, " although it is immediately connected

with the art upon which we depend for subsistence,
it has been but little investigated."

   In his introductory lecture of 1802, he speaks more

forcibly upon the subject.
   "Agriculture, to which we owe our means of

subsistence, is an art intimately connected with che-

mical science ; for although the common soil of the
earth will produce vegetable food, yet it can only
be made to produce it in the greatest quantity, and
of the best quality, by methods of cultivation depen-

den"tTuhpeonknsocwielendtigfiec  principles.          of soils,  of

                                  of the composition

the food of vegetables, of the modes in which their

products must be treated, so as to become fit for the

nourishment of animals, is essential to the cultivator

of land; and his exertions are profitable and useful

to society, in proportion as he is more of a chemical

professor. Since indeed the truth has been under-

stood, and since the importance of agriculture has

been generally felt, the character of the agriculturist

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.        181

has become more dignified, and more refined ; no
longer a mere machine of labour, he has learned to

think, and to reason. He is aware of his usefulness

to his fellow-men, and he is become, at once, the

friend of nature, and the friend of society."
   His appointment, as chemical professor to the

Board of Agriculture, was accompanied with the
obligation of reading lectures before its members ;
which he continued to deliver every successive
season for ten years, modifying and extending their
views, from time to time, in such a manner as

the progress of chemical discovery might render

necessary.

    These discourses were collated, and published in
the year 1813, at the request of the President and
members of the Board, and they form the. only
systematic work we, at present, possess on the sub-

Iject. Its views, however, are too generally interest-

ing to be briefly dismissed ; shall therefore enter
more fully into their merits in a more advanced
part of these memoirs.

   His connexion with the Board necessarily brought

him in contact with the practical agriculturists and
capitalists of the day, with many of whom he

formed friendships which lasted through life. With
Mr. Coke of Holkham he became well acquainted,
and generally formed one of the party at his annual
sheep-shearing.* He was also a frequent visitor at

* In the 40th volume of the " Annals of Agriculture," an ac-

count is given of the    HisoltkhheamnamSheeeopf -s"heMarri.ngProffeosrso1r80D3,avayn.d"  in
the list of the company

At the meeting of 1808, he was also present, and is mentioned as

the great chemist, whose discoveries will immortalize his name.
                                                                                         Mr.

182 THE LIFE OF

Woburn, and received from the Duke the means
by which he was enabled to submit to the test of
practice various theories which his science had

suggested.

   In a letter to Mr. Gilbert, dated October 1803,

Ihe says : " have just quitted the coast of Sussex,
Iwhere have spent the last three weeks with Lord

Sheffield, the worthy biographer of Gibbon." In

fact, there was not a nobleman, distinguished for
intellectual superiority, who did not feel a pride in

receiving him as a guest ; and he passed his vaca-
tions in the society of those exalted persons who, in
possessing rank, fortune, and talents, felt that they
only held such gifts from Providence, in trust for
the welfare of their fellow-countrymen.

   We can scarcely picture to ourselves a being

Mr. Coke, in the  caonudrseshoofrthids usnpge, ecshaiadf,te"r  dinner, alluding to the
question of long
                                                               It is the opinion of a

friend of mine, who sits near me, Professor Davy, and upon whose

judgment, on account of his extensive chemical as well as other

scientific knowledge, I place the highest reliance, that the manure

carried immediately on the field, without being disturbed, will have

a greater effect in exciting rapid vegetation, and in encouraging the

growth of the turnip plant, than when applied in the ordinary manner;

for, under such circumstances, it will not only be more moist and

alkaline, but it will be protected from a loss of substance, amounting

very nearly to one-third of its original bulk." Davy afterwards, in

company with the Duke of Bedford, Lord William Russell, Lord

Thanet, Sir Joseph Banks, and other agriculturists, inspected
several farms. In 1812, his health was drunk at the Woburn

Sheep-shearing by the Duke of Bedford ; and in the following

festival it was proposed by Lord Hardwicke.                    published by
   In the print of the " Woburn Sheep-shearing,"

Garrard, in 1811, No. 75 represents Davy; he is standing, in a

listening attitude, behind Mr. Coke, who is conversing with Sir
Joseph Banks, Sir John Sinclair, and Mr. Arthur Young.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                    183

upon -whom fortune ever showered more favours

than upon Davy, during this golden period of his

career. Independent in an honourable competence,

the product of his genius and industry ; resident in

the centre of all scientific information and intelli-

gence ; every avenue of knowledge, and every mode

of observation open to his unwearied intellect, he

must have experienced a satisfaction which few phi-

losophers have ever before felt, the power of pur-

suing experimental research to any extent, and of

commanding the immediate possession of all the

means it might require, without the least regard
either to cost or labour. What a contrast does this

picture afford to that which has been too faithfully
represented as the more usual fate of the philosopher

and man of letters, and which exhibits little more

than the unavailing struggles of genius against pe-

nury ! Instead of a life consumed in fruitless ex-

pectation of patronage and reward, we behold Davy,

in the full bloom of reputation, courted by all whom

rank, talent, or station, had rendered conspicuous.

His life flowed on like a pure stream, under a

sky of perpetual sunshine, not a gust ruffled its
surface, not a cloud obscured its brightness. In the

morning, he was the sage interpreter of Nature's

laws ; in the evening, he sparkled in the galaxy of

fashion; and not the least extraordinary point in

the character of this great man, was the facility

with which he could cast aside the cares of study,

and enter into the  trifling amusements of society.  of

" Ne otium quidem    otiosum" was the exclamation

Cicero ; and it will generally apply to the leisure of

men actively engaged in the pursuits of science ; but

184 THE LIFE OF

Davy, in closing the door of his laboratory, opened
the temple of pleasure. When not otherwise en-

gaged, his custom was to play at billiards, frequent

the theatre, or read the last new novel. In ordinary

cases, the genius of evening dissipation is an arrant

Penelope ; but Davy, on returning to his morning

labours, never found that the thread had been un-

spun during the interruption.

  IThe following anecdote is well calculated to illus-

trate that versatility of talent of which have fre-

quently spoken, as well as the power he possessed
of abstracting himself, without detriment, from the

most elaborate investigations. A friend of the late
Mr. Tobin called upon him at the Institution, and

found him deeply engaged  in   the  laboratory   ; their
conversation turned upon   "   The    Honey     Moon,"

which was to be brought out on the following

evening.* No sooner had Davy heard that, al-

though pressing applications had been made to se-

veral of the poets of the day, a Prologue had not

yet been written, than he instantly quitted the labo-

ratory, and in two hours produced that which was

Irecited on the occasion by Mr. Bartley, and printed
in the first edition of the comedy.         insert it in

this place.

No uniformity in life is found :
In ev'ry scene varieties abound ;

And inconsistency still marks the plan
Of that immortal noble being, Man.

As changeful as the April's morning skies,

His feeling and his sentiments arise ;

   * "The Honey Moon" was produced at Drury Lane, on Thursday,
the 30th of January, 1805.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  185

And Nature to his wond'rous frame has given
The mingled elements of Earth and Heaven.
In different climes and ages, still we find

The same events for diff'rent ends design'd :
And the same passion diff'rent minds can move
To thoughts of sadness or to acts of love.

   Hence Genius draws his novel copious store ;
And hence the new creations we adore :
And hence the scenic art's undying skill
Submits our feeling to its potent will j
From common accidents and common themes

Awakens rapture and poetic dreams ;
And, in the trodden path of life, pursues
Some object clothed in Fancy's loveliest hues
To strengthen nature, or to chasten art,
To mend the manners or exalt the heart.

    So thought the man whom you must judge to-night ;
And as he thought, he boldly dared to write.
Not new the subject of his first-born rhyme ;
But one adorn'd by bards of elder time ;

Bards with the grandest sentiments inspired

Bards that in rapture he has still admired ;

And tried to imitate, with ardour warm,
And catch the spirit of their powerful charm.

With loftiest zeal and anxious hope, he sought
To bring to modern times their strength of thought ;
And, in their glowing colours, to display
The follies and the virtues of the day.

    Whether his talents have his wish belied,

Your judgment and your candour must decide.
He, though your loftiest plaudits you should raise
He cannot thank you for the meed of praise.
Rapture he cannot feel, nor fear, nor shame ;
Connected with his love of earthly fame,
 He is no more. Yet may his memory live
In all the bloom that early worth can give !
 Should you applaud, 'twould check the flowing tear
 Of those to whom his name and hopes are dear.

186 THE LIFE OF

          But should you an unfinish'd structure find,
          As in its first and rudest forms design' d,
           As yet not perfect from the glowing mind,
           Then with a gentle voice your censure spread,
          And spare the living spare the sacred DEAD !

    Davy would appear to have frequently amused
himself with writing sonnets, and inclosing them in
letters to his several friends: the following letter
will also show that he was ambitious of being con-
sidered a poet.

                     TO SAMUEL FURKIS, ESQ.

       MY DEAR PURKIS,

  I INCLOSE the little poem,* on which your praise
Ihas stamped a higher value, fear, than it deserves.

  If I thought that people in general would think
Ias favourably of my poetical productions, would

write more verses, and would write them with more

I Icare ; but fear you are partial : am very glad,
Ihowever, that you like the little song ; at some

future period will send you another.
   With kind remembrances, unalterably your sin-

cere friend,

                                                   H. DAVY.

   On examining the laboratory notes made at this
period, many of which, however, are nearly illegible
from blots of ink and stains of acid, it would appear
that his researches into the composition of mineral
bodies were most extensive, and that he obtained
many new results, of which he does not seem to

                     * The subject was " Julias Eyes."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  187

have availed himself in any of his subsequent pa-
pers. To borrow a metaphor from his favourite
amusement, he treated such results as small fry,

which he returned to their native element to grow

bigger, or to be again caught by some less aspiring
brother of the angle.

   Had Davy, at this period of his life, been anxious

to obtain wealth,* such was his chemical reputation,

and such the value attached to his judgment, that,

by lending his assistance to manufacturers and pro-

jectors, he might easily have realized it; but his

aspirations were of a nobler kind SCIENTIFIC
GLORY was the grand object for which his heart
panted : by stopping to collect the golden apples,
he might have lost the race.

   * I am assured by one of his earliest friends, that, at this period,

he did not appear even to have an idea of the value of property.
Any thing not immediately necessary to him he gave away, and

never retained a book after he had read it.

188 THE LIFE OF

               CHAPTER V.

Sir Thomas Bernard allots Davy apiece of ground for Agricultural
   Experiments History of the Origin of the Royal Institution.
   Its early labours. Davy's Letters to Mr. Gilbert and to Mr.
   Poole. Death of Mr. Gregory Watt. Davy's passion for Fish-
   ing, with Anecdotes. He makes a Tour in Ireland : his Letters
   on the subject. His paper on the Analysis of the Wavellite.
   His Memoirs on a new method of analysing Minerals which con-
   tain a fixed Alkali. Reflections on the discovery of Galvanic

   Electricity.

VERY shortly after Davy had arrived in London,

he formed an intimate friendship with Mr. (after-

wards Sir Thomas) Bernard ; and no sooner had he
directed his attention to the subject of Philosophi-

cal Agriculture, than the worthy Baronet allotted

him a considerable piece of ground near his villa at

Roehampton, where, under his sole direction, nu-

merous experiments were tried, many of which

proved highly successful, and afterwards served for
the illustration of various subjects in his work on

AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY.

Although devoted as Davy was to the pursuits

of science, he entered warmly into all political plans
                the condition of the
for improving  progress of civilization.  pe"opNleo,    and
advancing the                                         one,"

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  189

Isays his friend Mr. Poole, " was less a sectarian,

if may use the word, in religion, politics, or in

science. He regarded with benevolence the sincere
convictions of any class on the subject of belief,
however they might differ from his own. In poli-

tics, he was the ardent friend of rational liberty.
He gloried in the institutions of his country, and

was anxious to see them maintained in their purity

by timely and temperate reform." Indeed, in care-

fully analysing his mind, and tracing its develope-
ment, it appears that benevolence was one of its
leading elements ; the form in which it displayed
its energies varying with the varying conditions of
intelligence. In boyish life, his imagination, acting
upon his zeal for the welfare of his species, delight-
ed, as we have seen, in the ideas of encountering
dragons, and quelling the might of giants ; but as
fancy paled with the light of advancing years, and

the judgment presented distincter appearances, the

philanthropic antipathy which had been directed to
those chimeras of the nursery, was transferred to

the two great oppressions of society, and in Super-
stition he saw the dragons in Despotism, the giants

that spread mischief and misery through the world.

  ISome of his early manuscripts are still in exist-

ence ; and shall here introduce a passage from one

which has been lately transmitted to me by a gentle-

man resident in Penzance. The most trifling record
becomes interesting, when we can trace in it the
germ of a particular opinion, or the first symptom of

a quality which may afterwards have distinguished

its possessor.

   " Science is as yet in her infancy ; but in her in-

190 THE LIFE OF

fancy she has done much for man. The discoveries

hitherto so beneficial to mankind have been gene-
rally effected by the energies of individual minds :
what hopes may we not entertain of the rapid pro-
gress of the happiness of man when illumination
shall become general when the united powers of

a number of scientific men shall be employed in

discovery ! Every thing seems to announce the
rapid advance of this period of improvement. The

time is approaching when despotism and supersti-

tion, those enormous chains that have so long enfet-

tered mankind, shall be annihilated, when liberated

man shall display the mental energies for which he

was created. At that period, nations shall know

that it is their interest to cultivate science, and that

the benevolent philosophy is never separated from
the happiness of mankind."

   In his published writings, we discover evidences

of the same tendency ; he suffers no opportunity to

escape which can enable him to enforce his principle,

and he extracts from the most common as well as

from the least probable sources, comparisons and

analogies for its illustration. The ingenuity with

which this is accomplished often surprises and de-

lights us ; the effect upon the reader is frequently

not unlike that occasioned by the flashes of wit, to

which it surely must be closely allied, if wit be

correctly defined by Johnson "a combination of

dissimilar images, or the discovery of occult resem-

blances in things apparently unlike." Is not this

opinion   shtirsikoinbgselyrvaitlilounstsra"teudponbythteheprohcaepsspyoftuorbn-
given to

taining nitrous oxide from nitre," when he says,

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  191

" Thus, if the hopes which these experiments induce

us to indulge do not prove fallacious, a substance

which has heretofore been almost exclusively appro-

priated to the destruction of mankind, may become,
in the hands of philosophy, the means of producing

health and pleasure !"

Mr. Poole, who watched the whole of his progress

from obscurity to distinction, and enjoyed his friend-
ship for nearly thirty years, says, " To be useful to

science and mankind was, to use his favourite

expression, the pursuit in which he gloried. He

was enthusiastically attached to science, and to men

of science ; and his heart yearned to promote their

interests."

That Davy, with a mind so constituted, should

have formed a strong and ardent attachment to Sir

Thomas Bernard, and that this friendship should

have been reciprocally cultivated, cannot be a matter

Iof surprise.

      am happy in this opportunity of paying a tri-

Ibute of respect to the memory of this most excellent

person, with whom had the pleasure of being well
acquainted. His life was one continued scheme of

active benevolence ; and he merits a particular notice

in these memoirs, as being one of the principal foun-

ders and patrons of the Royal Institution. Actuated

by that noble and rational ambition which makes

private pursuits subservient to public good, he di-

rected all the energies of his mind, the influence of

his station, and the resources of his wealth, towards

promoting societies and schemes for encouraging the

virtues and industry, and for ameliorating the con-

dition, of the lower classes.

192 THE LIFE OF

   In the beginning of November 1796, in conjunc-
tion with the late Bishop of Durham, Mr. Wilber-
force, and Mr. Elliot, he established the SOCIETY

FOR BETTERING THE CONDITION OF THE POOR.

As one of the primary objects of the original pro-
moters of this society was the formation of an insti-
tution which might teach the application of science
to the advancement of the arts of life, and to the

increase of domestic comforts, a select committee

was appointed from its body, in January 1799, for
the purpose of conferring with Count Humford on
the means of carrying such a scheme into practical
effect. This committee consisted of the Earl of
Winchelsea, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Sullivan, the

Bishop of Durham, Sir Thomas Bernard, and some
other members of the society ; and in a few weeks

they completed the arrangements, circulated printed
proposals, and collected the subscriptions, which

gave birth to the ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT
BRITAIN, the future cradle of experimental science,
and the destined scene of Davy's glory.

   In addition to the general objects of promoting
the arts and manufactures, and of advancing the
taste and science of the country, its more immediate
purpose was the improvement of the means of in-

dustry and domestic comfort among the poor.
    That this benevolent design was constantly kept

in sight may be shown by the several resolutions
passed at the different meetings of the Managers,
especially at that held in March 1 800 ; when it was

resolved to appoint fourteen different committees,

for the purpose of scientific investigation and im-
provement ; amongst which were the following :

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  193

   " For the investigation into the processes of
making bread, and into the methods of improving it.

   " For enquiring into the art of preparing cheap
and nutritious soups for feeding the poor.

   " For improving the construction of cottages, and
cottage fire-places, and for improving kitchen fire-

places, and kitchen utensils.

   " For ascertaining, by experiment, the effects of the
various processes of cookery upon the food of cattle.

   " For improving the construction of lime-kilns,
and the composition of mortar and cements," &c. &c.

   So that the foundation and original arrangements
of the Royal Institution were not only calculated to
extend the boundaries of science, but to increase

its applications, and to promote and improve those

arts of life on which the subsistence of all, and the

comfort and enjoyment of the great majority of

mankind absolutely depend.

  At this early period of its history, the Royal

Institution presented a scene of the most animated

bustle and exhilarating activity. Persons most dis-

tinguished in the various departments of science and

art were to be -seen zealously and liberally co-ope-

rating for the promotion and diffusion of public

happiness, under the cheering beams of popular

favour and exalted patronage. It was like ' a busy

Iant-hill in a calm sunshine.'
       shall only add, that Sir Thomas Bernard was
the original promoter of the " School for the Indi-

gent Blind ;" of an institution for the protection
and instruction of " Climbing Boys ;" of a society
for the relief of " Poor Neighbours in Distress ;"
of the " Cancer Institution ;" and of the ft London

Fever Hospital."

VOL. I.           O

194 THE LIFE OF

fouTnhdeerpohfilathneth"roBpriictishBarInonsteittutwioans,,"  moreover, the
                                                              for promoting

the Fine Arts in the United Kingdom ; and he was
also the originator of the " Alfred Club."

   The vast range and practical utility of these exer-

tions were duly appreciated by his contemporaries,

who were ever ready to promote any scheme which

had received the sanction of his patronage. It is an

anecdote worthy of being preserved, that the late

Sir Robert Peel called upon him one morning, and

after a general conversation on the different philan-

thropic objects they had in view, said on leaving the

room, he had to request that Sir Thomas would dis-

pose of something for him, in any manner he thought

most serviceable, and laid on the table an enclosure.

After he had left the house, Sir Thomas was greatly

surprised, on opening it, to find a bank-note of a

thousand pounds.

The active zeal of Sir T. Bernard, like every other

circumstance which exceeds the ordinary standard of

our conduct, or becomes prominent from the rarity

of its occurrence, called forth the wit as well as the

admiration of his contemporaries. One of those

modern travellers who delight in astonishing their

auditors by incredible tales and marvellous anec-

dotes, happening to be in company with a noble

lord as much distinguished for the playfulness of

his wit as for the profundity of his learning, told

the following improbable story : that, in a seques-
tered part of Italy, when pressed by hunger and

fatigue, he sought refreshment and repose in a wild

dwelling in the mountains, and was agreeably sur-

prised at being offered a pie ; but, horror of horrors !

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     195

on examining its contents he found a human

Ifinger ! " Nothing more probable, Sir," interrupted

his Lordship; "and well know the person to

whom that finger belonged to Sir Thomas Ber-
nard, Sir, for he had a finger in every pie."

   The following letters will be read in this place
with interest.

           TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

   MY DEAR SIR,

I AM now on my way to Christchurch, in com-
pany with Mr. Bernard, who was the founder, and

has been the great supporter, of the Society for bet-
tering the condition of the Poor.

  IIn a conversation that has just passed between

us, mentioned the state of improvement of the

Downs between Helston and Marazion, in con-

sequence of grants of small portions of land to

Iminers and other tenants for cultivation, many of

which have, believe, been made by Lord Dun-

stanville. Mr. Bernard expressed a desire to know

what the   effect of this plan   had been    on   the con-
                                raised into      property-
dition of  the persons thus                   "

men."

He is accumulating facts as to the manner in

which the poor have been most effectually benefited,

and to assist his labour would be to assist a good

and most important cause ; perhaps, you will have

the goodness to give me a statement on this subject,

which of course shall be used as you may think

proper. You may likewise have similar facts nearer

Ihome, on your own estates.

     am convinced that the effects of enabling the

           o2

196 THE LIFE OF

common labourer to acquire property must be strik-
ing, and must often have been an object of your

contemplation.

    In making any statement of these facts, you
will probably think it right to mention some parti-

cular cases, with dates, names, and accounts of the
quantities of lands, the nature of the improve-
ments, &c.

   In the reports of the " Society for bettering the
condition of the Poor," there is one made on this
minute plan of Lord Winchelsea's grants of land
to cottagers, which conveys very full and useful

Iinformation.
      trust to your kindness, and believe me
                                         Your obliged,
                                                    H. DAVY.

   The following letter was written by Davy after
his return from an excursion to that beautiful dis-
trict, the north-west of the county of Somerset.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

I MY DEAR POOLE,  October, 1804.

RETURNED to town a little while ago, not sorry
Ito see the great city of activity and life ; not sorry

to see it, though had just spent two months in

enjoying a scenery beautiful and, to me, new ; in

witnessing much hospitality and unadulterated man-
ners, and in gaining much useful information.

  IMr. Bernard is writing a history of the poor.

have lived much with him at Roehampton since my
return, and he has read to me part of his work,

which is popularly eloquent, very intelligent, and

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  197

full of striking and important truths ; but pray say
nothing of this, for it is likely that it will appear
without his name : the facts will be strong, and

Iperhaps to some people offensive.
      have received a letter from Coleridge within the

last three weeks : he writes from Malta, in good

spirits, and, as usual, from the depth of his being.

IGod bless him ! He was intended for a great man ;

   hope and trust he will, at some period, appear

as such.

  I Iam working very hard at this moment, and
hope soon to send you some of the fruits of my
Ilabours.
          foarmthleikeimwpisreovdeemveisnitngofso"mtehisplagnesnearat toiounr
Institute,
Iof vipers ;" but, although am so vain as to an-
Inounce them, will not be so tedious as to detail

I Ithem.

   In your answer, which hope shall soon receive,
pray give me an account of the situation of " Poole's

IMarsh," with regard to the Parrot,* for have

mentioned the soil in a paper to the Board of Agri-

Iculture, which is now in the press.
                            am, my dear Poole,
                            Your truly affectionate friend,
                                                    H. DAVY.

   In this year, Davy was deprived of one of his

earliest and most attached friends, after a lingering
illness, during which his symptoms, by the alter-
nations which characterise consumption, had inspired
his friends with hope, only to chill them with de-

   * He alludes to a rich piece of land near the river Parrot ; a
specimen of the soil of which Mr. Poole had sent him for analysis.

198 THE LIFE OF

spondency ; Gregory Watt terminated his earthly

career.*

On the first impression which this melancholy

event produced upon his feelings, Davy wrote a let-

ter to his friend Clayfield, from which the following

I Iis
a"n  extract.    dare  to write upon  the subject
       scarcely

would fain do what Hamlet does, when, in awe and

horror at the ghost of his father, he attempts to call

up the ludicrous feeling, but being unable to do so,

he merely employs the words which are connected

I Iwith it. would be gay, or would write gaily, in
Ialluding to the loss we have both sustained, but
feel that it is impossible. Poor Watt ! He ought
Inot to have died.
                       could not persuade myself that
Ihe would die ; and until the very moment when
Iwas assured of his fate, would not believe he was

in "anHyisdlaenttgeerrs. to me, only three or four months ago,
were full of spirit, and spoke not of any infirmity of
body, but of an increased strength of mind. Why
is this in the order of Nature, that there is such a

difference in the duration and destruction of her
Ifworks ?
           the mere stone decays, it is to produce

a soil which is capable of nourishing the moss and

the lichen ; when the moss and the lichen die and

decompose, they produce a mould which becomes

* Gregory Watt was one of those philosophers to whose memory

justice has not awarded its due. He was a meteor, whose light no

sooner flashed upon us than it expired. His paper upon the

gradual refrigeration of Basalt, alone entitled him to a distinguished

rank amongst experimentalists.  It was read before the Royal

Society in May ; and he expired in the following October.

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    199

the bed of life to grass, and to a more exalted species
of vegetables. Vegetables are the food of animals,

   the less perfect animals of the more perfect ; but
in man, the faculties and intellect are perfected, he

rises, exists for a little while in disease and misery,

and then would seem to disappear, without an end,

and without  producing any effect.            if we    sup-
             deceived, my dear Clayfield,
   " We are

pose that the human being who has formed himself

for action, but who has been unable to act, is lost

in the mass of being: there is some arrangement

of things which we can never comprehend, but in

which his faculties    will  be applied.      into an  inert
   " The caterpillar,   in   being converted

scaly mass, does not appear to be fitting itself for an
inhabitant of air, and can have no consciousness of

the brilliancy of its future being. We are masters

of the earth, but perhaps we are the slaves of some

great and unknown beings. The fly that we crush

with our finger, or feed with our viands, has no

knowledge of man, and no consciousness of his su-
periority. We suppose that we are acquainted with

matter, and with all its elements, and yet we cannot

even guess at the cause of electricity, or explain the

laws of the formation of the stones which fall from

meteors. There may be beings, thinking beings,

near us, surrounding us, which we do not perceive,

which we can never imagine. We know very little ;

but, in my opinion, we know enough to hope for the

immortality, the individual immortality of the better
Ipar"t
      of man.     led  into  all this  speculation,  which

       have been

you may well think wild, in reflecting upon the fate

200 THE LIFE OF

of Gregory ! my feeling has given erring wings to
my mind. He was a noble fellow, and would have
been a great man. Oh ! there was no reason for his

dying he ought not to have died.
   " Blessings wait on you, my good fellow ! Pray

remember me to Tobin, and, if you read this letter

to him, protest, the moment he begins to argue
                  immortality of man !
Iaga"instcatmhee   yesterday from the   borders  of  Dorset-
Ishire, where have been since Monday, seduced to
Itravel by a friend.  was within sixty miles of you,

and saw divers fair trout- streams : let the fish beware

Iof me, I shall be at them on Monday."
      have included this latter sentence in my extract,
as being highly characteristic of the writer. His

passion for angling betrayed itself upon all occa-
sions ; and the sport was alike his relief in toil, and
his solace in sorrow. To his conversation, as well as

to his letters, we may aptly apply the words of the

Augustan poet :

" Desinit in piscem   formosa superne."

IWhenever had the honour of dining at his table,

the conversation, however it might have commenced,

invariably ended on fishing ; and when a brother of

the angle happened to be present, you had the plea-
sure of hearing all his encounters with the finny
tribe how he had lured them by his treachery, and
vanquished them by his perseverance. He would
occasionally strike into a most eloquent and impas-
sioned strain upon some subject which warmed his
fancy ; such, for example, as the beauties of moun-
tain scenery ; but before you could fully enjoy the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           201

prospect which his imagination had pictured, down

he carried you into some sparkling stream, or rapid
current, to flounder for the next half hour with a

Ihooked salmon !

      remember witnessing, upon one of these occa-
sions, a very amusing scene, which may be related

Ias illustrative of some peculiarities of his temper.

believe all those who have accompanied Davy in
his fishing excursions, will allow that no sportsman
was ever more ambitious to appear skilful and lucky.
Nothing irritated him so much as to find that his
companions had caught more fish than himself; and

    during conversation, brother fisherman surpassed
him in the relation of his success, he betrayed similar
if,

     I

                                  a
                                                  a
impatience.
   There happened to be present, on the occasion to

which allude, skilful angler, and an enterprising
chemist. The latter commenced on some subject

connected with his favourite science; but Davy,

who, generally speaking, disliked to make            it     subject

                                                         a

of conversation, suddenly turned to the angler, and

;related what he considered very surprising instance
               :
of his success his sporting friend, however, morti-
                                    afied him by the relation of still more marvellous
                                       a
anecdote upon which Davy as quickly returned to

the chemist, who, in turn, again sent him back to

the angler: and thus did he appear to endure the

unhappy fate of the flying fish, who no sooner
escapes from an enemy in the regions of air, than he

   pursued by one equally rapacious in the waters.
But to return to the thread of our history.

   In referring to the records of the Institution,

appears that in January 1805, Davy greatly en-
is

                                                                       it

202 THE LIFE OF

riched the cabinets of the Institution by a present of
minerals. The following are the Minutes of the

Committee upon this occasion :

   " January 21, 1805. Mr. Hatchett reported that,
in pursuance of the request of the Managers, he had
inspected the minerals presented to the Royal Insti-
tution by Mr. Davy, and that the aggregate value
(including the duplicate specimens) appears to him

to exceed one hundred guineas."

   " January 28. The Managers took into consider-
ation Mr. Hatchett's report at the last meeting, and
resolved that Mr. Davy is entitled to the thanks of
the Managers for having added so valuable a pre-
sent to the collection of minerals belonging to the
Institution."

   On the 4th of February, it was Resolved" That

Mr. Davy be appointed Director of the Laboratory,
at a salary of one hundred pounds a-year ; by which
his annual income from the Institution was raised to

four hundred pounds. At this period he delivered

a series of lectures on Geology, or on the chemical
history of the earth ; to which we find an allusion in

the following letter.

           TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,  February, 1805.
I AM very much obliged to you for your last
Ikind letter, and thank you most sincerely for the
Iexertion of your friendship at Bath.
                                       thank you
Iwith very warm feelings.

      hope you will soon come to town ; that you will

stay a long time ; and that we shall be very much

together.

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             203

I paid your subscription to Arthur Young for

the Smithfield Club. Pray, at all times, command

Ime to do any thing can for you in London : you
Icannot teaze me ; and though am a very idle fel-
Ilow, yet can always work if the stimulus be the

desire of serving such a friend as yourself.
I am giving my course of lectures on Geology to
Ivery crowded audiences.
                             take a great interest in
Ithe subject ; and hope the information given will

be useful.

   There has been no news lately from Coleridge;
the last accounts state that he was well in the au-

tumn, and in Sicily. On that poetic ground, we

may hope and trust that his genius will call forth

some new creations, and that he may bring back
Ito us some garlands of never-dying verse.
                                              have

written to urge him strongly to give a course of

lectures on Poetry at the Royal Institution, where

Ihis feeling would strongly impress, and his elo-
quence greatly delight.  am, my dear Poole, most

affectionately           Yours,

                                   H. DAVY.

   On the 20th of May, in this year, Mr. Hatchett
reported to the Managers of the Institution " that

Mr. Davy proposed making a journey into Wales

and Ireland this summer, having in view to collect

specimens for enriching the  mineralogical cabinets ;"
in consequence of which it
                              was Resolved " That

the sum of one hundred pounds be entrusted to Mr.

Davy to purchase minerals, and to defray the inci-

dental charges ; and that the boy of the Laboratory,

204 THE LIFE OF

William Reeve,* be ordered to attend him on his

tour, and that the steward be directed to defray his

expenses.

   From the following letters, it would appear that,
having accomplished his purpose of visiting Ireland,
he made a rapid journey into Cornwall for the sake
of seeing his mother and sisters.

TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR,  Okehampton, September 1805.

  I1 AM accompanying my friend Mr. Bernard in a

tour through the West of England, and hope we

shall reach Penzance in two or three days.

  IMr. Bernard wishes much for the honour of your

acquaintance, and trust you will permit me to

have the pleasure of making you known to him.

Much kindness and long knowledge of him, may

have made me partial to that gentleman, and may

perhaps influence me when^I say, that there is not
a more patriotic, good, and public-spirited man in

Great Britain.

  I came from Ireland by the western road, about a

fortnight ago. My expectations were fully satisfied
with the appearances of the " Giant's Causeway."
The arrangements of rocks of the Northern Cape of

Ireland appear to me to present facts equally irre-

Iconcilable upon either the Plutonic or Neptunian

theory ; and am convinced that general fanciful

   * There are some circumstances of interest connected with the
history of this young man. He possessed much chemical talent ;
but during his residence in Ireland he was converted to the Catho-

lic religion, and is at this time a Catholic priest in some part of the
Continent.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       205

theories will lose ground in proportion as minute

observations are multiplied.

The Irish are a noble race, degraded by slavery,

and bearing the insignia of persecution, extreme sa-

vageness, or the lowest servility ; yet they are inge-

nious and active, and seem to me to possess all the

elements of power and usefulness ; but amongst the

lower orders there is a most unfortunate equality,

destructive of all great and efficient exertion ; and

amongst the higher classes the greatest degree of

activity is awakened only by the desire of imitating

the English, and that not so much in their virtues

and talents, as in their luxuries and follies.

  I hear from all quarters of the good effects of

your late exertions in Parliament. May your efforts

tend to establish the reign of good sense and pure

philosophy, in a place where they have been too

often found to yield to empty sounds !  H. DAVY.

Yours, &c.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,                    London, Oct. 9, 1805.
I MADE a very rapid journey to Cornwall with

Mr. Bernard, merely for the sake of showing him

the country, and for the purpose of spending a

week with my mother and sisters.
We made an effort to come to you at Nether

Stowey, but the people at Bridgewater would not

take us round, through Stowey, to Taunton, with-

out four horses ; and at all events we could only

have spent two or three hours with you ; and it is

difficult to say whether the pleasure of meeting, or

the regret at parting so soon, would have been the

206 THE LIFE OF

Igreatest.  long very much for the intercourse of
Ia week with you.
                   have very much to say about
Ireland. It is an island which might be made a
new and a great country. It now boasts a fertile

soil, an ingenious and robust peasantry, and a rich

aristocracy ; but the bane of the nation is the equa-

lity of poverty amongst the lower orders. All are

slaves without the probability of becoming free ;

they are in the state of equality which the Sans-

culottes wished for in France ; and until emulation

and riches, and the love of clothes and neat houses,

are introduced amongst them, there will be no per-

manent improvement.
   Changes in political institutions can at first do

little towards serving them. It must be by altering

their habits, by diffusing manufactories, by destroy-
ing middle-men, by dividing farms,* and by promot-

ing industry by making the pay proportioned to the

Iwork. But ought not to attempt to say any thing
Ion the subject when my limits are so narrow ;

hope soon to converse with you about it.

  I found much to interest me in geology in Ire-

Iland, and have brought away a great deal of infor-

Imation, and many specimens.

     shall now be in London till Christmas, with the
Iexception of next week, which am obliged to pass
Iin Bedfordshire.
                   am, my dear Poole,

                   Most affectionately your's,
                                       H. DAVY.

   * He means that the middle-men being discontinued, their large
allotments should be divided into farms of convenient extent, the
occupiers of which should rent immediately from the owners of
the soil.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  207

   After the Giant's Causeway, the scenery which
called forth Davy's greatest admiration in Ireland
was that of Fair-Head. To an enthusiastic lover of
the wild and sublime features of Nature, an object
of greater interest could scarcely be presented than
a vast promontory, the summit of which rises five

hundred feet above the sea, and at whose base lies

a waste of rude and gigantic columns, swept by the
hand of Time from the mountain to which they

formerly belonged.
   The following fragment, written by Davy at the

time, has been placed in my hands by Mr. Greenough.

                 " But chiefly thee, Fair-Head !

      IUnrivalTd in thy form and majesty !

          For on thy loftiest summit have walk'd
         In the bright sunshine, while beneath thee roll'd

           The clouds in purest splendour, hiding now
          Tlie Ocean and his islands parting now

        As if reluctantly : whilst full in view

          The blue tide wildly roll'd, skirted with foam,
          And bounded by the green and smiling land,
           The dim pale mountains, and the purple sky.
          Majestic cliff! thou birth of unknown Time,

          Long had the billows beat thee, long the waves

           Rush'd o'er thy hollow'd rocks, ere life adorn'd

          Thy broken surface, ere the yellow moss
          Had tinted thee, or the mild dews of Heaven

           Clothed thee with verdure, or the eagles made

          Thy cave their aery : so in after time

          Long shalt thou rest unalter'd mid the wreck
         Of all the mightiness of human works ;

          For not the lightning nor the whirlwind's force,
          Nor all the waves of ocean, shall prevail

           Against thy giant strength and thou shalt stand

         Till the Almighty voice which bade thee rise

           Shall bid thee fall."

208 THE LIFE OF

  IAmongst Davy's letters to Mr. Gilbert, in the

years 1804 and 1805, find several upon the subject
of the elastic force of steam, at different tempera-
tures, with reference to Mr. Trevitheck's improve-
ments in the steam-engine ; in one of which he says,

I" shall be extremely happy to hear of the results
Iof your enquiries, and hope you will not confine

them to your friends, but make them public. When-
ever speculative leads to practical discovery, it ought
to be well remembered, and generally known : one
of the most common arguments against the philoso-
phical exercise of the understanding is, Cui bono ?

It is an absurd argument, and every fact against it

ought to be carefully registered. Trevitheck's en-
gine will not be forgotten ; but it ought to be known
and remembered that your reasonings and mathe-

matical enquiries led to the discovery."
   On the 28th of February 1805, was read before

the Royal Society, and published in the Transac-
tions of that year, a paper entitled, " An Account of

some analytical Experiments on a mineral produc-

tion from Devonshire, consisting principally of Alu-
mina and Water ; by Humphry Davy, &c."

   This mineral was first discovered by Dr. Wavel,
in small veins and cavities, in a tender argillaceous

slate, near Barn staple in Devonshire. At first it

was considered as a species of Zeolite, until Mr.

Hatchett concluded, from its geological position,
that it did not belong to that family of minerals.
Dr. Babington subsequently suspected from its phy-
sical characters, and from some of its habitudes with
acids, that it was a mineral not before described, and

accordingly placed a quantity of it in Davy's hands

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     209

for analysis ; who, on finding in its composition
little more than clay and water, proposed to change
the name of Wavellite for that of Hydrargyllite, as
better expressive of its chemical nature. He how-

ever, at the same time, alludes to traces of an acid

which he was unable to identify.

   In a letter to Mr. Nicholson, dated Killarney,
June 15, 1806, and which was afterwards published
in his Journal, Davy refers to this fact in the follow-

ing manner :

        DEAR SIR,

  I SHALL feel much obliged to you to mention
Ithat have found the acid which exists in minute

quantities in Wavellite to be the Fluoric acid, in

Isuch a peculiar state of combination as not to be
rendered sensible by sulphuric acid.  am, &c.

                                      H. DAVY.

My late friend the Heverend William Gregor,

having found the Wavellite at Stenna Gwynn, in

Cornwall, submitted it to experiment, and the result

certainly established the conclusion of the presence
of fluoric acid, though not rendered apparent by

the usual tests. The facts were transmitted to the

Royal Society, and published in a paper entitled,
" On a mineral Substance, formerly supposed to be

Zeolite ; by the Reverend William Gregor."

The subsequent experiments of Berzelius, how-

ever, cleared away the obscurity in which the subject

was still involved. He showed that this mineral

not only contained in its composition a small portion

of the neutral fluate ofalumina, but he demonstrated
VOL. i.  p

210 THE LIFE OF

the presence of a sub-phosphate of that earth, to no
inconsiderable an amount. Much has been said of the
error committed on this occasion by Davy, in over-
looking thirty -three per cent, of phosphoric acid ;
but the phosphate of alumina is a body that might

very easily have escaped notice at a period when
mineral analysis was in a far less advanced state than

it is at present.
   On the 16th of May 1805, Davy communicated

to the Royal Society a paper " On the method of
analyzing Stones containing a fixed Alkali, by means
of the Boracic Acid." This method was founded

upon two important facts : first, on the considerable
attraction of boracic acid for the different simple
earths at the heat of ignition ; and, secondly, on the
facility with which the compounds so formed are
decomposed by the mineral acids. The processes
are extremely simple, and the method must be
considered as having advanced the art of mineral

analysis.

   For this and his preceding papers, the President
and Council of the Royal Society adjudged to him

their Copley medal.

   In 1806, Mr. Poole, having consulted Davy on
the subject of a Mine occurring near Nether Stowy,

received from him the following letter, which is
interesting from the political opinions it displays.

                     TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

       MY DEAR POOLE,
   WHAT you have written concerning the indif-
ference of men with regard to the interest of the
species in future ages, is perfectly just and philo-

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                            211

sophical ; but the greatest misfortune     :                  that men
                                                  !
do not attend even to their own interest, and to the
                                                      is is,
interest of their own age in public matters. They

think in moments, instead of thinking, as they ought

to do, in years and they are guided by expediency
                 ;
rather than by reason. The true political maxim is,;

that the good of the whole community the good;

of every individual; but how few statesmen have

ever been guided by this principle In almost all

governments, the plan has been to sacrifice one part

of the community to other parts sometimes, the

people to the aristocracy at other times, the aristo-
                               ;I
cracy to the people sometimes, the Colonies to the;
                                        ;
Mother- country and at other times, the Mother-

country to the Colonies. A generous enlightened

policy has never existed in Europe since the days
of Alfred and what has been called " the balance of
power " the support of civilization, has been pro-
       I
duced only by jealousy, envy, bitterness, contest,;

and eternal war, either carried on by pens or cannon,

destroying men morally and physically But                     iIf
                                           a
proceed in vague political declamation, shall have
no room left for the main object of my letter your!I

Mine.          wish had been in my power to write
                 :

                      it
decidedly on the subject but your county                      is

                                                                   a

peculiar one such indications would be highly fa-

vourable in Cornwall but in shell-limestone of

late formation, there have as yet been no instances

of great copper mines.                   hope, however, that your

mine will produce rich store offacts.a

Miners from Alston Moor, or from Derbyshire,

would understand your country better than Cornish

miners, for the Cornish shifts are wholly different

212 THE LIFE OF

from yours. It would be well for you to have some

workmen at least from the North, as they are well

acquainted with shell-limestone.

The Ecton copper mine in Staffordshire is in this

rock : it would be right for you to get a plan and

a history of that mine, which might possibly assist

your views.                                 am

  I IIHad been rich, would adventure ; but
Ijust going to embark with all the little money

have been able to save for a scientific expedition to

INorway, Lapland, and Sweden. In all climes,

shall be your warm and sincere friend,

                                                    H. DAVY.

On the death of Dr. Edward Whitaker Gray,

Secretary of the Royal Society, Davy was elected
into that office, at an extraordinary meeting of the

Society, on the 22nd of January 1807; and at the

same time he was elected a member of the Council.

We are now advancing to that brilliant period in

the history of our philosopher, at which he effected

those grand discoveries in science, which will trans-

mit his name to posterity, associated with those of

INewton, Bacon, Locke, and the great master-spirits
of every age and country :        speak of his develope-

ment of the LAWS OF VOLTAIC ELECTRICITY.

  I approach the subject with that diffidence which

the contemplation of mighty achievements must

ever produce in the mind of the historian, when he

compares the extent and magnitude of his subject

with the limited and feeble powers which are to

describe them.

As the advantages afforded by the history of any

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  213

great discovery consist as much in exhibiting, step
by step, the intellectual operations by which it was
accomplished, as in detailing its nature and appli-

Ications, or in examining its relations with previously

established truths ; so shall be unable to preserve

a chronological succession in the examination of
those several memoirs which he presented to the

Royal Society, without breaking asunder that fine
intellectual thread, by which his mind was con-
ducted through the intricate paths of nature from

Iknown to unknown phenomena. For this reason,

although announced, according to the date of its
publication, the subject of his first paper on elec-

Itricity, deferred entering upon its examination,
Iuntil might be able to bring into one uninter-

rupted view the whole enquiry, in all its branches

and bearings.

   It is impossible to enter upon the subject of gal-

vanism, or Voltaic electricity, without recurring to

the circumstance which first betrayed the existence
of such an energy in nature, and to the sanguine ex-

pectations which the discovery so naturally excited.
   On witnessing the powerful contraction of a mus-

cular fibre by the mere contact of certain metals, it

was rational to conclude, that the nature and ope-

ration of the mysterious power of vital irritability
might, at length, be discovered by a new train of

scientific research. It is a curious fact, that an

experiment so full of promise to the physiologist

should have hitherto failed in affording him any

assistance in his investigations; while the chemist,
to whom it did not, at first, appear to offer any one
single point of interest, has derived from it a new

214 THE LIFE OF

and highly important instrument of research, which
has already, under the guidance of Davy, multiplied
discoveries with such rapidity, and to such an ex-
tent, that it is not even possible to anticipate the
limits of its power.

   We have here, then, another striking instance of

a great effect produced by means apparently insig-

nificant. Who could have imagined it possible,
that the spasmodic action occasioned in the limb of
a frog, by the accidental contact of a pair of scissors,
should have become the means of changing the
whole theory of chemistry of discovering sub-

stances, whose very existence was never suspected

of explaining the anomalous associations of mineral
bodies in the veins of the earth of protecting
surfaces of metal from the corrosive action of the
elements of elucidating the theories of volcanoes
and earthquakes and, may we not add? of leading
the way to a knowledge of the laws of terrestrial

magnetism !

   Such an unexpected extension of an apparently
useless fact should dispose us to entertain a kinder
regard for the labours of one another, and teach us
to judge with diffidence of the abstract results of

science. A discovery which may appear incapable

of useful application to-day, may be our glory to-
morrow, it may even change the face of empires,
and wield the destiny of nations.

   The conic sections of Apollonius Perggeus re-
mained useless for two thousand years : who could
have supposed that, after the lapse of twenty cen-
turies, they would have formed the basis of astro-

nomy ? a science giving to navigation safety, guid-

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

ing the pilot through unknown seas, and tracing for

him in the heavens an unerring path to his native

shores.

  ISome apology may be necessary for this digres-

sion ; but, confess, the subject has always appeared
Ito me to be capable of much interesting illustration,

and heartily concur in the opinion expressed by

t"hUe Haicsctoomirpelisdheesdgraauntdhsor    of    "Lettres   a Sophie"
                                                    par les  petites causes
                                           ejfets

ferait un livre bien curieux"

216 THE LIFE OF

                   CHAPTER VI.

The History of Galvanism divided into six grand Epochs. Davy
    extends the experiment of Nicholson and Carlisle. His Pile of
   one metal and two fluids. Dr. Wollaston advocates the doc-
   trine of oxidation being the primary cause of Voltaic Phenomena.
       Davy's modification of that theory. His Bakerian Lecture of
    1806. He discovers the sources of the Acid and Alkaline matter
   eliminated from water by Voltaic action. On the nature of
   Electrical decomposition and transfer. On the relations be-
   tween the Electrical energies of bodies, and their Chemical Affi-
   nities General developement of the Electro-chemical Laws.
    Illustrations, Applications, and Conclusions.

   THE History of Galvanism may be divided into

six grand epochs ; each being distinguished by the

discovery of facts variously interesting from their
novelty, and from the extent and importance of their

Iapplications.

  It cannot be expected that should enter into a

minute history of the science ; such a labour would

Irequire a distinct work for its accomplishment.

shall therefore follow the plan of the architect, who,
in presenting a finished drawing of a part, sketches
a faint outline of the whole edifice to which it
belongs, in order that its fair proportions may appear
in proper breadth and relief.

    The FIRST EPOCH may be considered as arising
out of the fundamental fact discovered by Galvani

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  217

in 1790 that the contact of two different metals
with the nerve of a recently killed frog will excite

distinct muscular contractions.
   THE SECOND EPOCH may be dated from the dis-

covery of what might be termed Organic Galvanism,
or the production of its influence, without the pre-
sence of animal organs, by the peculiar action of
metals upon water, as first observed by Dr. Ash.

   THE THIRD EPOCH will long be celebrated on
account of the discovery of the accumulation of the
Galvanic power, by the invention of the pile of
Volta, made known in the first year of the present

century, and which so distinctly exhibited the ana-
logy between Galvanism and Electricity, that the
energy thus excited is now generally spoken of as
" Voltaic Electricity."

    THE FOURTH EPOCH may be considered as found-
ed upon the knowledge of the general connexion
between the excitement of Voltaic electricity and

 chemical changes.

    THE FIFTH EPOCH is exclusively indebted for
its origin to Davy the establishment of the gene-

 ral law, that Galvanism decomposes all compound
 bodies, and that the decomposition takes place in a

 certain determinate manner.

    THE SIXTH AND LAST EPOCH is founded upon
 the discovery of the relations subsisting between

 electricity and magnetism ; giving origin to a new
 branch of science, which has been distinguished by
 the name of " ELECTRO-MAGNETISM."

    Galvani,* from the moment of his first discovery,

   * The simple fact relating to the action of metals on the ani-
mal organs was certainly not first observed by Galvani, but by

   218 THE LIFE OF

   always referred the effects he produced to an elec-
   trical origin ; but he considered that the metals em-
   ployed merely acted as conductors, which effected
   a communication between the different parts of an
   animal, naturally, or by some process of nature, in
   opposite states of electricity, and that the muscular
   contractions took place during the restoration of the

   equilibrium.

      Until the researches of Dr. Ash,* Hitter, Fabroni,

   and Creve, had been made known, the Galvanic

   influence was generally considered as existing only
   in the living organs of animals, from which it might

   be elicited by certain processes.

      In the Bakerian Lecture f read before the Royal

   Sulzer, who has described the sensation of taste produced by the

   contact of lead and silver with the tongue, in his Tkeorie des

   Plaisirs, in 1767.

      *  M. Humboldt (Ueber     die gereize Faser,  1. 473,  1797,)   quotes
   part  of a letter from Dr.  Ash, in which it     is said
                                                             that, "  if two

   finely polished plates of homogeneous zinc be moistened and laid

   together, little effect follows ; but if zinc and silver be tried in the

   same way, the whole surface of the silver will be covered with oxi-

   dated zinc. Lead and quicksilver act as powerfully upon each

   other, and so do iron and copper. M. Humboldt says, that, in

   repeating this experiment, he saw air bubbles ascend, which he

   supposes to have been hydrogen gas from the decomposition of

   water.

     t As this lecture will be frequently mentioned in the progress of

   these Memoirs, in connexion with most important discoveries, it

   may be interesting to the reader to learn something of its founda-

   tion and design. I have therefore collected the necessary informa-

   tion from the Minutes of the Royal Society. Mr. Baker is well

   known in the history of Science, as an accurate observer with the

I  microscope, and as the author of several works on the subject. By

   his will, dated July 1763, he bequeathed the -sum of one hundred

   pounds, the interest of which he directed "to be applied for an

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  219

Society in 1826, Davy, in giving a retrospective
view of the progress of Electro-chemical Science,
very justly remarks, that the true origin of all that
has been done in this department of philosophy was
the accidental discovery of Nicholson and Carlisle,
of the decomposition of water by the pile of Volta,
on the 30th of April, in the year 1800 ; which was
immediately followed by that of the decomposition
of certain metallic solutions, and by the observation
of the separation of alkali on the negative plates of
the apparatus. Mr. Cruickshank, in pursuing these

experiments, obtained many new and important re-

sults, such as the decomposition of the muriates of

magnesia, soda, and ammonia ; and also observed

the fact, that alkaline matter always appeared at the

negative, and acid matter at the positive pole.*

   No sooner had Davy become acquainted with the
curious experiments of Nicholson and Carlisle, than,

Oration or Discourse, to be read or spoken yearly by some one of
the Fellows of the Royal Society, on such parts of Natural History,

or Experimental Philosophy, at such time, and in such manner, as
the President and Council of the said Society shall please to order

and appoint ; on condition, nevertheless, that if any one year shall

pass after the payment of the said hundred pounds, without such

oration or discourse having been read or spoken at some Meeting
of the said Royal Society, the said hundred pounds shall then be-
come forfeited, and shall be repaid by the said Society to his
executors," &c. Baker died in November 1774, and in the follow-

ing year a Fellow was nominated to read the lecture. It is a

whimsical circumstance, that the first lecturer should have been

PETER WOULFE, the last of the alchemists. The names of the

successive lecturers were as follow : Dr. Ingenhouz, Mr. Cavallo,
Mr. Vince, Dr. Wollaston, Dr. Young, Sir H. Davy, Mr. Brande,
Captain Kater, Captain Edward Sabine, and Mr. Herschel.

   * Nicholson's Journal, vol. iv. p. 190.

220 THE LIFE OF

as we learn from his letter to Mr. Gilbert,* bear-

ing the date of July 1800, lie proceeded to repeat

them. Indeed, it was the early habit of his mind

not only to originate enquiries, but without delay
to examine the novel results of other philosophers ;

and in numerous instances it would seem, that he

only required to confirm their accuracy before he

succeeded in rendering the application of them sub-

servient to farther discovery. This was certainly

the case with respect to the subject before us : he

was a discoverer as soon as he became an enquirer.

It is admirable to observe with what a quick per-

ception he discovered the various bearings of a new

fact, and with what ingenuity he appropriated it for

the explanation of previously obscure phenomena.
In referring to
                 the "Additional Observations"    ap-
pended to his "                                  find
                 Chemical Researches," we shall

that the moment he became acquainted with the
experiments of Dr. Ash, he proceeded to enquire

how far the fact, previously noticed by himself, of

the conversion of nitrous gas into nitrous oxide, by

exposure to wetted zinc, might depend upon galva-

nic action.

In the month of September 1800, he published

his first paper on the subject of Galvanic Electricity,
in Nicholson's Journal, which was followed by six

others, in which he so far extended the original

experiment of Nicholson and Carlisle, as to show

that oxygen and hydrogen might be evolved from

separate portions of water, though vegetable and

even animal substances intervened ; and conceiving

                 * See page 85.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            221

that all decompositions might be polar, he electrized

different compounds at the different extremities,

and found that sulphur and metallic bodies appeared

at the negative pole, and oxygen and azote at the

positive pole, though the bodies furnishing them

were separated from each other. Here was the dawn
of the Electro-chemical theory.

    In a letter to Mr. Gilbert, already printed in

these Memoirs,* he announced his opinion that Gal-
vanism is a process principally chemical ; and in a

subsequent communicationf to the same gentleman,
written on the eve of his departure from Bristol to
the Royal Institution, we discover a farther develope-
ment of the same theory, which, although modified

by future researches, became, as we shall hereafter
find, materially instrumental in establishing juster
views of the nature of Voltaic action.

   As soon as it was discovered that galvanic power
might be excited by the contact of metals, without
the interposition of animal organs, it was imagined

that the electricity was set in motion by the contact
of bodies possessing different conducting powers,
without any reference to the chemical action which
accompanied the process. This theory was naturally
suggested by the fact discovered by Mr. Bennett
several years before that electricity is excited by the

mere contact of different metals : thus, when a plate
of copper and another of zinc, each furnished with

an insulating glass handle, are made to touch by
their flat surfaces, the zinc, after separation, ex-

hibits positive, and the copper negative electricity.

* Seepage 110.  t Page 118.

222 THE LIFE OF

In this case, it is fair to conclude that a certain
quantity of electricity had moved from the copper

to the zinc.

   On trying other metals, Volta found that similar
phenomena arose ; from which property such bodies
have been denominated " motors " of electricity, and

the process which takes place electro-motion : terms
which have since been sanctioned and adopted by

Davy.

  It is on this transference of electricity from one

surface to another, by simple contact, that Volta
explains the action of the pile invented by himself,
as well as that of all similar arrangements. The
interposed fluids, on this hypothesis, have no effect
as chemical agents, in producing the phenomena ;
they merely act as conductors of the electricity.

   We have seen how early Davy had observed the

intimate connexion subsisting between the electrical
effect, and the chemical changes going on in the

pile, and that he accordingly drew the conclusion of
the dependence of the one upon the other. In fact,
the most powerful Voltaic combinations are those

formed by substances that act chemically upon each
other with the greatest energy ; while such as
undergo no chemical change exhibit no electrical
powers : thus zinc, copper, and nitric acid form a
powerful battery ; whilst silver, gold, and water,
which do not act upon each other, produce no sen-
sible effect in a series of the same number.

   Although, in this obscure region of research, we
are as yet unable to discover the nature of the power
by which electricity is accumulated, it was a con-

siderable step towards a true theory to have ascer-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  223

tained the insufficiency of the proposition that had
been offered in explanation of the phenomena.

   An investigation into the chemical activity of the
pile led Davy to the discovery of a new series of

facts, to which we find an allusion in his former

letters to Mr. Gilbert, and which subsequently

formed the basis of his first communication read
before the Royal Society on the 18th of June in the

same year.

  All the combinations analogous to the Voltaic

pile had hitherto consisted of a series containing, at

least, two metallic bodies, (or one metal and char-

coal,) and a stratum of fluid. Davy discovered that
an accumulation of galvanic energy, exactly similar
to that in the common pile, might be produced by
the arrangement of single metallic plates with differ-
ent strata of fluids ; so that, instead of composing a
battery with two metals and one fluid, he succeeded
in constructing it with one metal and two fluids;

provided always that oxidation, or some equivalent
chemical change, should proceed on one of the me-
tallic surfaces only.

   In describing these combinations of a single metal

with two fluids, he divides them into three classes,
following in the arrangement the order of time with

regard to their discovery.

   In the First Class, one side of the metallic plate

is oxidated ; in the Second, a sulphuret is formed on
one of its surfaces ; and in the Third, both sides are

acted upon, the metal becoming a sulphuret on one
of its surfaces, and an oxide on the other.

    The apparatus which he employed for these expe-
riments is preserved in the laboratory of the Royal

  224 THE LIFE OF

 Institution. It consists of a trough, containing

 grooves capable of receiving the edges of the differ-
 ent plates necessary for the arrangement, one half of
 which are composed of horn, the other half of some

 one metal.

     When the apparatus was used, the cells were
 filled, in the galvanic order, with the different solu-
 tions, according to the class of the combination, and
connected in pairs with each other by slips of moist-
ened cloth carried over the non-conducting plates.

   At the meeting of the Royal Society, following

that on which the above interesting facts were com-
municated, Dr. Wollaston presented a memoir of
considerable importance, entitled, " Experiments on
the Chemical Production and agency of Electri-
city;'* in which he strongly advocates the truth of
that theory which recognises metallic oxidation as
the primary cause of the Voltaic phenomena. This
paper is also farther important as it proves, by most
ingeniously devised experiments, not only the simi-
larity of the means by which both common and gal-
vanic electricity are excited, but also the resemblance
existing between their effects ; showing, in fact, that

they are both essentially the same, and confirming
the opinion, that all the apparent differences may
depend upon differences in intensity and quantity.

   Acting upon this principle, Dr. Wollaston suc-
ceeded in producing a very close imitation of the
chemical action of galvanism by common electricity ;
such, for example, as the decomposition of water,
and other effects of oxidation and deoxidation.* In

   * M. Bonijol of Geneva has lately succeeded in effecting the de-
composition of Potash and the Chloride of Silver by ordinary elec-

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  225

the prosecution of this train of research, he displays,

in a very striking manner, that attention to minute

Iarrangement which so remarkably characterised all
his manipulations.  particularly allude to the ex-

pedients by which he reduced the extremity of a
gold wire, in order to apportion the strength of the

electric charge to the quantity of water submitted

to its influence.

   Although it is now very generally admitted, that
the chemical agency of the fluids upon the metals

employed is highly essential to the maintenance of

Voltaic action, there still remains considerable doubt

as to how far we are entitled to regard it as the first
in the order of phenomena.

  At a later period of his researches, Davy suggest-

ed as a correction, or rather modification, of the

tricity. His process consists in placing these substances in a very
narrow glass tube, and in then passing a series of electric sparks
from the ordinary machine through them. The electricity was

conducted into the tube by means of two metallic wires fixed into

the ends. When a quick succession of electric sparks had taken

place for about five or ten minutes, the tube containing chloride
of silver was found to contain reduced silver ; and when potash

had been submitted to the electric current, then the Potassium was

seen to take fire as it was produced. The same philosopher has
likewise contrived to decompose water by atmospheric electricity.
The electricity, in this case, is collected from the atmosphere by
means of a very fine point fixed at the extremity of an insulated
rod ; the latter is connected with the apparatus, in which the water
is to be decomposed, by a metallic wire, of which the diameter does
not exceed l-50th of an inch. In this way the decomposition of
the water proceeds in a continuous and rapid manner, although the
atmospheric electricity be not strong. Stormy weather, it is said,

is quite sufficient for the purpose. Bib. Univers. 1830, p. 2 13. and
Royal Institution Journal, No. 2.

VOL. I.             Q

226 THE LIFE OF

theory of Volta, that the electro-motion produced
by the contact of the metals might be the primary
cause of the chemical changes ; and that such changes
were in no other way efficient, than in restoring the
electric equilibrium thus disturbed : it was farther
held, that this equilibrium could not be permanent,
that it could in fact be only momentary ; since, in
consequence of the imperfect conducting power of
the interposed fluid, the zinc and copper-plates, by
their electro-motive power, would again assume their
opposite states of electricity; and that these alter-
nate changes would occur, as long as any of the
fluid remained undecomposed. In a Voltaic ar-

rangement, then, there would appear to exist, if the

expression may be allowed, a kind of electrical see-
saw ; the apposition of the metals destroying the

equilibrium, and the resulting chemical changes

again restoring it. It has, however, been very just-

ly observed, that the application of electricity, as an
instrument of chemical decomposition, has most for-
tunately no connexion with such theories, and that
the study of its effects may be carried on without

reference to any hypothetical notions concerning the

origin of the phenomena.
   An interval of nearly five years had elapsed be-

tween the first communication which Davy made

on this subject, and the Bakerian lecture which is

immediately to be considered. During this period
several new facts had been added by different expe-
rimentalists, but they were scattered, disjointed, and
totally unconnected with each other by any rational

analogies.

   The constant appearance of acid and alkaline mat-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  227

ter in pure water, when submitted to the influence
of the Voltaic pile, gave rise to the most extravagant
speculations and discordant hypotheses. Various
statements were made, both in Italy and England,
respecting the generation of muriatic acid, and that
of the fixed alkalies, under these circumstances.

Mr. Sylvester affirmed, that if two separate portions

of water were electrised out of the contact of sub-

stances containing alkaline or acid matter, acid and
alkali would, nevertheless, be produced.

    Some philosophers sought to explain the pheno-

menon from the salts contained in the fluids of the

trough, which they imagined might, by some un-
suspected channel, find their way into the water

under examination. Others believed that they were
actually generated by the union of the electric fluid

with the water, or with one or both of its elements ;

so that, up to the time of Davy's masterly researches,
the subject was involved in the greatest obscurity ;
and whether the saline matter was liberated from

unknown combinations, or at once formed by the
union of its elements, was a question upon which

the greatest chemists entertained different opinions.
   The Bakerian Lecture, read before the Royal

Society on the 20th of November 1806, not only
set this question for ever at rest, but unfolded the
mysteries of general Voltaic action ; and, as far as
theory goes, may almost be said to have perfect-
ed our knowledge of the chemical agencies of the

pile.

   This grand display of scientific light burst upon
Europe like a splendid meteor, throwing its ra-
diance into the deepest recesses, and opening to

                                               Q2

228 THE LIFE OF

the view of the philosopher new and unexpected

regions.

  I shall endeavour to offer as popular a review of

Ithis celebrated memoir, as the abstruse and compli-

cated nature of its subjects will allow; and shall
be careful in pointing out the successive stages of

the enquiry ; for we are all too much in the habit

of exclusively looking after results ; whereas an

examination of the steps by which they were at-

tained is far more important, not only to the fame
of the discoverer, but to ourselves, as the means of

instruction.

    The subjects investigated in this memoir are ar-

ranged under the following divisions.
   1. " On the changes produced in Water by Elec-

tric2i.ty". On the agencies of Electricity in the decom-

position of   various compound Bodies.                            Parts
   3. " On
              the transfer of certain constituent

of  4B. od"ieOsnbtyhethepaasscatigoen  of  Electricity.
                                       of  Acids, Alkalies,
                                                             and  other

Substances, through various attracting chemical
menstrua, by means of Electricity.

   5. " Some general Observations on these Phe-
nomena, and on the mode of Decomposition and
Transition.

   6. " On the General Principles of the chemical

cha7n. ge"s   produced by Electricity.                      the Electrical
             On the Relations between

Ene8.rg"iesOnofthbeodmiesodaenodfthaectirionChoemf itchael  Affinities.
                                                            Pile of Volta,

with Experimental Elucidations.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          229

    9. " On some General Illustrations and Applica-
tions of the foregoing facts and principles."

   With respect to the first of these divisions, com-
prehending a history of the changes produced in
water by electricity, it is worthy of particular notice,

that as early as the year 1800, while residing at
Bristol, Davy had discovered that when separate
portions of distilled water, filling two glass tubes

connected by moist bladders, or any moist animal

or vegetable substance, were submitted to the elec-

trical action of the Voltaic pile, by means of gold
wires, a nitro-muriatic solution of gold appeared in

the tube containing the positive wire, and a solution
of soda in the opposite tube ; but he soon ascertained

that the muriatic acid owed its appearance to the
animal or vegetable matters employed ; for when
the same fibres of cotton were used in successive ex-

periments, and washed after every process in a weak
solution of nitric acid, the water in the apparatus
containing them, though acted upon for a great
length of time with a very strong power, produced
no effect upon a solution of nitrate of silver.

   In every case in which he had procured much
soda, the glass* at the point of contact with the

wire seemed considerably eroded ; when by substi-
tuting an agate for a glass cup, no fixed saline
matter could be obtained. Its source therefore, in

the former case, was evidently the glass.

   * It is perhaps a fact not very generally known, that glass, to a
certain extent, is decomposable by water : if some of it in a pow-
dered state be triturated with distilled water, in a short time the
turmeric test will indicate a portion of alkali in solution.

230 THE LIFE OF

   With respect to Mr. Sylvester's experiment, al-
ready noticed, it was sufficient to say that he con-
ducted his process in a vessel of pipe-clay, which

not only contains lime, but may also include in its
composition some of the combinations of a fixed

alkali.

   On resuming the enquiry, it was Davy's first care
to remove every possible source of impurity : he
accordingly procured cups of agate, which, previ-
ously to being filled, were boiled for several hours
in distilled water ; and a piece of very white and
transparent amianthus, a substance first proposed for
this purpose by Dr. Wollaston, having been simi-

larly purified, was made to connect the vessels to-
gether. Thus was every apparent source of fallacy
removed ; but still, after having been exposed to
Voltaic action for forty-eight hours, the water in

the positive cup gave indications of muriatic acid,
and that in the negative cup, of soda! The result
was as embarrassing as it was unexpected; but it

was far from convincing him that the bodies thus

obtained were generated: but whence arose the
saline matter? Did the agate, after every precau-
tion, still contain some very minute portion of saline
matter, not easily discoverable by chemical tests?
To determine this question, the experiment was
repeated a second, a third, and a fourth time : the
quantities of saline matter diminished in every suc-

cessive operation, which sufficiently proved that the

agate must at least have been one of the sources
sought for ; but four additional repetitions of the
process convinced the operator that it could not be
the only one; that there must exist some other

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  231

 source from which the alkali proceeded, since it

 continued to appear to the last, in quantities suf-
 ficiently distinct, and apparently equal, in every

 experiment. This was extremely perplexing : every

precaution had been taken the agate cups had

even been included in glass vessels, out of the
reach of the circulating air all the acting materials
had been repeatedly washed with distilled water ;
and no part of them in contact with the fluid had

ever touched the fingers.

    The water itself then, however pure it might
appear, must have furnished the alkali. The expe-
riments were repeated in cones of the purest gold,
and the water contained in them was submitted to

Voltaic action for fourteen hours ; the result was,

that the acid increased in quantity as the experiment

proceeded, and at length became even sour to the

taste. On the contrary, the alkaline properties of

the fluid in the opposite cone shortly obtained a

certain intensity, and remained stationary.
   On the application of heat, the alkaline indica-

tions became less vivid, although there always re-
mained, after the operation, sufficient evidence to
prove that a portion at least was fixed, although

probably mixed with ammonia.
   The acid, as far as its properties could be ex-

amined, agreed with those of pure nitrous acid,
having an excess of nitrous gas.

  It was now impossible to doubt that the water

held in solution some substance which was capable

of yielding alkaline matter, but which, from the
minuteness of its quantity, had soon been exhausted.

   The next step, therefore, was to submit the water

                              THE LIFE OF

to a still more rigorous examination, which he did
by evaporating it in a vessel of silver ; when he had
the satisfaction to discover the l-70th of a grain of

saline matter.

   The water, thus purified in a vessel of silver, was
again subjected to Voltaic action in the cones of
gold. After two hours, there was only the slightest
possible indication of alkali ; and this was not, as
before, fixed, but entirely volatile.

   In every one of these experiments, acid matter

had been produced, and it always presented the cha-
racter of nitrous acid. Two of the great sources
of foreign matter had been detected and removed,
viz. the vessels, and the water employed ; it still

however remained to be explained, how nitrous acid

and ammonia could be produced in cases where pure

water and pure vessels had been used. In no part
of this elaborate enquiry is the penetration of Davy

more striking, than in his reasonings upon this
problem, and in the beautiful experiments which his
sagacity suggested for its solution.

   It occurred to him, that the nascent oxygen and

hydrogen of the water might respectively combine
with a portion of the nitrogen of the common air,

which is constantly dissolved in that fluid ; but if

this were the case, how did it happen that the pro-
duction of nitrous acid was progressive, while that
of the alkali was limited ? The experiments of Dr.
Priestley, on the absorption of gases by water, at

once suggested themselves to his mind as being
capable of solving this last difficulty ; for that dis-

tinguished philosopher had shown, that hydrogen,
during its solution in water, expelled the nitrogen,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  233

 whereas oxygen and nitrogen were capable of co-

existing in a state of solution in that fluid. It was,

 however, necessary to confirm the truth of this
 explanation by experiment, and he accordingly in-
troduced the two cones of gold, containing purified
water, under the receiver of an air-pump ; the ex-

haustion was effected, and the Voltaic pile brought
to act upon the water thus circumstanced ; after

eighteen hours the result was examined, when the

water in the negative cone produced no effect upon
prepared litmus, but that in the positive vessel did

give it a tinge of red barely perceptible.
    Had his series of experiments terminated here,

the truth of his conclusions would have been esta-

blished by the comparatively small proportion of
acid formed in this latter experiment ; but he deter-

mined to repeat it under circumstances, if possible,

still more unexceptionable and conclusive. Having,

therefore, arranged the apparatus as before, he ex-

hausted the receiver, and then filled it with hydro-

gen gas from a convenient air-holder ; he made
even a second exhaustion, to ensure the highest

accuracy, and then again introduced carefully pre-
pared hydrogen. The Voltaic process was continued

during twenty-four hours, and at the end of that
period it was found that neither the water in the
positive nor in the negative vessels altered the tint

of litmus in the slightest degree.
   Thus did he succeed in exposing the three great

sources of fallacy which had so long misled chemists,
with regard to the generation of acid and alkaline
matter in Voltaic experiments, viz. The impurities
of the vessels the foreign matter contained in the

                              THE LIFE OF

water and the compounds generated by the com-

bination of the nitrogen of atmospheric air with the
elements evolved from water ; and thus did he
establish, by an unbroken chain of incontrovertible
evidence, the important truth, that " water, chemi-
cally pure, is decomposed by electricity into gaseous
matter alone into oxygen and hydrogen."

   Out of the foregoing train of research very natu-
rally sprang the consideration of the decomposing

agencies of Electricity. It had been constantly

observed, that, in all electrical changes connected
with the presence of acid and alkaline matter, the

former uniformly collected around the positive,
and the latter around the negative surface of the

apparatus.

   In one of the earliest experiments, Davy had

also noticed that glass underwent decomposition, and
that its alkali always passed to the negative surface.

He was, therefore, led to enquire whether, through

electrical agency, different solid earthy compounds,
insoluble, or soluble with difficulty in water, might
not be made to undergo a similar decomposition.

We shall find that the results of the trials were
decisive and satisfactory. For conducting experi-

ments of this description, he hit upon the happy
expedient of constructing the cups with the mate-
rials which he wished to submit to experiment, and
then by introducing water into them, and forming
the necessary connexion by means of asbestus, he

completed the Voltaic circuit. In this manner he
submitted to experiment sulphate of lime, sulphate
of strontia, fluate of lime, sulphate of baryta, &c.

and with analogous results; the acid element in

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  235

each case passing to the positive, and the earthy base

to the negative cup.

   As, in the above experiments, the bodies under

examination were presented in considerable masses,
and exposed large surfaces to the electric action, it

became necessary to enquire whether minute por-
tions of acid and alkaline matter could, by the

same agency, be disengaged from solid combinations.

This point was very readily elucidated. A piece

of fine grained basalt, which, by a previous analysis,
had been found to contain 3*5 per cent, of soda,
nearly *5 of muriatic acid, and fifteen parts of
lime, having been divided into two properly-shaped
pieces, and a cavity, capable of containing twelve
grains of water, been drilled in each, was submitted,
as in former experiments, to the action of the pile.

At the end of ten hours, the result was examined

with care, when it appeared that the positively elec-
trified water had the strong smell of oxy-muriatic
acid, and copiously precipitated nitrate of silver;

while that which was negative affected turmeric,
and left by evaporation a residuum which appeared
to consist of lime and soda.

  A part of a specimen of compact zeolite from the

Giants' Causeway, and vitreous lava from ^Etna,
were each treated in a similar manner, and with

results equally satisfactory.

   Having thus settled the question with regard to
the disengagement of the saline parts of bodies in-
soluble in water, he proceeded to extend and mul-

tiply his experiments on soluble compounds, the
decomposition of which, as might have been sup-
posed, always proceeded with greater rapidity, and

236 THE LIFE OF

furnished results more perfectly distinct. In these

processes he employed the agate cups, with platina
wires, connected by amianthus moistened with pure
water; the solutions were introduced into these
cups, and the electrifying power applied in the

manner already described. In this way, sulphate
of potash, sulphate of soda, nitrate of potash, phos-
phate of soda, &c. were respectively examined ; and

in every case the acid, after a certain interval, col-
lected in the cup containing the positive wire, and
the alkalies and earths in that containing the nega-

tive wire.

   When metallic solutions were employed, metallic

crystals or depositions were formed on the negative
wire, and oxide was likewise deposited around it,

while a great excess of acid was found in the oppo-

site cup.

    With respect to the transfer of ttie constituent
Parts of Bodies by Electric Action, several original

experiments were instituted, and some important

conclusions established.

   Several facts had been stated, which rendered it

probable that the saline elements evolved in decom-
positions by electricity, were capable of being trans-
ferred from one electrified surface to another, ac-
cording to their usual order of arrangement ; but
to demonstrate this clearly, farther researches were
required, and Davy proceeded to supply the neces-
sary evidence. He connected one of the cups of
sulphate of lime before mentioned, with a cup of
agate, by means of asbestus, and filling them with
purified water, connected them with the battery.

In about four hours, a strong solution of lime was

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  237

found in the agate cup, and sulphuric acid in the
cup of sulphate of lime. By reversing the order
of arrangement, and carrying on the process during
a similar period, the sulphuric acid appeared in the

agate cup, and the lime in the opposite vessel. In

both these experiments (the acid in the one case,
and the lime in the other), the elements of the sub-

stance must have passed, in an imperceptible form,
along the connecting line of asbestus into the oppo-

site vessel.

   Many trials were made with other saline bodies,

and with results equally satisfactory ; the base always
passing into the vessel rendered negative, and the
acid into that which was positive.

   The time required for these transmissions appeared
to be, cceteris paribus, in some proportion to the
length of the intermediate volume of water.

   In the farther prosecution of the enquiry, Davy
discovered a still more extraordinary series of facts.
In the first place, he found that the contact of the

saline solution with a metallic surface was not in the

least necessary for its decomposition. He intro-
duced purified water into two glass tubes, and con-
nected with them, by means of amianthus, a vessel
containing a solution of muriate of potash. In

this case, the saline matter was distant from each

of the wires at least two-thirds of an inch ; and yet
alkaline matter soon appeared in one tube, and acid

matter in the other ; and in sixteen hours moderately
strong solutions of potash and muriatic acid had been

formed.

   The discovery of this fact became the key to that
of others. He very naturally proceeded to enquire

238 r        THE LIFE OF

into the progress of the transfer, and into the course

of the acid and alkaline elements ; when, by the use
of litmus and turmeric, he arrived at the following

conclusion, that acids and alkalies, during their

electrical transference, passed through water contain-

ing vegetable colours without effecting in them

any change. From which we are led to the consi-

deration  of the fourth division of the subject, viz,
          Passage of Acids, Alkalies, and other Sub-
" On the

stances, through various attracting Chemical Men-

strua, by Electricity."

   As soon as it was discovered that a power gene-
rated by the Voltaic pile was capable of destroying
elective affinity in the vicinity of the metallic points,
it seemed reasonable to suppose, that the same power

might also destroy it, or at least suspend its opera-
tion, throughout the whole of the circuit. The

truth of such a supposition was at once placed

beyond all doubt by the following very striking

experiment.

Three tubes, the first containing a solution of

sulphate of potash, the second a weak solution of

ammonia, and the third, pure water, each being
connected with the other in the usual manner by
amianthus, were arranged in relation to the pile, as

follow : the sulphate of potash was placed in contact
with the negatively electrified point, the pure water

with the positively electrified point, while the solu-
tion of ammonia was made the middle link of the

conducting chain ; so that no sulphuric acid could
pass to the positive point in the distilled water, with-

out passing through the ammoniacal solution.

   In less than five minutes after the electric current

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  239

had been completed, it was found, by means of lit-
mus paper, that acid was in the act of collecting
around the positive point ; and in half an hour the
result was sufficiently distinct for accurate exami-

nation.

   Other experiments were made with a solution of
lime, and with weak solutions of potash and soda,
and the results were analogous. Muriatic acid, from
muriate of soda, and nitric acid, from nitrate of

potash, were also transmitted through concentrated
alkaline menstrua, under similar circumstances,

and with like effects.

   Davy also made several experiments on the tran-
sition of alkaline and acid matter, through different
neutro-saline solutions, the results of which were

exactly such as theory would have anticipated.

   In conducting, however, these experiments of

electrical transference, there would appear to be one
condition essential to their success, viz. that the

solution contained in the intermediate vessel should

not be capable of forming an insoluble compound

with the substance transmitted through it: thus,

for example, Davy found that strontia and baryta
passed, like the other alkaline substances, very rea-

dily through muriatic and nitric acids ; and vice
versa, that these acids passed with equal facility
through aqueous solutions of the earths in question ;
but when it was attempted to pass sulphuric acid

through the same earthy solutions, or to pass the

earths through the sulphuric acid, that then the
results were of a very different character : the sul-
phuric acid, in its passage through the barytic solu-
tion, was arrested in its progress by the earthy body,

240 THE LIFE OF

                                                it

                                                             a
                                                                       a

                                                                                         it,
and falling down as an insoluble compound with

was carried out of the sphere of the electrical action,
by which the power of transfer was destroyed. The

same phenomena occurred whenever he attempted

to pass muriatic acid through solution of sulphate

of silver. We now come to the next division viz.
" Some general Observations on these Phenomena,
and on the mode of Decomposition and Transition."

   Davy considers that will be general expres-
sion of the facts relating to the changes and transi-
tions by electricity, to say, that " hydrogen, the

alkaline substances, the metals, and certain oxides,

are attracted by negatively electrified, and repelled

by positively electrified metallic surfaces and on
                                                   ;

the contrary, that oxygen and acid substances are

attracted by positively electrified, and repelled by
            electrified metallic surfaces." And more-
negatively  these " attractive and repulsive forces are
over, that

sufficiently energetic to destroy or suspend the usuala is

operation of elective affinity."
   Amidst all these wonderful phenomena, that per-

haps which excites our greatest astonishment the
fact of the transfer of ponderable matter to con-

siderable distance, through intervening substances,

and in form that escapes the cognizance of our
!

    a
"Itsenses Upon this question, Davy offers the follow-
ing remarks:  is," says he, "very natural to

suppose, that the repellent and attractive energiesa

are communicated from one particle to another par-
ticle of the same kind, so as to establish conducting
chain in the fluid and that the locomotion takes
I
                               ;
                                             :
place in consequence thus, in all the instances in

which examined alkaline solutions through which

         SIR HOMPHRY DAVY.  241

acids had been transmitted, I always found acid in

them, as long as any acid matter remained at the

original source. In time, by the attractive power
of the positive surface, the decomposition and trans-

fer undoubtedly become complete ; but this does
not affect the conclusion. In cases of the separation
of the constituents of water, and of solutions of neu-

tral salts forming the whole of the chain, there may
possibly be a succession of decompositions and re-

compositions throughout the fluid."

   We are next brought to a very important point
in the enquiry viz. " The consideration of the

General Principles of the chemical changes produced

by Electricity."
   The experiment of Mr. Bennett, already alluded

to, had shown that many bodies, when brought into

contact, and afterwards separated from each other,

exhibited signs of opposite states of electricity : but
it is to the investigations of M. Volta that we are
indebted for the clear developement of the fact ; for
he has distinctly proved it in the case of copper and

zinc, and other metallic combinations, and he sup-

posed that it might also take place with regard to

metals and fluids.

   In a series of experiments, made in the year 1801,
on the construction of electrical combinations, by
means of alternations of single metallic plates, and

different strata of fluids, as explained upon a former

occasion,* Davy had observed that, when acid and
alkaline solutions were employed as the elements of

these Vojfaic combinations, the alkaline solutions

VOL. I.  * Page 223.
                R

;                             THE LIFE OF;
                a
always received the electricity from, and the acida

always transmitted it to the metal. These principles          it,

seem to bear an immediate relation to those general;

aphenomena of decomposition and transfer, which
have been the subject of the preceding details.
                           ;
   In the most simple case of electrical action, the
                              a
alkali which receives electricity from the metal
;would necessarily, on being separated from appear
            ;positive whilst the acid, under similar circum-
stances, would be negative and these bodies having
respectively, with regard to the metal, that which
may be called positive and negative electrical
energy, in their repellent and attractive functions,
would seem to be governed by the common laws of
electrical attraction and repulsion the body pos-

 sessing the positive energy being repelled by posi-
 tively electrified surfaces, and. that possessing the
 negative influence following the contrary order.

    Davy made number of experiments with the
 view of elucidating this idea, and of extending its
 application and, in all cases, their results tended, in

    most remarkable manner, to confirm the analogy.

    He proceeded, by means of very delicate instru-
 ments, to ascertain the electrical states of single

 insulated acid and alkaline solutions, after their con-

 tact with metals but the sources of errors were so

 numerous, as to render the results far from being
 satisfactory but in experiments on dry and solid

 bodies, the embarrassments arising from evaporation,

 chemical action, &c. did not occur. When perfectly
 dry oxalic, succinic, benzoic, or boracic acid, either in
 the form of powder or crystals, were touched upon
 an extended surface with plate of copper, insulated
                                 a

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             243

by a glass handle, the copper was found positive, the

acid negative. When again metallic plates were
made to touch dry lime, strontia, or magnesia, they
became negative : in these latter experiments the

effect was exceedingly satisfactory and distinct; a

single contact upon a large surface being sufficient

to communicate a considerable charge.

Numerous other trials were made, and the results

confirmed the principle ; and moreover proved, as

might have been expected, that bodies possessing
electrical conditions with regard to one and the same

body, possessed them with regard to each other :

for instance, a dry piece of lime became positively
electrical by repeated contact with crystals of oxalic

acid.

    These results  led him    to reason more fully upon
                   between    the Electrical energies of
the " Relations

bodies and their Chemical affinities."

   As the chemical attraction subsisting between two
bodies seems to be destroyed by giving to one of

them an electrical condition opposite to that which

it naturally possesses ; and since the substances that

combine chemically, as far as can be ascertained,

exhibit opposite states of electricity, the relations

between this energy and chemical affinity would

appear   to  be sufficiently   evident to    warrant the con-
clusion  at                   arrived, viz.
             which Davy                      that " the com-

    >inations and decompositions by electricity were

  /referable to the law of electrical attractions and re-

/ pulsions ;" from which he advanced to the still more

   important step "that chemical and electrical attrac-
   tions were produced by the same cause, acting in

one case on particles, in the other on masses."

                              R2

244 THE LIFE OF

From these views, he is led to propose the elec-
trical powers, or the forces required to disunite the
elements of bodies, as a test or measure of the in-

tensity of chemical attraction. An accurate inves-

tigation into this connexion, which may be called
the Electro-dynamic relations of bodies to their com-

bining masses or proportional numbers, would be the
first step towards fixing the science of Chemistry on
the permanent foundation of the Mathematics.

   If, then, the power of electrical attraction, and

repulsion be identified with chemical affinity, or

rather, if both be dependent upon the same cause, it

will follow that two bodies which are naturally in

opposite electrical states, may have these states suf-

ficiently exalted to give them an attractive power

superior to the cohesive force opposed to their
union ; when a -combination will take place which

will be more or less energetic, as the opposed forces

are more or less equally balanced. Again, when

two bodies, repellent of each other, act upon a third

with different degrees of the same electrical energy,

the combination will be determined by the degree ;

or, if bodies having different degrees of the same

electrical energy with respect to a third, have like-

wise different energies with respect to each other,

there may be such a balance of attracting and repel-

ling forces as to produce a triple compound ; and by

the extension of this reasoning, complicated che-

mical union may be easily explained.

Whenever bodies brought by artificial means into

a high state of opposite electricities are made to

restore the equilibrium, heat and light are the com-
                   It is perhaps an additional
mon consequences.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  245

circumstance in favour of the theory to state, that
heat and light are likewise the results of all intense
chemical action. And as in certain forms of the
Voltaic battery, where large quantities of electricity
of low intensity act, heat without light is produced;
so in slow chemical combinations there is an increase
of temperature without any luminous appearance.

    The effect of heat in producing combination may
be easily explained according to these ideas ; it not
only gives more freedom of motion to the particles,
but in a number of cases it seems to exalt the elec-

trical energies of bodies : glass, the tourmaline,

sulphur, and some others, afford familiar instances
of this latter species of energy.

   In general, when the different energies are strong

and in perfect equilibrium, the combination ought

to be quick, the heat and light intense, and the new
compound in a neutral state. This would seem to
be the case in the combination of oxygen and hydro-

gen, which form water, a body apparently neutral

in electrical energy to most others ; and also in the
circumstances of the union of the strong alkalies

and acids. But where one energy is feeble, and the

other strong, all the effects must be less vivid ; and
the compound, instead of being neutral, ought to
exhibit the excess of the stronger energy.

   The grand principle thus developed may enable
us to obtain new and useful indications of the com-
position of bodies, by ascertaining the character of
their electrical energies ; and we now find, in most

modern works of Chemistry, that bodies are arranged

according to their natural electrical relations; and
are said to be ELECTRO-POSITIVE, or ELECTRO-

246 THE LIFE OF

NEGATIVE, according to their polarities. The ad-
vantage of such an arrangement must be freely
acknowledged, for it has been the means of esta-

Iblishing analogies * of the utmost importance in che-

mistry, of which shall adduce some striking ex-

Iamples in a subsequent part of the present work,

when shall endeavour to offer a general view of
the revolution which chemical science has undergone
during the investigations of Davy, and contempo-

rary philosophers.

   After some further enquiries into the theory of
the Voltaic pile,| to which an allusion has been

already made, the author offers additional reasons

for supposing the decomposition of the chemical

menstrua essential to the continued electro-motion

of the pile; and if the fluid medium could be a

substance incapable of decomposition, there is every
reason to believe the equilibrium would be restored,
 and the motion of the Electricity cease. Having
 shown the effects of induction, in increasing the
 electricity of the opposite plates, he arrives at the
 important conclusion, that in a Voltaic arrangement

 the intensity of the Electricity increases with the

 Anumber, but the quantity with the size of the plates.

      theory which was subsequently confirmed by the
 experiments of Mr. Children.

    The paper concludes with " some general illustra-
 tions and applications of the foregoing facts and
 principles," and which the author thinks will readily

 suggest themselves to the philosophical enquirer.

     * It will be sufficient for my present purpose to point out those

  existing between Chlorine, Iodine, and Bromine.

    t See page 226.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  247

They offer, for instance, very easy methods of se-

parating acid and alkaline matter, where they exist
in combination in mineral substances ; and, in like

manner, they suggest the application of electrical
powers for effecting the decomposition of animal

and vegetable bodies.

   On exposing a piece of muscular fibre to the
action of the battery, he found that potash, soda,
ammonia, lime, and oxide of iron, were evolved on

the negative side, and the three mineral, together
with the phosphoric, acids, were given out on the

positive side.

  A laurel leaf, similarly treated, yielded to the ne-

gative vessel resin, alkali, and lime ; while in the po-
sitive one there collected a clear fluid, which had the

smell of peach-blossoms, and which, when neutral-

ized by potash, gave a blue-green precipitate to a
solution of sulphate of iron ; so that it must have

contained Prussic Acid.

  A small plant of mint, in a state of healthy vege-

tation, on being made the medium of connection in

the battery, yielded potash and lime to the water

negatively electrified, and acid to that positively
electrified. The plant recovered after the process ;
but a similar one, that had been electrified during a

longer period, faded and died.
   These facts would seem to show, that the electri-

cal powers of decomposition even act upon vegeta-
ble matter in its living condition ; and phenomena
are not wanting to show that they operate also on
the system of living animals. When the fingers,
after having been carefully washed with pure water,
are brought in contact with this fluid in the positive

248 THE LIFE OF

part of the circuit, acid matter is rapidly developed,
having the character of a mixture of muriatic, phos-

phoric, and sulphuric acids ; and if a similar trial be

made in the negative part, fixed alkaline matter is

as quickly developed.*
   Davy thinks that the acid and alkaline taste pro-

duced upon the tongue during galvanic experi-
ments, depends upon the decomposition of the sa-
line matter contained in the living animal substance,
and perhaps in the saliva ; and he farther observes
that, as acid and alkaline substances are thus evi-
dently capable of being separated from their combi-
nations in living systems by electrical powers, there
is reason to believe that, by converse methods, they
might also be introduced into the animal economy,
or made to pass through the animal organs ; and the
same thing may be supposed of metallic oxides ; and
that these ideas ought to lead to some new investi-
gations in Medicine and Physiology.

   He thinks it by no means improbable, that the
electrical decomposition of the neutral salts, in differ-
ent cases, may admit of economical applications ;
and that well-burnt charcoal and plumbago, or char-
coal and iron, might be made the exciting powers

for such a purpose. Such an arrangement, if erect-

ed upon a scale sufficiently extensive, with the me-
dium of a neutro-saline solution, would, in his opi-
nion, produce large quantities of acids and alkalies
with very little trouble or expense.

    * Reflecting upon this and similar facts, it has occurred to me
that Voltaic electricity might be applied for removing the blue co-
lour in the skin, occasioned by the internal use of nitrate of silver.
I hope to be able very shortly to submit this theory to the test.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  249

   Alterations in chemical equilibrium are constantly
taking place in Nature, and he thinks it probable
that the electric influence, in its faculties of decom-

position and transference, may considerably inter-
fere with the chemical changes occurring in differ-
ent parts of our system.

   The electrical appearances which precede earth-

quakes and volcanic eruptions, and which have been

described by the greater number of the observers of
these awful events, admit also of easy explanation

on the principles that have been stated.

   Besides the cases of sudden and violent change,

he considers there must be constant and tranquil
alterations, of which electricity, produced in the in-

terior strata of the globe, is the active cause : thus,
where pyritous strata and strata of coal-blende occur,

   where the pure metals or the sulphurets are found
in contact with each other, or with any conducting

substances, and where different strata contain differ-

ent saline menstrua, he thinks electricity must be
continually manifested; and it is probable that many

mineral formations have been materially influenced,

or even occasioned, by its agencies.

   In an experiment which he performed of electri-
fying a mixed solution of the muriates of iron, cop-

per, tin, and cobalt, contained in a positive vessel,
all the four oxides passed along the connecting
asbestus into a positive vessel filled with distilled

water, while a yellow metallic crust formed on the

wire, and the oxides arranged themselves in a mixed
state around the base of it.

   In another experiment, in which carbonate of
copper was diffused through water in a state of

250 THE LIFE OF

minute division, and a negative wire was placed in
a small perforated cube of zeolite in the water, green

crystals collected round the cube ; the particles not
being capable of penetrating it.

   By a multiplication of such instances, Davy re-

marks, that the electrical power of transference may

be easily conceived to apply to the explanation of
some of the principal and most mysterious facts in

geology ;* and by imagining a scale of feeble powers,
it would be easy to account for the association of the

insoluble metallic and earthy compounds containing

acids.

   "Natural electricity," observes our philosopher,
" has hitherto been little investigated, except in the
case of its evident and powerful concentration in

the atmosphere. Its slow and silent operations in
every part of the surface will probably be found

more immediately and importantly connected with
the order and economy of nature ; and investiga-

tions on this subject can hardly fail to enlighten our
philosophical systems of the earth, and may possibly

place new powers within our reach."

IThus concludes one of the most masterly and
powerful productions of scientific genius.  may

perhaps have been considered prolix in recording

the progressive researches by which he arrived at

his results ; but let it be remembered, that the great
fame of Davy, as an experimental philosopher, rests

   * During the contentions of the Neptunists and Plutonists, al-

luded to in a former part of this work, specimens were produced
exhibiting the intermixture of mineral bodies, which was completely
hostile to all theory. These anomalies now receive a plausible ex-
planation from the agencies of Voltaic electricity.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      251

upon this single memoir ; and though the secondary

results to be hereafter considered, may be more

dazzling to ordinary minds, yet in the judgment
of every scientific observer, they must appear far
less glorious than the discovery of the primitive
laws. Let me ask whether Sir Isaac Newton does

not deserve greater fame for his invention of flux-

Iions, than for the calculations performed by the
application of them ?  do not hesitate in com-

paring these great philosophers, since each has en-

lightened us by discoveries alike effected by means

invented by himself. Not only did both unlock

the caskets of Nature, but they had the superior

Imerit of planning and constructing the key.
       challenge those, who have carefully followed

me through the details of the preceding memoir, to

show a single instance in which accident, so mainly

contributory to former discoveries in electricity, had

any share in conducting its author to truth. Step

by step did he, with philosophic caution and un-

wearied perseverance, unfold all the particular phe-

nomena and details of his subject ; his genius then

took flight, and with an eagle's eye caught the plan
Aof the whole.
                new science has been thus crea-

ted ; and so important and extensive are its applica-

tions, so boundless and sublime its views, that we

may fairly anticipate the fulfilment of those pro-

phetic words of Dr. Priestley, who, in the preface to

his History of Electricity,* exclaims "Electricity

seems to be giving us an inlet into the internal

   * The History and Present State of Electricity ; by Jos. Priest-
ley, LL.D. F.R.S., &c. London, 1795.

                               THE LIFE OF

structure of bodies, on which all their sensible pro-
perties depend. By pursuing this new light, there-
fore, the bounds of natural science may possibly be

extended beyond what we can now form any idea
of. New worlds may open to our view, and the

glory of the great Sir Isaac Newton himself, and all
his contemporaries, be eclipsed by a new set of phi-
losophers, in quite a new field of speculation. Could
that great man revisit the earth, and view the ex-
periments of the present race of electricians, he
would be no less amazed than Roger Bacon, or
Sir Francis, would have been at his." In our turn
we may ask, what would be the astonishment
what the delight of Dr. Priestley, could he now
witness the successful results of Voltaic research ?
and what would he say of that mighty genius who
has demonstrated the relations of electrical energy

to the general laws of chemical action?* It was

his good fortune to have witnessed the discovery
which identified electricity with the lightning of
the thunder cloud : what would he have said of
that which identified it with the magnetism of the

earth ! Of this at least we may be certain, that he

would have expunged from his history the passage
in which he observes "Electrical discoveries have
been made so much by accident, that it is more the
powers of nature, than of human genius, that excite
our wonders with respect to them."

    * Dr. Priestley augured much from the talents of Davy. After
the publication of his first paper on Galvanism, he wrote to him
from America, and expressed the pleasure he felt on rinding his
favourite subject in such able hands. Priestley died in 1804, and

therefore did not witness Davy's success.

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  253

                 CHAPTER VII.

The unfair rivalry of Philosophers. Bonaparte the Patron of Sci-
   ence. He liberates Dolomieu. He founds a Prize for the

   encouragement of Electric researches. His letter to the Minister
    of the Interior. Proceedings of the Institute. The Prize is
   conferred on Davy. The Bakerian Lecture of 1807. The
    Decomposition of the Fixed Alkalies Potassium Sodium.
   The Questions to which the discovery gave rise. Interesting
    Extracts from the Manuscript Notes of the Laboratory. Potash
    decomposed by a chemical process. Letters to Children, and
    Pepys. The true nature of Potash discovered. Whether Am-
    monia contains Oxygen. Davy's severe Illness. He recovers
    and resumes his labours. His Fishing Costume. He decom-

    poses the Earths. Important views to which the discovery

    has led.

IT must be confessed that there has too frequently

existed amongst philosophers a strange and ungene-

Ifrous disposition to undervalue the labours of their
contemporaries.        a discovery be made, its truth

and importance are first questioned ; and should

these be established, then its originality becomes

a subject of dispute.
Truth, although she may have been rarely held

fast, has been frequently touched* in the dark: it

   * A most remarkable illustration of this fact occurs in the his-
tory of Locke, who certainly came as near to an important dis-

254 THE LIFE OF

is not extraordinary, therefore, that evidence may

be often strained from the writings of philoso-
phers in support of prior claims to late discoveries ;
but upon a candid review, these loose statements,
or obscure hints, will generally be found wholly
destitute of the pretensions which an unfair spirit
of rivalry has too often laboured to support. Many
of such hints, indeed, so far from advancing the
progress of truth, had never even attracted notice,
until after the discoveries to which they have been

supposed to relate.

covery as any philosopher who ever caught a glimpse of a truth
without seizing it ; but his statement did not, in any degree, hasten

the developement of that new branch of science which was reserved

for the genius of Dr. Black to investigate, and who a century later,

by the discovery of fixed air, changed the whole face of Chemistry.
The passage to which I allude is extracted from the Life by Lord
                                   I shall give it a
King, and is   so curious,   that                     place in this   note.
              produced a    large  bottle of Muscat   : it was clear  when
" M. Toinard

he set it on the table ; but when he had drawn out the stopper, a

multitude of little bubbles arose, and swelled the wine above the

mouth of the bottle. It comes from this, that the air, which was

included and disseminated in the liquor, had liberty to expand

itself, and so to become visible, and, being much lighter than the

liquor, to mount with great quickness. Quere, Whether this be

air new generated, or whether the springy particles of air in the
fruit, out of which these fermenting liquors are drawn, have, by the

artifice of Nature, been pressed close together, and there by other

particles fastened and held so ; and whether fermentation does not

loose these bands, and give them liberty to expand themselves

again ? Take a bottle of fermenting liquor, and tie a bladder on

the mouth.    Quere, How much new air will it produce ; and

whether this has the quality of common air ?"

Another instance equally illustrative of the manner in which

important truths will sometimes elude notice, even after Science

has approached so near as to touch them, is presented in the
history of the Barometer. Toricelli, the pupil of Galileo, while

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  255

   Although the importance of Davy's Electro-che-
mical discoveries could not for a moment be doubt-

ed ; their claims to originality, it would seem, were
not admitted without some question. The works
of Hitter and Winterl, amongst many others, were

quoted to show that these philosophers had imagined

or anticipated the relation between electrical powers

and chemical affinities ; but Davy very fairly ob-
serves, in a paper read before the Royal Society in
1826, that in the obscurity of the language and
metaphysics of both those gentlemen, it is difficult

reflecting upon the phenomenon which had so greatly perplexed
his master, viz. that water could not be raised above thirty-two
feet, in the body of a pump, rightly conjectured that the water,
under such circumstances, was not drawn, but pushed up into the
barrel, and that it could only be so pushed up by the force ofthe

atmosphere. It then occurred to him, that if mercury were used

instead of water, being heavier, it would not be pushed up so high
by the weight of the air. So, taking a glass tube of about three
feet in height, made air-tight at one end, he first filled it com-
pletely with quicksilver, and then closing it with his finger, re-
versed it in a basin containing that metal ; when he had the grati-
fication of seeing the liquid in the tube descend, as he had
anticipated. Here then was the discovery of the BAROMETER;
but it was reserved for another to find out that such an instrument

had been actually invented. Pascal first made the remark, that
the inference of Toricelli, if true, might be confirmed by carrying

the mercurial tube to a considerable elevation ; when the atmo-

spheric column being diminished, that of the mercury, which was

supposed to be its balance, ought likewise to be shortened in a

corresponding proportion. It followed then, that a measure ofthe

weight of the atmosphere, in all circumstances, had been obtained,
and consequently that of the height of any place to which the
 instrument could be carried. In this manner was a discovery
completed, which had for ages escaped the greatest philosophers

who had made the nearest approaches to its developement.

256 THE LIFE OF

to say what may not be found. In the ingenious
though wild views of Ritter, there are hints which

may more readily be considered as applying to Elec-

tro -magnetism than to Electro-chemistry; while

Winterl's Miraculous Andronia might, with as

much propriety, be considered as a type of all the

chemical substances that have been since discovered,

as his view of the antagonist powers (the acid and
base) be regarded as an anticipation of the Electro-

chemical theory.

  It would be worse than useless to speak of other

works, which refer the origin of Electro-chemistry

to Germany, Sweden, and France, rather than to

Italy and England ; and which attribute some of

the views first developed by Davy, to philosophers

who have not, nor ever could have made any claim

of the kind, since their experiments were actually

not published until many years after 1806, the date

of the Bakerian Lecture.

With regard to the judgment of posterity upon

Ithese points, but little apprehension can be enter-
tained.  well remember, in a conversation with
Davy, he observed, that " a philosopher might gene-

rally discover how his labours would be appreciated
in after ages, from the opinion entertained of them

by contemporary foreigners, who, being unbiassed
by circumstances of personality, will reduce every

Ifobject to its just proportions and value."

       we acknowledge the truth of such a standard,
and submit the posthumous fame of Davy to its

measure, where is the philosopher, in our times,

whose name is destined to attain a higher eminence

in the history of Science? Let the reader only

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  257

recall to his recollection the bitter animosity which

France arid England mutually entertained towards

each other in the year 1807, and he will be able to

form some idea of the astounding impression which

the Bakerian Lecture must have produced on the

Savans of Paris, when, in despite of national pre-

judice and national vanity, it was crowned by the

Institute of France with the prize of the First Con-

sul ! Thus did the Voltaic battery, in the hands of

the English chemist, achieve what all the artillery

of Britain could never have produced A SPONTA-

NEOUS AND WILLING HOMAGE TO BRITISH SUPE-

RIORITY ! But let not this observation convey the

slightest idea of disrespect, or be supposed to en-

courage any feeling to the disparagement of the

chemists of France; on the contrary, it is even a

question not readily answered, to which party the

triumph fairly belongs, to him who won the laurel

crown, or to those who so nobly placed it on his

brow ? They have set an example to future ages,

which may as materially advance the progress of

science, as the researches which called it forth :

they have shown, to adopt the language of an elo-

quent writer, that "the Commonwealth of Science

is of no party, and of no nation ; that it is a pure

Republic, and always at peace. Its shades are dis-

turbed neither by domestic malice nor foreign levy ;

they resound not with the cries of faction or of pub-

lic animosity. Falsehood is the only enemy their
inhabitants denounce ; Truth, and her minister Rea-

Ison, the only leaders they follow."
      shall avail myself of this opportunity to intro-

duce the Report drawn up by M. Biot, and made

VOL. i.  s

 258 THE LIFE OF

 in the name of a Commission appointed by the In-
 stitute to accomplish the intention of Bonaparte,
 who, when First Consul, founded prizes for impor-
 tant discoveries in Electricity or Galvanism.

   It is an opinion very generally received, that des-

 potism is hostile to the progress of Philosophy that

 the suspicion natural to tyranny, and the fear that

 light should expose its deformity, have, under such
 circumstances, inspired a dread of any thing, ap-
 proaching to freedom of enquiry. The conduct of
 Napoleon, not only during his Consulate, but even
 after he had assumed the Purple, is in direct opposi-
tion to such an opinion. Now that the excitements of
national hostility have subsided, and the asperity of
 our feelings towards that extraordinary man has been

softened by time and prosperity, we are enabled to
discern the bright and sunny spots in his character.

    Not to mention the immense plans which his
genius suggested for the internal improvement of
France, the annals of the Institute would furnish
innumerable proofs of the zeal with which he encou-

raged Science, and promoted its interests.

   His liberation of Dolomieu from the dungeons

of Tarentum was an act not only remarkable for the
considerate regard it displayed for Science, but for
the spirit and eagerness with which it was effected.
The French Government had repeatedly made the
most urgent demands for the liberty of one who

had reflected so much credit on his country; the
Danes had also directed the interference of their

Minister, and the King of Spain had added his

solicitations in vain: no sooner, however, had the

astonishing campaign which terminated by the vie-

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        259

tory of Marengo, completely established the French

Republic, than Bonaparte, in making peace with
Naples, stipulated for the immediate deliverance of
Dolomieu, as the first article of the treaty.

   The following letter from Bonaparte, addressed
to the Minister of the Interior, and by him trans-
mitted to the Institute, expresses the intentions of
the First Consul, in founding prizes for important

discoveries in Electricity or Galvanism.

  I" intend, Citizen Minister, to found a prize,

consisting of a Medal of three thousand francs,

(about one hundred and twenty pounds sterling,)
for the best experiment which shall be made in the
course of each year, on the Galvanic fluid.

  "For this purpose, the Memoirs containing the

details of the said experiments shall be sent before
the First of Fructidor, to the Class of the Mathe-

matical and Physical Sciences, which in the compli-

mentary days shall adjudge the prize to the author
of that experiment which has been most useful to

Ithe progress of Science.

   " also desire to give, by the way of encourage-
ment, the sum of sixty thousand francs to the person

who, by his experiments and discoveries, shall, ac-

cording to the opinion of the Class, advance the
knowledge of Electricity and Galvanism as much
as Franklin and Volta did.*

* " A celui qui, par ses experiences et ses decouvertes, fera a

faire a I'Ehctricite et au Gakanisme un pas comparable      a celui quont
                                                            mille francs
fait fair e a ces  Sciences Franklin et Volta."  soixantes
    My French
                   correspondent adds, " Ces

n'ont pas etc adjuges, le pas riayant point ete fait"

                   S2

260 THE LIFE OF

" Foreigners of all nations are admitted to the

competition.

  " I beg you will make known these dispositions

to the President of the First Class of the National

Institute, that it may give to these ideas such de-

velopement as may appear proper ; my particular

object being to encourage philosophers, and to direct

their attention to this part of philosophy, which, in

my opinion,          may lead to great discoveries.
                     " (Signed)
                                                          BONAPARTE."

   Upon the presentation of this letter, a Committee

was appointed to consider the means for accomplish-
ing the intentions of the First Consul ; and after
expatiating upon the extensive agencies of Elec-
tricity, their Report concludes in the following

manner :

   " To fulfill the intention of the First Consul, and

to give to the competition all the solemnity which

the importance of the object, the nature of the Prize,

and the character of the Founder require, the Com-

missioners unanimously         propose as follows :
                               Mathematical and Physical
   " The Class of the

Sciences of the National Institute opens the- general

com" pAeltlitiothne  required  by the First Consul.       Members
                     learned   of Europe, and the

and Associates of the Institute, are admitted to the

com" pTehteitioCnl.ass does not require that the Memoirs

should be immediately addressed to it. Every year
it will crown the author of the best experiments

which shall come to its knowledge, and which shall
hav"eTahdevapnrceesednttherepporortg,recsosntoafintihneg
                                                          science.     of  the
                                                           the letter

                    SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  261

First Consul, shall be printed, and serve as a pro-

gra"mDmoen. e at the National Institute, Messidor 11,

year 10.               LAPLACE, HALLE, COULOMB,
        " (Signed)

                       HAUY.  BIOT, Reporter."

  It was not until twelve months after the publica-

tion of his first Bakerian Lecture, that Davy received

the intelligence that the prize of three thousand

francs had been awarded him by the Institute of

France, for his discoveries announced in the Philo-

sophical Transactions for the year 1807.
   Mr. Poole, in a late communication, informs me

that he was in London soon after the letter com-

municating this gratifying intelligence had been

Ireceived from France ;

it to him, observed, "
                       and that Davy, upon showing
                       Some people say ought not

to accept this prize ; and there have been foolish

paragraphs in the papers to that effect ; but if the

two countries or governments are at war, the men
of science are not. That would, indeed, be a civil

war of the worst description : we should rather,

through the instrumentality of men of science,

soften the asperities of national hostility."
   After Davy had been elected Secretary to the

Royal Society, he appears to have been confined to
town during the autumn of 1807, when he wrote

the following letter.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,                August 28th, 1807.
I AM obliged to be in the neighbourhood of town

during the greater part of the summer, for the pur-

262 THE LIFE OF

pose of correcting the press for the Philosophical

ITransactions.
      made a rapid journey into Cornwall for the sake

Iof seeing my family ; and it was not in my power,

had received your letter at Lyme, to have accepted
your kind invitation.

  If C is still with you, will you be kind enough

Ito say to him, that wrote nearly a week ago two

letters about lectures, and not knowing where he

Iwas, addressed them to him at different places ?
I wish very much he would seriously determine on
Ithis point. The Managers of the Royal Institution

are very anxious to engage him ; and think he
might be of material service to the public, and of
benefit to his own mind, to say nothing of the be-

nefit his purse might also receive. In the present
condition of society, his opinions in matters of taste,

literature, and metaphysics, must have a healthy
influence; and unless he soon become an actual

member of the living world, he must expect to
be hereafter brought to judgment ' for hiding his

light.'
   The times seem to me to be less dangerous, as to

the immediate state of this country, than they were
four years ago. The extension of the French Em-
pire has weakened the disposable force of France.
Bonaparte seems to have abandoned the idea of in-

vasion ; and if our Government is active, we have

little to dread from a maritime war, at least for some

time. Sooner or later, our Colonial Empire must
fall in due time, when it has answered its ends.

   The wealth of our island must be diminished, but
the strength of mind of the people cannot easily

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  263

pass away ; and our literature, our science, our arts,

and the dignity of our nature, depend little upon
our external relations. When we had fewer colo-

nies than Genoa, we had Bacons and Shakspeares.

   The wealth and prosperity of the country are
only the comeliness of the body the fulness of the
flesh and fat; but the spirit is independent of
them ; it requires only muscle, bone, and nerve, for
the true exercise of its functions. We cannot lose

our liberty, because we cannot cease to think ; and

Iten millions of people are not easily annihilated.
      am, my dear Poole, very truly yours,
                                                   H. DAVY.

   While the Electro-chemical laws, developed in

Ithe last chapter, are fresh in the recollection of the

reader, shall proceed to the consideration of his

second Bakerian Lecture, which was read in Novem-

ber 1807; and in which he announces the discovery
of the metallic bases of the fixed alkalies, a dis-
covery immediately arising from the application of

Voltaic electricity, directed in accordance with those

laws ; thus having, as we have seen in the first in-

stance, ascended from particular phenomena to gene-

ral principles, he now descends from those principles

to the discovery of new phenomena : a method of

investigation by which he may be said to have
applied to his inductions the severest tests of truth,
and to have produced a chain of evidence without
having a single link deficient.

   Since the account given by Newton of his first
discoveries in Optics, it may be questioned whether

so happy and successful an instance of philosophical

264 THE LIFE OF

induction has ever been afforded as that by which
Davy discovered the composition of the fixed alka-
lies. Had it been true, as was most unjustly in-

sinuated at the time, that the discovery was acci-
dentally effected by the high power of the apparatus

placed at his disposal, his claims to our admiration
would have assumed a very different character : in

such a case, he might be said to have forced open
the sanctuary of Nature by direct violence, instead
of having discovered and touched the secret spring
by which its portals were unclosed. The justice of
these remarks will best appear in the examination
of his memoir: the highest eulogy that can be con-
ferred on its author will be a faithful and plain
history of its contents.

   It will be remembered that, in his preceding lec-

ture of 1806, he had described a number of decom-

positions and chemical changes produced in sub-
stances of known composition, by the powers of
electricity, and that in all such cases there invariably

subsisted an attraction between oxygen and the

positive pole, and between inflammable matter and

the negative pole of the pile : thus, in the decom-
position of water, its oxygen was transferred to the

former, and its hydrogen to the latter. Furnished
with such data, Davy proceeded to submit a fixed
alkali to the most intense action of the Voltaic ap-
paratus, well convinced that, should the electrical

energy be adequate to effect its decomposition, the
elements would be transferred, according to this

general law, to their respective poles.

    His first attempts were made on solutions of the
alkalies; but, notwithstanding the intensity of the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  265

electric action, the water alone underwent decompo-

sition, and oxygen and hydrogen were disengaged
with the production of much heat, and violent effer-
vescence. The presence of water thus appearing to
prevent the desired decomposition, potash, in a state

of igneous fusion, was in various ways submitted to

experiment ; when it was evident that combustible
matter of some kind, burning with a vivid light,
was given off at the negative wire. After nume-
rous trials, during the progress of which the diffi-
culties which successively arose were as immediately

combated by ingenious manipulation, a small piece
of potash sufficiently moistened, by a short exposure

to the air, to give its surface a conducting power,

was placed on an insulated disc of platina, connected
with the negative side of the battery in a state of

intense activity, arid a platina wire communicating

with the positive side, was at the same instant
brought into contact within the upper surface of

the alkali. Mark what followed! A series of

phenomena, each of which the reader will readily
understand as it is announced, for it will be in

strict accordance with the laws which Davy had

previously established : the potash began to fuse at

both its points of electrization : a violent efferves-

cence commenced at the upper, or positive surface ;

while at the lower, or negative one, instead of any
liberation of elastic matter, which would probably
have happened had hydrogen been an element of

the alkaline body, small globules, resembling quick-
silver, appeared, some of which were no sooner

formed than they burnt with explosion and bright
flame. What must have been the sensations of

266 THE LIFE OF

Davy at this moment! He had decomposed pot-
ash, and obtained its base in a metallic form.

   The gaseous matter developed, during the expe-
riment, at the positive pole of the apparatus, he
very shortly identified as oxygen. To collect, how-
ever, the metallic matter, in a quantity sufficient

for a satisfactory examination, was by no means so

easy ; for, like the Alkahest imagined by the Al-

chemist, it acted more or less upon every body to
which it was exposed ; and such was its attraction
for oxygen, that it speedily reverted to the state of

alkali by recombining with it.
   After various trials, however, it was found that

recently distilled naphtha presented a medium in
which it might be preserved and examined, since
a thin transparent film of this fluid, while it de-
fended the metal from the action of the atmosphere,
did not oppose any obstacle to the investigation of

its physical properties.
   Thus provided, he proceeded to enquire into the

nature of the new and singular body, to which he
afterwards gave the name of POTASSIUM, and which

may be described as follows.

   Its external character is that of a white metal,

instantly tarnishing by exposure to air ; at the tem-
perature of 70 Fah. it exists in small globules,
which possess the metallic lustre, opacity, and ge-
neral appearance of quicksilver ; so that when a
globule of the latter is placed near one of the
former, the eye cannot discover any difference be-

tween them : at this temperature, however, the
metal is not perfectly fluid ; but when gradually
heated, it becomes more so, and at 150, its fluidity

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  267

is so perfect that several globules may be easily

made to run into one. By reducing its tempera-
ture, it becomes, at 50, a soft and malleable solid,

which has the lustre of polished silver, and is soft

enough to be moulded like wax. At about the

freezing point of water it becomes hard and brittle,

and exhibits, when broken, a crystallized structure

of perfect whiteness, and of high metallic splendour.

It is also a perfect conductor both of electricity and

heat. Thus far, then, it fulfills every condition of a
metal ; but an anomaly of a most startling descrip-
tion has now to be mentioned the absence of a

quality which has been as invariably associated with
the idea of a metal, as that of lustre, viz. great specific
gravity. Whence a question has arisen, whether, af-
ter all, the alkaline base can with propriety be classed
under that denomination ? Instead of possessing
that ponderosity which we should have expected in
a body otherwise metallic, it is so light as not only to
swim upon the surface of water, but even upon that
of naphtha, by far the lightest liquid in nature.
Davy, however, very justly argues, that low spe-

cific gravity does not offer a sufficient reason for
degrading this body from the rank of a metal ; for

amongst those which constitute the class, there are
remarkable differences with respect to this quality ;
that platina is nearly four times as heavy as tel-

lurium. In the philosophical division of bodies

into classes, the analogy between the greater number
of properties must always be the foundation of

arrangement.*

   * The propriety, and even the necessity, of such a compact be-

come daily more apparent, as our knowledge of bodies extends. If

268 THE LIFE OF

So inseparable however, by long association, are

the ideas of ponderosity and metallic splendour,

that the evidence even of the senses may fail in

disuniting them.* This is well illustrated by the

following amusing anecdote. Shortly after the dis-

covery of potassium, Dr. George Pearson happened

to enter the laboratory in the Royal Institution, and

upon being shown the new substance, and inter-

rogated as to its nature, he, without the least hesi-

tation, on seeing its lustre, exclaimed, " Why, it is

metallic, to be sure," and then, balancing it on his

f"inJgBelers, s  he added, in    the    same  tone  of  confidence,
                                 it is  /"
                  me, how heavy

When thrown upon water, potassium instantly

decomposes that fluid, and an explosion is produced

we were to degrade a substance from its class, in consequence of

the absence of some one quality which enters into its more perfect

examples, we should soon find ourselves involved in paradoxes.

What idea, for instance, could we form of an acid? Its sourness ?

   Prussic Acid Arsenious Acid, are not sour. Its tendency to

combine with an alkaline or earthy base? If so, sugar is an acid,
for it combines with lime. I remember a chemist having been ex-

posed to much ridicule from speaking of a sweet acid Why not ?
   * In the language of Darwin, we should say, that the simple

ideas of weight and lustre, which form the complex idea of a metal,

have become so indissoluble, that they can no longer be separated

by volition. The principle admits of many familiar illustrations,

and is the source of numerous fallacies. When any one volun-

tarily recollects a Gothic window, which he had seen some time

before, the whole front of the Cathedral occurs to him at the same

time : in like manner, the taste of a pine-apple, though we eat it

blindfold, recalls the colour and shape  of it,  "CIotleisridagegrehaats   made
a good remark upon this subject. He                                       law of
                                         says,

the imagination, that a likeness in part tends to become a like-
ness of the whole." It is thus that we trace images in the fire,

castles in the clouds, and spectres in the gloom of twilight.

                           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                          269

with a vehement flame : an experiment which is

                             if,
                                 it

                                                  a
                                                                          is
rendered more striking       for water, ice be sub-

stituted in this latter case, instantly burns with
a
         is

                   ;

                     a
   bright rose-coloured flame, and deep hole
made in the ice, which will afterwards be found

to contain solution of potash.                                                   it

   It scarcely necessary to state, that these pheno-it

mena depend upon the very powerful affinity which
the metal possesses for oxygen, enabling even to

separate from its most subtle combinations.*

   One of the neatest modes of showing the produc-
tion of alkali, in the decomposition of water by the
basis of potash, consists in dropping globule of

potassium upon moistened paper tinged with tur-

meric. At the moment that comes into contact

with the water, burns and moves rapidly upon
the paper, as in search of moisture, leaving behind

       deep reddish-brown trace of its progress, and

acting upon the test paper precisely as dry caustic
it

     a

               if

                        it
                                          it

                                                                              a

potash.

* If we are disposed to enter into more critical examination of
                             in :
the subject, we shall find that, although the abovea                                 general

                                               a
                                                   in

                                                                              ;

                                                                         ; is
                                                                                  aa

                                                                                is
expression of the change produced, there are subordinate actions

of more complicated nature the metal, the first place, decom-
a
     a
poses portion of the water,  order to combine with its oxygen,

and form potash, which in its turn has powerful affinity for water;

the heat arising from two causes, decomposition and combination,

sufficiently intense to produce the inflammation. Water a bad
is
           is                                                                        part of
conductor of heat the globule swims exposed to air
                        ;

which dissolved by the heated nascent hydrogen and this gas,

being capable of spontaneous inflammation, explodes and commu-

nicates the effect of combustion to any of the bases that may be

yet uncombined. The manner in which the potassium runs along

the surface of water may be compared to drop of water on red-
is ;
                                                                     a
hot iron in the one case the hot potassium, in the other the cold

water, enveloped in an atmosphere of steam.

270 THE LIFE OF

From these observations, the reader will imme-

diately perceive, that the decomposition of the fixed
alkalies has placed in the hands of the experimen-
talist a new instrument of research, scarcely less

energetic, or of less universal application, than the

power from which    the discovery emanated. Davy
observes upon this  point, that " it will undoubtedly

prove a powerful agent for analysis, and having an

affinity for oxygen, stronger than any other known
substance, it may possibly supersede the application
of electricity to some of the undecompounded bo-

dies." So strong indeed is its affinity for oxygen,
that it discovers and decomposes the small quantities

of water contained in alcohol and ether ; and in the

latter case, this decomposition is connected with an

instructive result. Potash is insoluble in that fluid :

when therefore its base is thrown into oxygen
                                                 it it,
furnished, hydrogen gas disengaged, and the alkali,
                                                                   is
as regenerated, renders the ether white and
it
turbid.
     1 is is
But perhaps the most beautiful illustration of its

deoxidizing power afforded by its action on car-
              it

                      is

                                              :
bonic acid gas, or fixed air when heated in contact

with that gas, catches fire, and by uniting with

its oxygen, becomes potash, while the liberated

carbon deposited in the form of charcoal.

   As have already exceeded the limits originally

prescribed to myself, shall not enter into the his-
                    I

tory of Davy's experiments on the other fixed alkali,

soda, farther than to state that, when was sub-

mitted to Voltaic action, bright metal was obtained,
                       a

similar in its general characters to potassium, but

possessing sufficiently distinctive peculiarities as to

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  271

volatility, fusibility, oxidability, &c. To this body
Davy assigned the name of SODIUM.*

   In support of the metallic characters of these
alkaline bases, it may be necessary to state that they

combine with each other, and form alloys ; the pro-
perties and habitudes of which are very interesting,
and are fully described by their discoverer.

   No sooner had these results been made known to

the scientific world, than a question arose, both in
this country and abroad, as to the real nature of the

bodies which had been thus obtained from the fixed

alkalies, and which presented an aspect so obviously

metallic. At first, it was conjectured by a few, that

they might be compounds of the alkali with the
platina used in the experiments ; but this was at
once disproved by Davy having obtained the same
results when pieces of copper, silver, gold, plumbago,
or even charcoal, had been employed for completing

the Voltaic circuit.

   The effect which this and his subsequent disco-

veries produced, in revolutionizing the theory of
Chemistry, will form an interesting subject for dis-

Icussion in a future part of the present work :

shall therefore only remark in passing, that the fact
of oxygen, the acknowledged principle of acidity,
existing in combination with a metallic base, and
imparting to it the properties of an alkali, was no
sooner announced, than its truth was strenuously

denied. It was an attack upon opinions sanctioned

   * In his Bakerian Lecture of 1810, he informs us that he obtains
Sodium by heating common salt, which has been previously ignited,
with Potassium an immediate decomposition takes place, and
two parts of Potassium produce rather more than one of Sodium.

                              THE LIFE OF

by the general suffrage of the scientific world ; it
was, in fact, storming the very citadel of their phi-

losophy : no wonder, then, that the agitator should

 have been assailed with a full cry for his revolution-
ary plans.* M. Curadau read a paper before the
 French Institute, in which he endeavoured to prove,
first, that the conversion of the alkalies into metals
was not a deoxidation of those bodies, but a combi-

nation of them with new elements ; secondly, that
the affinity of the alkaline metals for oxygen was
merely a chemical illusion, occasioned by some body
the presence of which had not been suspected;
thirdly, that carbon was one of the elements of the
alkaline metals, since it could be separated from them
at pleasure, or converted into carbonic acid; and

fourthly, that if the specific gravities of the new

substances were less than that of water, it was be-

cause hydrogen was associated with carbon in the
combination. '

   It is scarcely necessary to state, that the presence

of carbon was readily traced to sources of impurity.
The hypothesis which assumed the existence of hy-

drogen as an element, was not so easily refuted. It

was espoused by MM. Gay Lussac, Thenard, and
Ritter, on the Continent, and by Mr. Dalton in

England. The former derived their inference from
the action of potassium upon ammonia, by which

* Many years afterwards, when Davy was travelling on the

Continent, a distinguished person about a foreign court, enquired

who and what he was ; never having heard of his scientific fame.

Upon being    told that  his discoveries had   revolutionized     Chemistry,
the courtier  promptly                        all revolutionists       his pre-
                         replied " I hate

sence will not be acceptable here."

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  273

they obtained a fusible substance that yielded by

heat more hydrogen than the ammonia contained ;

the latter contended that potassium and sodium are

proved to be hydrurets, by the very process employ-
ed for their production ; for, since common potash

is a liydrat, and oxygen is produced at one surface,

and potassium at the other, by Voltaic action, he

conceived that the former arose from the decompo-
sition of water, and that the hydrogen must there-

fore unite with the potash to form potassium. It is

a curious fact, that Berthollet, in the very sentence

in which he insisted upon the excessive quantity of

hydrogen disengaged in his experiment, as a proof

that potassium must be a hydruret, should have

stated that the addition of water to the residuum

was necessary for obtaining his result. How could

it have happened that he overlooked so obvious a
source of hydrogen ? Mr. Dalton, as well as Hitter,

considered the low specific gravity as favouring the

idea of their containing hydrogen ; but Davy ob-

serves that they are less volatile than antimony,
arsenic, and tellurium, and much less so than mer-

cury. Besides, sodium absorbs much more oxygen

than potassium, and, on the hypothesis of hydroge-

nation, must therefore contain more hydrogen ; and

yet though soda is said to be lighter than potash,
in the proportion of thirteen to seventeen nearly,

sodium is heavier than potassium, in the pro-

portion of nine to seven at least. On the theory

of Davy, this circumstance is what ought to have

been expected. Potassium has a much stronger
affinity for oxygen than sodium, and must con-

dense it much more ; and the resulting higher spe-

VOL. I.  T

274 THE LIFE OF

cific gravity of the combination is a necessary conse-
quence. In this manner did Davy entangle his op-
ponents in their own arguments, and establish, in

the most triumphant manner, the truths of his ori-

ginal views.

Thus then was a discovery effected, and at once

rendered complete, which all the chemists in Europe

had vainly attempted to accomplish. The alkalies

had been tortured by every variety of experiment

which ingenuity could suggest, or perseverance per-

form, but all in vain ; nor was the pursuit aban-

doned until indefatigable effort had wrecked the

patience and exhausted every resource of the expe-

rimentalist. Such was the disheartening, and al-

most forlorn condition of the philosopher when

Davy entered the field: he created new instru-

ments, new powers, and fresh resources ; and Na-

ture, thus interrogated on a different plan, at once

revealed her long cherished secret.

   In his Bakerian Lecture, Davy observes, that " a

historical detail of the progress of the investigation
of all the difficulties that occurred, and of the man-

ner in which they were overcome, and of all the

manipulations employed, would far exceed the limits

assigned to a Lecture." But to the chemist, every

circumstance, however minute, connected with a

Isubject of such commanding importance, is pregnant
with interest;  therefore considered it my duty

Ito search into the archives of the Institution, in the

hope that should discover some memoranda which

might supply additional information. In examin-

Iing the Laboratory Register, have so far succeed-

ed as to obtain some rough and imperfect notes,

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                    2?5

which will, to a certain degree, assist us in analysing
the intellectual operations by which his mind ulti-

mately arrived at the grand conclusion.

  It appears from this register that Davy com-

menced his enquiries into the composition of potash

on the 16th, and obtained his great result on the

19th of October 1807.* His first experiments, how-

ever, evidently did not suggest the truth : he does

not appear to have suspected the nature of the alka-

line base until his last experiment, when the truth
flashed upon him in the full blaze of discovery.
His first note, dated the 16th, leads us to infer that

he acted on a solid piece of potash, under the sur-

face of alcohol, and several other liquids in which

the alkali was not soluble; and that he obtained

gaseous matter, which he called at the moment

6 Alkaligen Gas,' and which he appears to have ex-

amined most closely, without arriving at any con-

clusion as to its nature. On the following day, he,

for the first time, would seem to have developed

potassium by    electric  naoctteionrecoonrdspothtaeshfacutndoef r"  oil
of turpentine,  for the
                                                                     the

globules giving out gas by water, which gas burnt
in contact with air;" and then follows
" Does it" (the matter of the globules)  a query
                                         " not form

gaseous compounds with ether, alcohol, and the oils?"

Here, then, he evidently imagined, that the mat-

ter of the globules, which he had never obtained
from potash, except when acted upon under oil of

turpentine, had formed gaseous compounds with

the ether, alcohol, and oils in his previous experi-

* On the same day he decomposed  Soda with somewhat  differ-

ent phenomena.            T2

276 THE LIFE OF

ments, and given origin to that which he had
termed ' Alkaligen Gas'

   He then leaves the consideration of this gas, and
attacks the unknown globules, which probably did

not present any metallic appearance under the cir-

Icumstances in which he saw them, for they must
have been as minute as grains of sand.                            rather

think that he commenced his examination by intro-

ducing a globule of mercury, and uniting it with a

g"loAbcutlieonofofthteheunsukbnsotawnncesuobnstaMnecerc, ufroyr,  his note  says,
                                                                     forms
                                                                            with

it a solid amalgam, which soon loses its Alkaligen
in the air." And from the note which succeeds,

he evidently considered this Alkaligen (potassium)
volatile, as he says " it soon flies off on exposure to

the air."

  October 19. It is probable that, in consequence

of the property which the unknown substance dis-
played of amalgamating with mercury, he devised

his experiment of the 19th. He took a small glass
tube, about the size and shape of a thimble, into
which he fused a platinum wire, and passed it
through the closed end. He then put a piece of
pure potash into this tube, and fused it into a mass

about the wire, so as entirely to defend it from the
mercury afterwards to be used. When cold, the

potash was solid, but containing moisture enough
to give it a conducting power ; he then filled the
rest of the tube with mercury, and inverted it

over the trough : the apparatus being thus arranged,
he made the wire and the mercury alternately posi-

Itive and negative. And now, conceiving that

have sufficiently explained his brief notes, the reader

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                277

shall receive the result in his own words : for this

Ipurpose have obtained an engraving of the auto-

Igraph, which is here annexed ; but as it may not be
very readily     dinecpiprhinetr.ed, "     shall  first give the sub-
                                                  potash was intro-
stance of it                            When

duced into a tube having a platina wire attached to

it so and fused into the tube so as to be a con-

ductor, i. e. so as to contain just water enough,

though solid, and inserted over mercury, when the

platina was made negative, no gas was formed, and

the mercury became oxy dated, and a small quantity
of the alkaligen was produced round the platina

wire, as was evident from its quick inflammation

by the action of water. When the mercury was

made the negative, gas was developed in great

quantities from the positive wire, and none from

the negative mercury, and this gas proved to be

pure oxygene A CAPITAL EXPERIMENT, PROV-

ING THE DECOMPOSITION OF POTASH." The Re-

viewer of the Institution Journal well observes

that those who knew Davy will best conceive the

enthusiasm with which this hasty record of his
success was dashed off, and will instantly recognise
tvpriKa in his " CAPITAL EXPERIMENT."

   From this same Register, it appears that, in the

preceding month, he was deeply engaged in experi-

ments on ' Antwerp blue,' which he found to consist

of Prussiate of Iron and Alumina, "probably in the
proportion of two-thirds of the former to one-third

of the latter."

On the 6th of October, we learn from the same

source, that he performed a beautiful experiment,
that of producing the vegetation of the carbon of

278 THE LIFE OF

the wick of a candle, by placing it between the
wires of the battery.

   On the 12th of the preceding September he
addressed a letter to Mr. Gilbert, which is curious,
as it shows that very nearly up to the time of the
decomposition of the alkalies, his mind had been
engaged on very different subjects.

TO DAVIES GIDDY, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR,  September 12, 1807.
  I INCLOSE Mr. Game's paper, which, when you
Ihave read, and Mr. Carne revised, will thank you

to inclose to me, and that as soon as possible, for

the completion of the volume.

  I have been a good deal engaged, since my return,
Iin experiments on distillation, and have succeeded

in effecting what is considered of great importance
in colonial commerce, namely, the depriving rum of
its empyreumatic part, and converting it into pure

Ispirit.

     mention this in confidence, as it is likely to be
connected with some profitable results ; and it may
be beneficial in a public point of view, by lessening

Ithe consumption of malt.
      have heard of no scientific news ; this, indeed,
is little the season for active exertion.

  IWith best respects to your father, and to Mr. and

Mrs. Guillemard, am, my dear Sir,

Always very faithfully yours,
                                 H. DAVY.

   Few notes have conveyed information of such
importance to the scientific world, as that which

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    279

 bllows, announcing, at the same time, the decompo-

sition of the fixed alkalies, and the formation of the
Geological Society, of which it would thus appear

that Davy was one of the founders.

TO WILLIAM HASLEDINE PEPYS, ESQ.

DEAR PEPYS,                          November 13, 1807.
IF you and Allen had been one person, the Coun-

cil of the Royal Society would have voted to you
the Copleian Medal ; * but it is an indivisible thing,

and cannot be given to two.

   We are forming a little talking Geological Dinner

I IClub, of which hope you will be a member.

shall propose you to-day. Some things have hap-

Ipened in the Chemical Club, which think render
Iit a less desirable meeting than usual, and do not

think you would find any gratification in being a

Imember of it. Hatchett never comes, and we some-
times meet only two or three.        hope to see you

Isoon.
       have decomposed and recomposed the fixed

alkalies, and discovered their bases to be two new

inflammable substances very like metals ; but one of

them lighter than ether, and infinitely combustible.

So that there are two bodies decomposed, and two

new elementary bodies found.         H. DAVY.
              Most sincerely yours,

   * He alludes to a Paper, entitled " On the Quantity of Carbon

in Carbonic Acid, and on the Nature of the Diamond ; by William
Allen, Esq. F.R.S. and William Hasledine Pepys, Esq." Commu-
nicated by Humphry Davy, Sec. R.S. M.R.I. A. Read June 16,

1807.

280 THE LIFE OF

   In the year 1808, MM. Gay Lussac and The-

nard succeeded in decomposing potash by chemical
means ; for which purpose it is only necessary to
heat iron turnings to whiteness in a curved gun-
barrel, and then to bring melted potash slowly in
contact with the turnings, air being excluded ; when
the iron, at that high temperature, will take the
oxygen from the alkali, and the potassium may be

collected in a cool part of the tube. It may like-

wise be produced by igniting potash with charcoal,
as M. Curaudau showed in the same year.

   In the following letter, Davy gives an account of
his repeating the experiment of MM. Gay Lussac

and Thenard ; mixing together, as usual, science
and angling.

TO J. G. CHILDREN, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR,            London, July 1808.
I HAVE this moment received your kind letter,
Iand have written to Pepys to propose to him to
Ibe with you on Sunday or Monday.
                                   hope for his
Ianswer to-morrow morning, and will write to you

Iimmediately.

      will procure all the fishing tackle you have

proposed, and am most happy to find you in so
Idetermined a spirit for piscatory adventure.
      have had some letters from France ; but nothing
Inew, except an account of the gun-barrel experi-
ment tolerably minute.  have tried it since, and

procured potassium, but it was lost from some mois-

ture passing into the aperture of the barrel. All
that is necessary for the process is a gun-barrel bent

                  -SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   281

thus, 2^^^^^^x>^;            B represents the part where

the touch-hole is closed ; here dry potash is intro-
duced ; and the middle, which is to be strongly

ignited, contains the filings ; the potash is gradually
fused and made to run down upon the ignited iron ;
the potassium collects in A.

  If you should be able to procure the apparatus
Ifor this experiment, should like to assist in repeat-

ing it; and could we procure a large quantity of

Ithe basis, we may try its effects, on a great scale, on
the undecompounded acids.    will bring some dry
boracic acid. A copper or platina tube, if you have
one, will be proper for trying the experiment in.
We may likewise try its action upon the earths,

Iand upon diamond.
      have metallized Ammonia,* without the appli-
cation of Electricity. When an amalgam of potas-

sium and mercury is brought in contact with an

ammoniacal salt, the potassium seizes upon the oxy-

gen, and the hydrogen and nitrogen unite to the

Iquicksilver.

      had an opportunity of giving an account, on

Friday, to the scientific men assembled at Green-
wich, of your magnificent experiments and appa-

            Sir Joseph Banks, Mr. Cavendish, Wol-

* He here alludes to a train of research, which will be consi-

dered hereafter.

f This observation relates to the magnificent battery constructed

by Mr. Children, of which    he presented an account   "toAntheAcRcoouynatl
Society, in a Paper read in  November 1808, entitled,

of some Experiments, performed with a view to ascertain the most

advantageous Method of constructing a Voltaic Apparatus, for

the purpose of Chemical Research. By John George Children,

Esq. F.R.S." The great battery described in this Paper consisted

282 THE LIFE OF

Ilaston, &c. all expressed a strong wish that the
results should be published.                   am most happy you

have drawn up the account.
I Iregard the days have passed in your society,
Ias some of the pleasantest of my life.
                                                   look for-

ward with a warm hope to our next meeting. Be

pleased to assure your father of my highest respect,

Iand of my gratitude for his kindness.
                                 am, my dear Sir,

                        Very sincerely yours,
                                          H. DAVY.

   It is impossible to reflect upon the chemical pro-

cesses by which potassium may be obtained, without

feeling surprised that the discovery should not have

long before been accomplished. It is evident that

the substance must have been repeatedly developed

during the operations of chemistry ; alkalies had
been frequently heated to whiteness in contact both
with iron and charcoal, and in some instances the

appearance of a highly combustible body, which

could have been no other than potassium, had even
been observed as a result of the process, and yet no

of twenty pairs of plates, each plate being four feet high by two

feet wide: the sura of all the surfaces was ninety-two thousand

one hundred and sixty square inches, and the quantity of liquid

necessary for charging  one hundred and twenty gallons. At
                        ; it,
                                            a
the same time he constructed another battery, which consisted of

two hundred pairs of plates, each being only two inches square.
In the one case, then, he commanded extent of surface, in the

other, extent of number and by series of comparative experi-

ments, he fully established the theory of Davy (page 246), that the

intensity of Electricity increases with the number, and the quantity

with the surface.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.        283

suspicion, as to its real nature, ever crossed the mind

of the experimentalist ; he satisfied himself with

Idesignating such a product, whenever it occurred,
by the term Pyrophorus*  remember the late Mr.

William Gregor informing me that, in the course of

his analytical experiments with potash and different

metals, he had repeatedly observed a combustion on

removing the crucible from the furnace, and ex-

posing its contents, which he could never under-
stand. How admirably do such anecdotes illustrate
the remark made in the commencement of the pre-

sent chapter, that truth may be often touched, but

is rarely caught, in the dark !
   The facility of the combustion of the bases of

the alkalies, and the readiness with which they de-

composed water, offered Davy the ready means for
determining the proportions of their constituent

parts : and in comparing all his results, he thinks
that it will be a good approximation to the truth,
to consider potash as composed of about six parts
base and one of oxygen ; and soda, as consisting of

seven base and two of oxygen.
   The discovery of potassium led to that of the true

nature of what had been long familiar to chemists

by the name of pure Potash, but which ought to

   * The Pyrophorus of Homberg, of which a description is to be

found in the Memoir es de V Academic, for 1711, was made by mixing

tog-ether any combustible body, as gum, flour, sugar, charcoal, &c.
and alum, and then, after roasting the mixture till it was reduced
to a dry powder, exposing it in a matrass to a red heat. In this
process, the theory of which was first explained by Davy, the
potash of the alum is converted into potassium, which, by its
absorption of oxygen from the atmosphere, generates heat, and

sets fire to the charcoal contained in the powder.

284 THE LIFE OF

have been called the hydrat, for the pure alkali was
not known until after the discovery of Davy. The

experiments of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard

have shown this substance to be a Protoxide. It is

difficult of fusion ; it has a grey colour and a vi-
treous fracture, and dissolves in water with much
heat. The Peroxide is procured by the combustion
of potassium at a low temperature ; it had been
observed by Davy in October 1807, but at that time
he supposed it to be the oxide containing the small-
est proportion of oxygen : it has a yellow colour,
and when thrown into water effervesces, and gives
out oxygen gas.* When heated very strongly upon
platina, oxygen is also expelled from it, and there

remains the protoxide, or pure potash.

   It was a great object writh Davy, to show that

the product resulting from the combustion of potas-
sium, was a pure oxide free from water ; for it is

evident that had potassium been a Hydruret, its
combustion must have produced a Hydrat. This
he accomplished by a series of experiments which
he performed in the laboratory of Mr. Children,
and which are published in his Bakerian Lecture
of 1800.

   Having discovered the presence of oxygen in the
fixed alkalies, he was naturally led by analogy to
enquire whether ammonia might not also contain it.

It was true that the chemical composition of that

body had been considered as satisfactorily settled,

and that the conversion of it into hydrogen and

    * The Potassa Fusa' of our Pharmacopoeia generally contains
 a small proportion of the peroxide, and will therefore effervesce

 when thrown into water.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  285

nitrogen, in the experiments of Scheele, Priestley,
and Berthollet, had left nothing farther to be accom-

plished. All new facts, however, are necessarily ac-

companied by a new train of analogies ; and Davy,
in perusing the accounts of the various experiments
to which ammonia had been submitted, tells us that
he saw no reason for considering the presence of

oxygen as impossible ; for, supposing hydrogen and
nitrogen to exist in combination with oxygen in
low proportion, this latter principle might easily
disappear in the analytical experiments by heat and

electricity, in the form of water deposited upon
the vessels employed, or dissolved in the gases

produced.

    Under this impression, he commenced a series
of experiments by which, he says, he soon became
satisfied of the existence of oxygen in the volatile
alkali. By means of the Voltaic battery, he ignited
perfectly dry charcoal in a small quantity of pure
ammoniacal gas, and he produced carbonate of am-

monia ; which could not have happened, had not
oxygen been furnished by the volatile alkali to the

carbon. In the next place, by an ingenious arrange-

ment of apparatus, he submitted ammonia to a high

temperature, and effected its decomposition, when
a quantity of water appeared as one of the products.

It will be useless to enter into farther details upon

this occasion, as we shall presently perceive the sub-

ject assumed a different aspect, and led the experi-
mentalist into a new line of enquiry.

   At the conclusion of his Bakerian Lecture of

1807, he speaks of the probable composition of the
earths, and considers it reasonable to expect that

286 THE LIFE OF

they are compounds of a similar nature to the
fixed alkalies "peculiar highly combustible me-
tallic bases united to oxygen ;" but, as yet, this
theory was sanctioned only by strong analogies ; it

was his good fortune, at a subsequent period, to

support it by conclusive facts.
   When the importance and novelty of the results

he obtained from the fixed alkalies, and their in-

fluence upon the reigning theories, are duly con-
sidered, it may be easily imagined how intense was
the curiosity to witness the production of the new

metals, to examine their singular qualities, and to

question the illustrious discoverer upon their nature
and relations. Suppose it were publicly announced
that one of the greatest Astronomers of the day
had invented a telescope of new and extraordinary

powers ; and that by its means a hitherto unsus-
pected system of heavenly bodies might be seen,
the character and motions of which were wholly in-
consistent with the Newtonian theory of the uni-

verse. The surprise and eager curiosity which such
an announcement would create might possibly be
more general, because a knowledge of Astronomy
is more widely diffused than that of Chemistry ;
but the sensation would not be more intense than

that which the discovery of potassium produced.
The laboratory of the Institution was crowded with
persons of every rank and description ; and Davy,
as may be readily supposed, was kept in a continued
state of excitement throughout the day. This cir-
cumstance, co-operating with the effects of the

fatigue he had previously undergone, produced a

most severe fit of illness, which for a time caused

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                 287

an awful pause in his researches, broke the thread
of his pursuits, and turned his reflections into differ-

ent channels.

   He always laboured under the impression that
the fever had been occasioned by contagion, to
which he had been exposed in one of the jails
during an experiment for fumigating it. This

impression appears to have continued through

life, for in 'fits "Last Days" he alludes to it in terms
of strong conviction.

   Other persons referred his illness to the delete-
rious fumes, especially those of Baryta, to which his
experiments had exposed him : an opinion recorded
in an Epigram,* which was circulated amongst the
members of the Institution after his recovery.

      fISays Davy to Baryt, " 've a strong inclination

      To try to effect your deoxidation
      But Baryt replies "Have a care of your mirth,

      ILest should retaliate, and change you to Earth."

   Upon conversing, however, with Dr. Babington,
who, with Dr. Frank, attended Davy throughout

* I received the above jeu d' esprit from the late learned Oriental-

ist, Mr. Stephen Weston, only four days before his death. Since

its publication in the first edition of this work, a chemical friend
                                             version of it.
sent  me the    following  Bimarpyrto,ve"dI  feel strong temptation
          Says  Davy to

      To effect by my art your deoxidation ;

      And the money I 've got in my pocket I '11 bet all,

      I prove you   a      true, though disguised lad of metal."
                   to      Davy, " A truce to your mirth ;
      Says Baryt
      If you turn me to metal, I '11 turn you to earth ;

      So moisten your clay, don't improve Science daily,
      Nor treat me as you 've treated poor Soda and Kali."

288 THE LIFE OF

this illness, he assured me that there was not the

slightest ground for either of these opinions ; that
the fever was evidently the effect of fatigue and an
over-excited brain. The reader will not feel much

hesitation in believing this statement, when he is
made acquainted with the habits of Davy at this
period. His intellectual exertions were of the most
injurious kind, and yet, unlike the philosophers of
old, he sought not to fortify himself by habits of
temperance. Should any of my readers propose to
me the same question respecting Davy, as Fonte-
nelle tells us was put to an Englishman in Paris,
by a scientific Marquis, with regard to Newton,

Iwhether he ate, drank, and slept like other people ?
       certainly should be bound to answer in the

negative.

    Such was his great celebrity at this period of his
career, that persons of the highest rank contended
for the honour of his company at dinner, and he did
not possess sufficient resolution to resist the gratifi-
cation thus afforded, although it generally happened
that his pursuits in the laboratory were not sus-
pended until the appointed dinner-hour had passed.
On his return in the evening, he resumed his chemi-
cal labours, and commonly continued them till three
or four o'clock in the morning; and yet the servants
of the establishment not unfrequently found that
he had risen before them. The greatest of all his
wants was Time, and the expedients by which he
economised it often placed him in very ridiculous
positions, and gave rise to habits of the most eccen-
tric description : driven to an extremity, he would
in his haste put on fresh linen, without removing

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  289

that which was underneath ; and, singular as the

fact may appear, he has been known, after the

fashion of the grave-digger in Hamlet, to wear no
less than five shirts, and as many pair of stockings,
at the same time. Exclamations of surprise very

frequently escaped from his friends at the rapid
manner in which he increased and declined in

corpulence.

  At the commencement of his severe illness in

November 1807, he was immediately attended by
Dr. Babington and Dr. Frank ; and upon its as-

suming a more serious aspect, these gentlemen were

assisted by Dr. Baillie. Such was the alarming
state of the patient, that for many weeks his phy-

sicians regularly visited him four times in the day,

and issued bulletins for the information of the nu-

merous enquirers who anxiously crowded the hall
of the Institution. His kind and amiable qualities
had secured the attachment of all the officers and

servants of the establishment, and they eagerly an-

ticipated every want his situation might require.

The housekeeper, Mrs. Greenwood, watched over
him with all the care and solicitude of a parent ;
and, with the exception of a single night, never
retired to her bed for the period of eleven weeks.

In the latter stage of his illness, he was reduced to

the extreme of weakness, and his mind participated

in the debility of the body. It may not perhaps be

thought philosophical to deduce any inference, as

Ito character, from traits which are displayed under

such circumstances : have little doubt, however,

but that the mind, like inorganic matter, will, in

its decay, frequently develope important elements,

VOL. i.  u

290 THE LIFE OF

which under other conditions were not distinguish-

able. Suppose pride and timidity to exist as qua-

lities in the same mind, the former might so far

predominate as to enable its possessor to face the

cannon's mouth ; but diminish its force by moral or

physical agency, the natural timidity will gain the

ascendency, and the hero be converted into a coward.

ISuch are my reasons for introducing the following

anecdote: would not give to it a greater value
than it deserves, but it surely demonstrates the

existence of kindly affections. Youthful reminis-

cences, and circumstances connected with his family

and friends, were the only objects which, at this

period, occupied his thoughts, and afforded him

any pleasure. No Swiss peasant ever sighed more
deeply for his native mountains, than did Davy
for the scenes of his early years. He entreated his

nurse to convey to his friends his ardent wish to

obtain some apples from a particular tree which
he had planted when a boy ; and, unlike Locke
with his cherries, he had no power of controlling
the desire by his reason, but remained in a state of

restlessness and impatience until their arrival: at

the same time, he expressed a wish to obtain several

other objects, especially an ancient tea-pot, endeared

to him by early associations.

The following Minute appears on the Journals of

the Institution :       Mr. Davy having been
   " December 7, 1807.

confined to his bed for the last fortnight by a severe

illness, the Managers are under the painful necessity

of giving notice, that the Lectures will not com-

mence until the first week in January next."

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                  291

The Course was, at the time stated, opened by
the Reverend Mr. (now Dr.) Dibdin ; and his intro-
           lecture was, by order      of the
ductory    " for the satisfaction of                        Managers,
printed                                those               proprietors
           not present." It thus
who were                                               commences:   of
           solicit your attention to                   the opening
I" Before
Ithose Lectures which shall have the honour of
delivering in the course of the season, permit me

to trespass upon it for a few minutes, by stating the

peculiar circumstances under which this Institution

is again opened ; and how it comes to pass that it

has fallen to me, rather than to a more deserving

lecturer,  to be the first to address you.             to  impart   to
           Managers have requested me
   " The

you that intelligence, which no one who is alive to

the best feelings of human nature can hear without

mixed emotions  of sorrow and delight.                 powerful    ad-

   " Mr. Davy,  whose frequent and

dresses from this place, supported by his ingenious

experiments, have been so long and so well known

to you, has for these last five weeks been struggling

between life and death ; the effects of those expe-

riments recently made in illustration of his splendid

discoveries, added to consequent bodily weakness,

brought on a fever so violent as to threaten the

extinction of life. Over him, it might emphatically
be said, in the language of our immortal Milton, that

                                       Death his dart
           Shook, but delayed to strike/

Had it pleased Providence to have deprived the
world of any further benefit from his original ta-

lents and immense application, there certainly has
                                        u2

292 THE LIFE OF

been already enough effected by him to entitle his

name to a place amongst the brightest scientific

Iluminaries of his country. That this may not ap-

pear an unfounded eulogium, shall proceed, at the

particular request of the Managers, to give you an

Ioutline of the splendid discoveries to which have
Ijust alluded ; and do so with the greater pleasure,

as that outline has been drawn in a very masterly
manner by a gentleman of all others perhaps the
best qualified to do it effectually."

    The Lecturer then proceeded to take a general
and rapid view of his labours, which it is unneces-

sary to introduce in this place, and concluded as
follows :

   " This recital will be sufficient to convince those
who have heard it of the celebrity which the author

Iof such discoveries has a right to attach to himself;

and yet no one, am confident, has less inclination
to challenge it. To us, and to every enlightened
Englishman, it will be a matter of just congratula-
tion, that the country which has produced the two
BACONS and BOYLE, has in these latter days shown
itself worthy of its former renown by the labours of
 CAVENDISH and DAVY. The illness of the latter,
 severe as it has been, is now abating, and we may
 reasonably hope that the period of convalescence is

 not very remote."
    Fortunately for the cause of Science fortunately

for the interests of the Institution, the prediction of
the learned Lecturer was shortly verified.

    The Institution, indeed, had already suffered from
 the calamity ; for, in a Report to the Visitors, dated
January 25, 1808, it is stated, that "there has

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    293

been an excess of expenditure beyond the receipts.
Among the causes of diminished income may be
mentioned the postponement of the lectures, in con-
sequence of the lamented illness of the excellent
Professor of Chemistry ; and among the items of
increased expenditure, the extra expense of the La-
boratory, in which have been produced Mr. Davy's
recent discoveries, so honourable to the Royal Insti-
tution, and so beneficial to the interests of science

in every part of the world."

   This Report is succeeded by the following Mi-

nute :

   "February 22, 1808. Mr. Davy attended at the
request of the Committee, and informed them that
he should be able to commence his course of

Lectures on Electro-chemical science on Saturday
the 12th of March, at two o'clock; and those on

Geology on Wednesday evening, the 16th of that

month."

   The following letter to Mr. Poole announces the
restoration of his health, and communicates some
other circumstances of interest. Mr. Poole, it would

appear, entertained doubts as to whether Davy re-
ceived the prize of France for his first or second
Bakerian Lecture, upon which point this letter sets

him right.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

IMY DEAR POOLE,                      March, 1808.

MANY thanks for your kind letter.    have seen

Iyour friend Mr. B  for a minute, and, to use a

geological term, like his aspect, and shall endea-

vour to cultivate his acquaintance.

294 THE LIFE OF

  I am exceedingly busy ; my health is re-esta-
Iblished ; and am entering again into the career of

experiment.
   The prize which you congratulate me upon was

given for my paper of 1806, and not for my last dis-
coveries, which will probably excite more interest.

   C , after disappointing his audience twice

from illness, is announced to lecture again this

week. He has suffered greatly from excessive sen-
sibility the disease of genius. His mind is as a
wilderness, in which the cedar and the oak, which

might aspire to the skies, are stunted in their growth
by underwood, thorns, briars, and parasitical plants.

With the most exalted genius, enlarged views, sen-
sitive heart, and enlightened mind, he will be the

Ivictim of want of order, precision, and regularity.

   cannot think of him without experiencing the
mingled feelings of admiration, regard, and pity.

   Why do you not come to London? Many
would be happy to see you; but no one more so

than your very sincere friend, my dear Poole,

                                                    H. DAVY.

   It is difficult to convey an adequate idea of the

universal interest which was excited by the lectures
on Electro-chemical Science, to which an allusion
has been just made. The Theatre of the Institu-
tion overflowed; and each succeeding lecture in-
creased the number of candidates for admission.

   It is unnecessary, after what has been already

stated, to describe the masterly style in which he
demonstrated and explained those general laws
which his genius had developed, or to enumerate

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                   295

the beautiful and diversified experiments by which

he illustrated their application, in simplifying the

more complex forms of matter.
   His evening lectures on Geology were equally

attractive ; and by a method as novel as it was beau-
tiful, he exhibited, by the aid of transparencies, the
structure of mountains, the stratification of rocks,

and the arrangements of mineral veins.
   The Easter recess afforded him a few days of lei-

sure, which from the following note he appears to

have devoted to his favourite amusement.

TO W. H. PEPYS, ESQ.

MY DEAR PEPYS,        April, 1808.

CHILDREN has had the kindness to arrange our

party, and we are to meet him, at all events, on

ITuesday at two o'clock, at Foot's Cray.
      have proposed that we should leave town at

about five or six on Monday evening, sleep at Foot's

Cray, and try the fly-fishing there.

  Will you arrange with Allen, whom we must

initiate in the vocation of the Apostles, as he wants

nothing else to make him perfect as a primitive

IChristian and a Philosopher ?
                                am, my dear Pepys,

                Most affectionately yours,
                      H. DAVY.

   Hitherto his passion for angling has only been

Inoticed in connection with his conversation and

letters ; shall now present to the reader a sketch

of the philosopher in his fishing costume. His

whole suit consisted of green cloth ; the coat having

296 THE LIFE OF

sundry pockets for holding the necessary tackle :
his boots were made of caoutchouc, and, for the

convenience of wading through the water, reached
above the knees. His hat, originally intended for

a coal-heaver, had been purchased from the manu-

facturer in its raw state, and dyed green by some
pigment of his own composition ; it was, moreover,

studded with every variety of artificial fly which he

could require for his diversion. Thus equipped, he

thought, from the colour of his dress, that he was
more likely to elude the observation of the fish.

He looked not like an inhabitant o' the earth, and

Iyet was on't; nor can find any object in the
Iregions of invention with which could justly com-

pare him, except  ipnerthhaepsfarwciethofon"eTohfethCorsieticg,r"otaetsteqnude
personages who,

IFather Thames on the stage, as his two banks.

     shall take this opportunity of stating, that his

shooting attire was equally whimsical :  it           as an

                                             ;

                                              it if,
angler, he adopted dress for concealing his person,
as sportsman in woods and plantations, was his
a
     a

                           a
                                   a
                                      a
object to devise means for exposing            for he al-

ways entertained singular dread lest he might be
accidentally shot upon these occasions. When upon

  visit to Mr. Dillwyn of Swansea, he accompanied

his friend on shooting excursion, in broad-brirn-a
med hat, the whole of which, with the exception of

the brim, was covered with scarlet cloth.

Notwithstanding, however, the refinements which

he displayed in his dress, and the scrupulous atten-

tion with which he observed all the minute details

of the art  ;     the truth must be told, he was not

              if

more successful than his brother anglers and here
                                            ;

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  297

again the temperament of Wollaston presented a
characteristic contrast to that of Davy. The former

evinced the same patience and reserve the same
cautious observation and unwearied'vigilance in this

pursuit, as so eminently distinguished his chemical
labours. The temperament of the latter was far too

mercurial : the fish never seized the fly with suf-
ficient avidity to fulfill his expectations, or to sup-
port that degree of excitement which was essential
to his happiness, and he became either listless or

angry, and consequently careless and unsuccessful.

   But it is time to resume the thread of our che-

mical history.

   It has been already stated, that Davy had no

sooner decomposed the fixed alkalies than he pro-

ceeded to effect an analysis of the earths ; but his
results were indistinct : they could not, like the
alkalies, be rendered conductors of electricity by
fusion, nor could they be acted upon in solution, in
consequence of the strong affinity possessed by their
bases for oxygen. The pursuit of the enquiry then

demanded more refined and complicated processes,
than those which had succeeded with potash and

soda.

    The only methods which held out any fair pro-
spect of success were those of operating by electricity
upon the earths in some of their combinations, or of
converting them, at the moment of their decompo-
sition, into metallic alloys, so as to obtain presump-
tive evidence of their nature and properties. Such,
in fact, was the line of enquiry in which Davy was

deeply engaged, when he received from Professor
Berzelitis of Stockholm a letter, announcing the fact

298 THE LIFE OF

that he had, in conjunction with Dr. Pontin, suc-
ceeded in decomposing baryta and lime, by nega-
tively electrising mercury in contact with them, and

that, by such means, he had actually obtained amal-
gams of the earths in question.

   Our philosopher immediately repeated the expe-
riments, and with perfect success. After which he
completed a series of additional experiments, which
fully established the nature of these bodies, and the

analogies he had anticipated. These results formed

the subject of a memoir, which was read before the
Royal Society on the 30th of June 1808, and en-
titled, " Electro-chemical Researches on the De-
composition of the Earths : with Observations on
the Metals obtained from them, and on the Amal-
gam of Ammonia."

    He commences this paper by enumerating the

several trials he had made to effect the decomposi-

tion of these bodies ; such as, First, by electrifying
them by iron wires under the surface of naphtha,
with a view to form alloys with iron and the metallic

bases of the earths. Secondly, by heating potassium
in contact with the alkaline earths, in the hope that

this body might detach the oxygen from them, in

the same manner as charcoal decomposes the com-

mon metallic oxides. Thirdly, by submitting va-
rious mixtures of the earths $nd potash to Voltaic
action, with the idea that the potash and the earths

might be deoxidated at the same time, and entering
into combination, form alloys. Fourthly, by mixing
together various earths with the oxides of tin, iron,
lead, silver, and mercury : a mode of manipulation
suggested by the results of his previous experiments

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 299

on potassium, in which he found that when a mix-
ture of potash and the oxides of mercury, tin, or
lead, was electrified in the Voltaic circuit, the de-

composition was very rapid, and an amalgam, or

an alloy of potassium, was obtained ; the attrac-

tion between the common metals and the potas-

sium apparently accelerating the separation of the

oxygen.

Supposing that a similar kind of action might as-

sist the decomposition of the alkaline earths, he pro-

ceeded to institute a series of experiments upon that

principle ; and the results were more satisfactory

than those obtained by the preceding methods of

experimenting a compound was obtained which

acted upon water with the evolution of hydrogen,

producing a solution of the earth, and leaving free

the tin, or lead, with which its base may be sup-

posed to have been alloyed ; but in all such expe-

riments the quantity of the metallic basis produced

must have been very minute, and its character very

questionable.

   In this stage of the enquiry, Davy received the
letter from Professor Berzelius of Stockholm, the

contents of which he embodied in his memoir, ac-

companied with such observations as his own infor-

mation  suggested.  mercury,  electrified  by the power

  "A    globule of

of a battery consisting of five hundred pairs of dou-

ble plates of six inches square, weakly charged, was
made to act upon a surface of slightly moistened

barytes, fixed upon a plate of platina. The mercury

gradually became less fluid, and after a few minutes
was found covered with a white film of barytes ; and

300 TtiE LIFE OF

when the amalgam was thrown into water, hydro-

gen was disengaged, the mercury remained free, and
a solution of barytes was formed.

   " The result with lime, as these gentlemen had

stated, was precisely analogous,

   " That the same happy methods .must succeed

Iwith strontites and magnesia, it was not easy to

doubt, and quickly tried the experiment. From

Istrontites obtained a very rapid result ; but from

magnesia, in the first trials, no amalgam could be
procured. By continuing the process, however, for
a longer time, and keeping the earth continually
moist, at last a combination of the bases with mer-

cury was obtained, which slowly produced magne-
sia, by absorption of oxygen from air, or by the
action of water.

  I" All these amalgams found might be preserved

for a considerable period under naphtha. In a
length of time, however, they became covered with
a white crust under this fluid. When exposed to

air, a very few minutes only were required for the

oxygenation of the bases of the earths. In the
water the amalgam of barytes was most rapidly de-
composed ; that of strontites, and that of lime next

in order : but the amalgam from magnesia, as might
have been expected from the weak affinity of the
earth for water, very slowly changed : when, how-
ever, a little sulphuric acid was added to the water,
the evolution of hydrogen, and the production and
solution of magnesia, were exceedingly rapid, and
the mercury soon remained free."

  In order, if possible, to procure the amalgams in

quantities sufficient for distillation, he combined the

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        301

methods he had employed     in the first instance,  with
those pursued by Berzelius                          mix-
                             and Pontin. " A

ture of the earth with red oxide of mercury was

placed on a plate of platina, a cavity was made in
the upper part of it to receive a globule of mercury,
the whole was covered by a film of naphtha, and the

plate was made positive, and the mercury negative,

by a proper communication with the battery of five

hundred."

   The amalgams thus procured were afterwards dis-
tilled in glass tubes filled with the vapour of naph-

tha ; by which operation the mercury rose pure from
the amalgam, and it was very easy to separate a part
of it ; but the difficulty was to obtain a complete

decomposition, for to effect this, a high temperature

was required, and at a red heat the bases of the

earths instantly acted upon the glass, and became

oxidated.

In the best result which Davy obtained in this

manner, the barytic basis appeared as a white metal
of the colour of silver, fixed at all common tempera-

tures, but fluid at a heat below redness, and volatile

at a heat above it. Unlike the alkaline bases, it

would seem to be considerably heavier than water.

   In extending these experiments to alumine, silex,

zircone, &c. after a most elaborate investigation,

such results were not obtained as justified the con-

clusion that they were, like the other earths, metal-

lic oxides ; although, as far as they went, they added
to the probability of such analogy.

  It will be remembered that, after the fixed alka-

lies had been found to contain oxygen, Davy was

very naturally led to enquire whether ammonia

302 THE LIFE OF

might not also contain the same element, or be an

oxide with a binary base. In the communication

from Professor Berzelius, and Dr. Pontin, already

alluded to, a most curious experiment is related on

what they consider the deoxidation and amalgama-

tion of the compound basis of ammonia ; and which

they regard as supporting the idea which Davy had
         of                            * in the volatile
formed       the presence of oxygen    production of a
alkali.  A   fact so startling as the

metallic body from ammonia, or from its elements,

immediately excited in Davy's mind the most ar-

dent desire to pursue the enquiry ; and, after re-

peating the original experiments of the Swedish

chemists with his accustomed sagacity, he modified

his methods of manipulation, in order, if possible, to

obtain this metallic body in its most simple form ;

but, although he succeeded in producing the amal-

gam without Voltaic aid, by the intervention of po-

tassium, he could not so distill off the mercury as to

leave the basis, or imaginary ammonium, free.

The history of these researches into the nature of

the ammoniacal element concludes the lecture of

Iwhich have endeavoured to give an outline. The

subject of the amalgam is still involved in mystery :

if we suppose with Davy, that a substance, which

forms so perfect an amalgam with mercury, must of

necessity be metallic in its own nature, we cannot

but conclude either that hydrogen and nitrogen are

both metals in the aeriform state, at the usual tem-

peratures of the atmosphere bodies, for example,
of the same character as zinc and quicksilver would

be at the heat of ignition or, that these gases are

             * See page 285.

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                         303

oxides in their common form, but which become

metallized by deoxidation or, that they are simple

bodies, not metallic in their own nature, but capable
of composing a metal in then* deoxygenated, and an

alkali in their oxygenated, state.

Before we venture, however, to entertain any

opinions so extravagant in their nature, and so
wholly unsupported by analogy, it would be well to

enquire how far the change, which ammonia and

mercury undergo by Voltaic action, really merits
the name of amalgamation. Several chemists of the

present day are inclined to refer this change of form

to a purely mechanical cause, by which the particles
of the metal become separated, and converted, as it

were, into a kind offroth by the operation.*

   * The late interesting experiments of Mr. Daniell " on the

action of Mercury on different Metals," which have been recently
published in the first number of a new series of the Journal of the

Royal Institution, appear to throw much light upon this subject.
By agitating a few grains of spongy platinum with mercury in
water acidified with acetic acid, he obtained an amalgam of the

consistence of soft butter, which retained its consistence for many

weeks, and greatly resembled that formed by the electrization of
mercury in contact with ammonia. When the amalgam was laid

upon filtering paper, the moisture was gradually absorbed and
evaporated, and the mercury returned to a fluid state. By a more
refined experiment, Mr. Daniell ascertained that the process was

accompanied by the evolution of hydrogen gas ; whence he very

fairly concludes, that, when minutely divided, platinum is agitated

with mercury, and moisture is present, an electrical action takes
place, which, when heightened by the addition of a diluted acid, or

the solution of a neutral salt, is sufficiently energetic to decompose

water and evolve hydrogen : the oxygen at the same time combines

with the mercury, and a solution is effected by the acetic acid,
                                                                                                      It also
which its  cuonnatisnsuisetsedMra. fDfinaintyielcl,ou"ldthant otthishaevleectrpicroadl uaccetdio. n
appears,"                                                                                            commu-

304 THE LIFE OF

   Mr. Brande, in a late communication in the Jour-
nal of the Royal Institution,* observes : " Shortly

Iafter the discovery of a method of obtaining Mor-

phia in a pure state, remember that Sir Humphry
Davy suggested the possibility of its affording,

nicates an adhesive attraction to the particles of the metal, by

which the particles of liquid and aeriform bodies are entangled

and retained, a kind of frothy compound formed, and the fluidity

of the mercury destroyed. The appearance of this amalgam is so

very like that of the ammoniacal compound formed by exposing a

solution of ammonia in contact with mercury to the influence of

the Voltaic pile, or when an amalgam of potassium and mercury is

placed upon moistened muriate of ammonia, that it is impossible

not to be struck with the resemblance. Mr. Daniell is therefore

inclined to believe that the production of the latter may be ex-

plained upon the same principles as that of the former. When the

effect is produced by the direct application of the electrical current,

by means of the battery, it ceases the moment the connexion

between the poles is broken ; and when brought about by the

agency of the amalgam of potassium, the electrical action is doubt-

less excited by the contact of the two dissimilar metals, and the

frothy compound lasts no longer than the existence of the potas-

sium in the metallic state; whereas in the action between mercury

and finely divided platinum, the permanence of the metals produces

a much more lasting effect, and the soft amalgam may therefore

be *pr"esOernvetdheforEleacgtrreoa-ctehremlenicgatlh   of time.      of the Vegeto-Al-
                                                      Decomposition

kaline Salts." In this communication, the Professor gives an ac-

count of some experiments of his own, with a view to ascertain

whether the vegetable alkalies, if electrised in contact with mer-

cury, would impart any principle to the latter metal. In experi-

ments with morphia and cinchonia, in which the mercury in

contact with the vegetable base was rendered negative, not the

least change in the fluidity of the metal could be perceived.

When, however, a similar experiment was made with quina, the

metal became filmy, and acquired even a tendency to a butyra-

ceous appearance, but the phenomenon was found to depend upon
the presence of a minute portion of lime.

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     305

when electrised in contact with mercury, results

corresponding with those which Berzelius had ob-

served in respect to ammonia. He thought that

the nascent elements of the morphia, as liberated by

electrical decomposition, might, under such circum-

stances, effect a similar apparent amalgam of the
mercury, and he spoke of the subject as likely to

Ithrow some light upon the corresponding ammo-
niacal combinations. He made,          believe, a few

experiments upon the subject ; but as the results

were not such as he had anticipated, they were not

placed on record."

   In the progress of our ascent, it is refreshing to

pause occasionally, and to cast a glance at the hori-

zon, which widens at every increase of our elevation.

By the decomposition of the alkalies and earths,

what an immense stride has been made in the inves-

tigation of nature! In sciences kindred to che-
mistry, the knowledge of the composition of these

bodies, and the analogies arising from have openedit it,

new views, and led to the solution of many pro-
blems. In Geology, for instance, has not shown

that agents may have operated in the formation of

rocks and earths, which had not previously been

known to exist It evident that the metals of
a it

    is

                ;
                         ?

                                is
the earths cannot remain at the surface of our globe
but probable that they may constitute part of
                                               a

                                                                 ;

its interior and such an assumption would at once

offer plausible theory in explanation of the pheno-
mena of volcanoes, the formation of lavas, and the

excitement and effects of subterranean heat, and

might even lead to general theory in Geology.
         a

The reader, for the present, must be satisfied with
                                    x
VOL. i.

306 THE LIFE OF

Ithese cursory hints : shall hereafter show that our

illustrious philosopher followed them up by nu-
merous observations and original experiments in a

Ivolcanic country.
      remember with delight the beautiful illustration
of his theory, as exhibited in an artificial volcano
constructed in the theatre of the Royal Institution.

   A mountain had been modelled in clay, and a

quantity of the metallic bases introduced into its
interior : on water being poured upon it, the metals
were soon thrown into violent action successive

explosions followed red-hot lava was seen flowing
down its sides, from a crater in miniature mimic
lightnings played around : and in the instant of
dramatic illusion, the tumultuous applause and con-
tinued cheering of the audience might almost have
been regarded as the shouts of the alarmed fugitives
of Herculaneum or Pompeii.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  307

                 CHAPTER VIII.

 Davy's Bakerian Lecture of 1808. Results obtained from the mu-
     tual action of Potassium and Ammonia upon each other. His
     belief that he had decomposed Nitrogen. He discovers Tellu-
     retted Hydrogen. Whether Sulphur, Phosphorus, and Carbon,
     may not contain Hydrogen. He decomposes Boracic acid.
    Boron. His fallacies with regard to the composition of Muria-

    tic acid. A splendid Voltaic Battery is constructed at the In-
    stitution by subscription. Davy ascertains the true nature of

    the Muriatic and Oxy-muriatic Acids. Important chemical
    analogies to which the discovery gave origin. Euchlorine.
    Chlorides. He delivers Lectures before the Dublin Society.
    He receives the Honorary Degree of LL.D. from the Provost
    and Fellows of Trinity College. He undertakes to ventilate the
    House of Lords. The Regent confers upon him the honour of
    Knighthood. He delivers his farewell Lecture. Engages in a
    Gunpowder manufactory. His marriage.

   THE third Bakerian Lecture, which Davy read be-
fore the Royal Society in December 1808, is entitled

" An Account of some new analytical Researches on

the Nature of certain Bodies, particularly the Alka-
lies, Phosphorus, Sulphur, Carbonaceous matter,, and
the Acids hitherto undecompounded ; with some
general Observations on Chemical Theory."

   The object of this lecture was to communicate
the results of numerous experiments which had
been instituted for the purpose of still farther

308 THE LIFE OF

extending our knowledge of the elements of matter,
by the new powers and methods arising from the
application of electricity to chemical analysis.

   Important as were the facts thus obtained, they
disappointed the expectation of those who did not
consider, that the more nearly we approach ultimate
analysis,* the greater must be the difficulties, the
more numerous the fallacies, and the less perfect

the results, of our processes. In fact, his former

discoveries had spoilt us : their splendour had left
our organs of perception incapable of receiving
just impressions from any minor lights, and we par-
ticipated with exaggerated feelings, in the disap-
pointment which he himself expressed at several of
his results. The confidence inspired by his former

    * The difficulty of seizing upon elementary forms, as well as
 the infinity of combinations of which they are susceptible, are
 supposed by Mr. Sankey to be allegorized in the fable of Proteus,
 Ifywraoc, being derived from irpuros, signifying the first element.

 It is not a little singular that Mr. Leslie, to whom such a specula-

 tion was wholly unknown, should have recognised in the same
 fable a picture of the cautious but intrepid advances of the skilful
 experimenter: he tries to press Nature into a corner, he endea-
 vours to separate the different principles of action, he seeks to
 concentrate the predominant agent, and labours to exclude as
 much as possible every disturbing influence. Notwithstanding the
 confidence with which modern philosophers have claimed the dis-
  covery, the experimental mode of investigation was undoubtedly
  known and pursued by the ancients, who appear, observes Mr.
  Leslie, to have concealed their notions respecting it under the veil
  of allegory. Proteus signified the mutable and changing forms of

  material objects; and the inquisitive philosopher was counselled by
  the Poets to watch their slippery demon, when slumbering on the
   shore to bind him, and to compel the reluctant captive to reveal

  his secrets. Elements of Natural Philosophy.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  309

triumphs may be compared to that which is felt by

an army, when commanded by a victorious Gene-
ral, a conviction that, however difficult may be
the enterprise, it must be accomplished by the ge-
nius of him who undertakes it. The moment we

discovered that Davy was laying siege to one of

Nature's strongest holds, that he was attempting
to resolve nitrogen into other elementary forms,

we regarded the deed as already accomplished, and
the repulse which followed most unreasonably pro-

duced a feeling of dissatisfaction. Upon such occa-
sions, the severity of our disappointment will always
be in proportion to the importance of the object we
desire to accomplish ; and it is impossible not to
feel that the discovery of the true nature of nitro-

gen would lead to new views in chemistry, the
extent of which it is not easy even to imagine.

   The principal objects of research which this paper
embraces are, the elementary matter of ammonia ;
the nature of phosphorus, sulphur, charcoal, and
the diamond ; and the constituents of the boracic,

fluoric, and muriatic acids. Enquiries which are

continued and extended in two successive papers,

viz. in one read before the Society in February

1809, entitled "New Analytical Researches on the
Nature of certain Bodies ; being an Appendix to

his Bakerian Lecture of 1808 ;" and in his fourth
Bakerian Lecture of 1809, " On some new Electro-

chemical Researches on various Objects, particularly
the Metallic bodies from the Alkalies and Earths ;

and on some Combinations of Hydrogen."
   With regard to these admirable papers, for such

they must undoubtedly be considered, the biogra-

310 THE LIFE OF

pher must confine his observations to their general
character and results. They are far too refined to

admit of a brief analysis, and too elaborate to allow

a successful abridgement. A just idea of their

merit can alone be derived from a direct reference

to the Philosophical Transactions.
    The enquiry commences with experiments on the

results produced by the mutual action of potassium
and ammonia on each other. His object was two-
fold: to refute the hypothesis which assumed hy-
drogen as an element of potassium, and to ascertain
the nature of the matter existing in the amalgam of
ammonia, or the supposed metallic basis of the vola-
tile alkali : a question intimately connected with the
whole of the arrangements of chemistry. As to the
former point, it is unnecessary to enter into farther
discussion ; and with regard to the latter, it is quite
impossible to convey an adequate idea of the extent
of the enquiry : there does not exist in the annals of
chemistry a more striking example of experimental

industry.

    In the course of his experiments on potassium

 and ammonia, he obtained an olive-coloured body,

 which he was inclined to regard as a compound of
 the metallic base of ammonia (ammonium) and po-
 tassium ; and on submitting which to various trials,
 he uniformly obtained, as the product of its decom-
 position, a proportion of nitrogen considerably less

 than that which, upon calculations founded on a

 rigid analysis of the volatile alkali, ought to have
 been afforded under such circumstances, while the

 potassium employed at the same time became oxi-
 dated. This result inspired a hope that nitrogen

        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                311

might have been actually decomposed during the

process, and that its elements were oxygen and a

metallic basis, or oxygen and hydrogen.

   That he was sanguine in that hope, appears from

Ithe whole tenor of his paper; in farther proof of

which, can adduce a letter which he addressed to
"IMr. Children during the progress of his experi-
ments, in which he says,            hope on Thursday to

show you nitrogen as a complete wreck, torn to

pieces in different ways." His subsequent enqui-

ries, however, although they did not strengthen the

suspicion he had formed respecting the decomposi-

tion of that body, yet indirectly developed facts of

considerable importance ; which, with his character-
istic quickness of perception, he made subservient

to fresh investigation.

His researches into the phenomena exhibited by

tellurium, when forming a part of the Voltaic cir-

cuit, are highly interesting. It had been stated by
Hitter, that, of all the metallic substances he tried

for producing potassium by negative electricity,

tellurium was the only one by which he could not

procure it ; and he uses this fact in support of his

opinion, that potassium is a hydruret. He says,
that when a circuit of electricity is completed in

water by means of two surfaces of tellurium, oxy-

gen is given off at the positive surface, and instead
of hydrogen at the negative surface, a brown pow-

der is formed and separated, which he regards as a

hydruret of tellurium; and he conceives that the

reason why that metal prevents the metallization of

        that has stronger attraction for hydro-
potash  is,

                  it

                                 a

gen than that possessed by the alkali.

312 THE LIFE OF

   Davy's attention was naturally arrested by such a
statement, and, in pursuing the enquiry, he disco-
vered a series of new facts : he found that tellu-
rium and hydrogen were capable of combining, and
of forming a gas, to which he gave the name of
telluretted hydrogen, that, so far from tellurium
preventing the decomposition of potash, it formed
an alloy with potassium when negatively electrified
upon the alkali and, such was the intense affinity
of potassium and tellurium for each other, that the
decomposition of potash might be effected by acting
on the oxide of the latter metal and the alkali, at

the same time, by heated charcoal.

   With respect to the next subject of enquiry in

these papers, viz. whether sulphur, phosphorus, and
carbon, in their ordinary forms, may not contain

hydrogen, it would appear that from an experiment
performed by Mr. Clayfield, and which Davy wit-
nessed at Bristol in the year 1799, he was very early
led to suspect the existence of hydrogen in sulphur;
but it was not until 1807, that he entered upon the
investigation of the subject. From the general
tenor of his experiments he concluded that, in its
common state, it may be regarded as a compound
 of small quantities of oxygen and hydrogen, with
a large quantity of a basis which, on account of its
 strong attractions for other bodies, has not hither-
 to been obtained in its pure form. The same ana-
 logies apply to phosphorus and carbon. His con-

 clusion was mainly derived from the fact, that hy-
 drogen is produced from sulphur and phosphorus
 in such quantities by Voltaic electricity, that he
 thinks it cannot well be considered as an accidental

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  313

ingredient in them : the presence of oxygen, he
contends, may be inferred from the circumstance

that, when potassium is made to act upon these

bodies, the sulphurets and phosphurets so formed

evolve by the action of an acid less hydrogen, in
the form of compound inflammable gas, than the
same quantity of potassium in an uncombined state.
Tdohuebtqu; esatniodn,inhohwiseve"rE, lesmtilel nrtesmoaifnsChinemcoicnaslidPehrailbole-

sophy," published four years afterwards, he admits

that no accurate conclusions have been formed on

the subject.

   In his second Bakerian Lecture of 1807, Davy had

given an account of an experiment in which boracic
acid appeared to be decomposed by Voltaic elec-

tricity, a dark-coloured inflammable substance sepa-

rating from it on the negative surface. In the me-

moir now under consideration, he procured the basis

by heating together boracic acid and potassium,
when he ascertained it to be a peculiar inflammable

matter, which, after various experiments upon its
nature, he was inclined to regard as metallic; on

which account he proposed for it the name of Bora-

cium. At about the same period, MM. Gay Lussac

and Thenard were engaged in investigating the
same subject in France, and they anticipated him
in some of the results.

    When Davy, by subsequent experiments, had
ascertained that the base of the boracic acid is more

analogous to carbon than to any other substance, he
adopted the term Boron, as less exceptionable than

that of Boracium.

  At this time, he also entered upon the investiga-

314 THE LIFE OF

tion of fluoric acid, the results of which must be

reserved for future consideration.

   His experiments and reasonings upon muriatic

acid, at this period of his career, must be now consi-
dered as deriving their greatest degree of interest

from their fallacy; and they deserve an examination

in this work, if it be only to estimate the vigour

he subsequently displayed in disentangling himself
from a web of his own fabrication. The most satis-

factory proof of intellectual strength is to be found
in the existence of a power which enables the mind
to conquer its prejudices and to correct its own
errors. How many remarkable instances does the
history of science present, in which the philosopher
has treated his facts as Procrustes did his victims, in

order that they might accord with the measure most

convenient for his purpose !

   Prejudiced by the general opinion respecting the
hitherto undecompounded nature of muriatic acid,

he had long sought to discover its radical by the
agency of Voltaic electricity ; but he uniformly
found that when its aqueous solution was thus

acted upon, the water alone underwent decompo-
sition ; while the electrization of the gas afforded

no other indication of its nature than the presence
of a much greater quantity of water than theory
had assigned to it. He proceeded, therefore, to
examine the acid by other modes of enquiry : he
found, by the action of potassium upon the gas,
that a large volume of hydrogen was evolved,
which, in conjunction with other experiments, sa-
tisfied him that this body, in its common aeriform
state, contained at least one-third of its weight of

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        315

water ; and he adopted various expedients with the

Ihopes of obtaining the acid free from it. Without

pursuing him through this research, shall merely

state the conclusions at which he arrived, viz. that

dry muriatic acid, could it be obtained, would pro-

bably be found to possess the strongest and most
extensive powers of combination of all known sub-

stances belonging to the class of acids ; and that

its basis, should it ever be separated in a pure form,

will be one of the most powerful agents in Che-

mistry. From the fact of water appearing in a

separate state, and oxymuriatic acid being formed

whenever a metallic oxide was heated in muriatic

acid gas, he was led to consider the muriatic acid
as a compound of a certain base, (not hitherto ob-

tained in a separate state,) and not less than one-

third part of water; while he regarded oxymu-

riatic acid as a compound of the same base (free
from water) with oxygen.

   After the numerous experiments in which the

original battery of the Institution had been used,

so greatly were its metallic plates corroded, that

it was found to be no longer serviceable ; in con-

sequence of which, as it would appear from a mi-

nute, dated July 11, 1808, " Mr. Davy laid before

the Managers of the Royal Institution the follow-

ing"  paper, viz.  of discovery  having  been  opened

      A new path

in the agencies of the electrical battery of V^olta,

which promises to lead to the greatest improve-

ments in Chemistry and Natural Philosophy, and

the useful arts connected with them ; and since

the increase of the size of the apparatus is abso-

316 THE LIFE OF

lately necessary for pursuing it to its full extent,
it is proposed to raise a fund by subscription, for

constructing a powerful battery, worthy of a na-

tional establishment, and capable of promoting the

gre"aAt lorebajedcyts,  of science.           public   and  ample
                         in other countries,

means have been provided for pursuing these in-

vestigations. They have had their origin in this
country ; and it would be dishonourable to a na-

tion so great, so powerful, and so rich,               is if,  from

the want of pecuniary resources, they should be

com" pAlentedapapebarol adto. enlightened individuals on this

subject can scarcely be made in vain. It pro-

posed that the instrument and apparatus be erected

in the Laboratory of the Royal Institution, where
    shall be employed in the advancement of this
it

new department of science."

    The Minute          goes on  then to  state  that  before  the
    " The above          paper   having   been   laid

Board of Managers, they felt their indispensable
                                 it

duty instantly to communicate the same to every

member of the Royal Institution, lest the slightest

delay might furnish an opportunity to other coun-

tries for accomplishing this great work, which origi-

nated in the brilliant discoveries recently made at

the Royal Institution.
   " The Managers present agree to subscribe to

this  undertaking.      a  book be opened at the Stew-
      ORDERED, that
   "

ard's office for the purpose of entering the names

of all those members who may wish to contribute

towards this important National object."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  317

   To the great gratification of Davy, and to the
honour of the country, the list of subscribers was
soon completed, and one of the most magnificent
batteries ever constructed was speedily in full ope-

ration.

  It is thus alluded to in his Elements of Chemical

Philosophy : " The most powerful combination that
exists, in which number of alternations is combined

with extent of surface, is that constructed by the
subscriptions of a few zealous cultivators and pa-
trons of science, in the Laboratory of the Royal

Institution. It consists of two hundred instru-

ments connected together in regular order, each
composed of ten double plates arranged in cells
of porcelain, and containing in each plate thirty-
two square inches ; so that the whole number of

double plates is two thousand, and the whole sur-

face one hundred and twenty-eight thousand square

inches."

    This battery, when the cells were filled with sixty
parts of water mixed with one part of nitric acid,
afforded a series of brilliant and impressive effects.
When pieces of charcoal, about an inch long, and
one-sixth of an inch in diameter, were brought near
each other, (within the thirtieth or fortieth parts of
an inch,) a bright spark was produced, and more
than half the volume of the charcoal became ignited

 to whiteness, and by withdrawing the points from

 each other a constant discharge took place through
 the heated air, in a space equal at least to four
 inches, producing a most brilliant ascending arch of
 light, broad and conical in form in the middle.
 When any substance was introduced into this arch,

a 318 THE LIFE OF

                  it,it instantly became ignited ; platina melted as rea-
 dily in it as wax in the flame of a common candle ;
                                                                                             ;
 quartz, the sapphire, magnesia, lime, all entered
a
 into fusion; fragments of diamond, and points of
                                             ;
                                                                ;charcoal and plumbago rapidly disappeared, and
 seemed to evaporate in even when the connexion
 was made in receiver exhausted by the air-pump
 but there was no evidence of their having previously

 undergone fusion.

   All the phenomena of chemical decomposition

were produced with intense rapidity by this combi-
nation. When the points of charcoal were brought
near each other in non-conducting fluids, such as
 oils, ether, and oxymuriatic compounds, brilliant
sparks occurred, and elastic matter was rapidly ge-

nerated.

    Among the numerous experiments performed by
the aid of this battery, he instituted several, in the
hope of decomposing nitrogen and which are re-
corded in his Bakerian Lecture of 1809. He ig-
nited potassium, by intense Voltaic electricity, in

this gas; and the result was, that hydrogen ap-
peared, and some nitrogen was found deficient.
This, on first view, led him to the suspicion that he
had attained his object but, in subsequent experi-
ments, in proportion as the potassium was more free

from coating of potash, which necessarily intro-
duced water, so in proportion was less hydrogen
evolved, and less nitrogen found deficient. The
general tenor of these enquiries, therefore, did not
strengthen the opinion he had formed with respect
to the compound nature of nitrogen.

  It appears from the following letter, that Davy

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  319

visited his friend Mr. Andrew Knight at Downton,

in September 1809. It is introduced in these

memoirs principally for the purpose of showing
with what boldness he was accustomed to depart

from generally received opinions, and to project new

theories for the explanation of the most abstruse

subjects.

TO JOHN GEORGE CHILDREN, ESQ.

MY DEAR FRIEND,            September 23, 1 809.
I AM about to visit Downton, and shall return
Iby the first of October.
                           have neither seen nor
Iheard from Lord Darnley, and conjecture he has

not yet returned from Scotland.

  I wish you great sport in pheasant-shooting, but
I trust you have had still nobler game in your

Laboratory.

  I Idoubt not you have found before this, as have

done, that the substance we mistook for sulphuretted

hydrogen is telluretted hydrogen, very soluble in

water, combinable with alkalies and earths, and a

substance affording another proof that hydrogen is
Ian oxide.
            have met with another analogous com-

pound, that of boracium with hydrogen, which pos-

sesses very similar properties.

  I find that taking ammonium as the basis of hy-
Idrogen, according to the ideas which stated, all
Ithe compounds will agree with the suppositions that

   mentioned to you, viz. eight cubic inches of hy-
drogen, two of oxygen, ammonia; four and two,

water ; four and four, nitrogen ; four and six, nitrous

oxide; four and eight, nitrous gas; four and ten,

nitric acid. Where the multiples are not in geo-

320 THE LIFE OF

metrical order, the decomposition is most easy, i. e.
in nitrous oxide and nitric acid ; more easy in water
than in ammonia; but most difficult in nitrogen,

where there is probably the most perfect equilibrium

of affinities.

  I have kept charcoal white hot by the Voltaic

apparatus, in dry oxymuriatic acid gas for an hour,

Iwithout effecting its decomposition. This agrees

with what had before observed with a red heat.

It is as difficult to decompose as nitrogen, except

when all its elements can be made to enter into new

combinations.

  I find the radiation, in vacua, from ignited pla-

tina, is to that in air as three to one : so much for

Leslie's hypothesis.

  A little electrical machine acts with a repulsion as

two, in a vacuum equal to five inches of mercury ;

as thirty, in common air ; as thirty, in oxygen ; as

Itwenty-nine or thirty, in hydrogen ; and as forty-
five, in carbonic acid.  showed this experiment,

made with every precaution, to Mr. Cavendish, Dr.

Herschell, Dr. Wollaston, and Warburton : so much

Ifor the theory, that electricity is dependent upon
oxidation.  do not think our worthy friend Pepys

will resist any longer.

  IPray let me know what you have been doing.
hope you will not suffer these beautiful and satis-

factory experiments of the capacities of metals to

Iremain still. Write me a letter as egotistical as the

one have given you. You are pledged to do good

and noble things, and you must not disappoint the
men of science of this country.
   With kindest remembrances to your excellent

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   321

Iather, and with hopes that we shall soon meet,

am, my dear friend,

         Very faithfully and affectionately yours,
                                                     H. DAVY.

The genius displayed by Mr. Knight in investi-

gating the phenomena of vegetable nature, and in
applying the knowledge thus acquired to objects of

practical improvement, excited in Davy, as might

have been expected, feelings of the highest admira-

tion ; and when, in addition to such claims, he was
the acknowledged patron and hospitable friend of

the angler, the reader will readily imagine the

warmth of feeling with which our philosopher che-

rished his friendship.

  On commencing the present work, I applied to

Mr. Knight for any assistance he might be able to

afford me, in aid of so arduous a labour; and he

Ivery kindly returned an answer, from which ex-

tract the  following passage.     Sir Humphry  Davy,
           late lamented friend,
   " My

usually paid me a visit in the autumn, when he

chiefly amused himself with angling for grayling, a

fish which he appeared to take great pleasure in
catching. He seemed to enjoy the repose and com-

parative solitude of this place, where he met but

few persons, except those of my own family, for we

usually saw but little company. He always assured

Ime that he passed his visits agreeably, and had

reason   to believe he  expressed his  real feelings.
         the familiar   conversations
   " In                                 of these friendly

visits, he always appeared to me to be a much more

extraordinary being than even his writings, and

VOL. I.                 Y

              THE LIFE OF

vast discoveries, would have led me to suppose him;

and, in the extent of intellectual powers, I shall

ever think that he lived and died without an equal."

   The reader has already been made acquainted

with those experiments which led Davy to modify

the prevailing opinions, with regard to the constitu-

tion of the muriatic and oxymuriatic acids ; and on

the false assumption that oxygen existed in the lat-
ter gas, to refer the deposition of water which takes
place upon heating a metallic oxide in the former,
to the supposition that muriatic acid contains a large
proportion of water as essential to its composition.

Upon observing, however, that charcoal, if freed

from hydrogen and moisture, even when ignited to
whiteness in oxymuriatic, or muriatic acid gas, by

the Voltaic battery, did not effect the least change
in them, he was led to suspect the accuracy of his

previous conclusion ; and on retracing his steps, and
entering upon a new path of enquiry, he ultimately

succeeded, after one of the most acute controversies

that ever sprang from a chemical question, in recall-

ing philosophers to the original theory of Scheele,
by establishing the important truth, that oxymuria-
tic acid is, in the true logic of chemistry, a simple

body, which becomes muriatic acid by its union with

hydrogen.

The new views arising out of such a revolution

in chemical opinion are certainly not the least im-

portant of those to which the discoveries of Davy

given birth.   Dr. Johnson has remarked, that
 of the most  hazardous attempts of criticism is
Ihave

" one
to choose the best amongst many good." am much
mistaken, however, if the chemists of Europe will

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  323

not, without hesitation, pronounce his researches
into the nature of oxymuriatic acid, and its rela-
tions, with the exception of those by which he
established the chemical laws of Voltaic action, to
be by far the most important of all his labours ; not
only as evincing the ascendancy of his genius, and
the steadiness of his perseverance, but as marking a
new and splendid era in chemical science.

  It is much more difficult to eradicate an ancient

error than to establish a new truth ; and on this oc-

casion, he had not only to contend against the pam-

Ipered errors of a domineering system, but against

the equivocal and illusive evidence, or, if may be

allowed the expression, the apparent neutrality of
facts by which the truth of his theory was to be
judged. In consequence of the constant and often
unsuspected interference of water, there is scarcely a
result connected with the chemical history of the
bodies in dispute, that did not admit of being

equally well explained upon the hypothesis that
oxymuriatic acid is a compound, as upon that of its

being a simple or undecompounded substance. The
question could never have been determined but by
an investigation of the most refined and subtile na-

ture ; so delicately was the evidence balanced, that
nothing but the keenest eye, and the steadiest hand,
could have determined the side on which the beam

 preponderated.

    The illustrious discoverer of oxymuriatic acid

 considered that body as muriatic acid freed from

 hydrogen, or, in the obscure language of the Stahl-
 ian school, as muriatic acid deprived of phlogiston^
 whence he assigned to it the name of dephlogisticatcd

                                   Y2

324 THE LIFE OF

muriatic acid. Upon the establishment of the anti-
phlogistic theory by Lavoisier, it became essential
to the generalization which distinguished it, that a
body performing the functions of an acid, and above
all, supporting the process of combustion, should be
regarded as containing oxygen in its composition ;
and facts were not wanting to sanction such an in-
ference. The substance could not even be produced
from muriatic acid, without the action of some body
known to contain oxygen ; while the fact of such a

body becoming deoxidated by the process, seemed
to demonstrate, beyond the possibility of error, that

the conversion of the muriatic into the oxymuriatic
acid, was nothing more than a simple transference
of oxygen from the oxide to the acid : an opinion
which was universally adopted, and which for near-
ly thirty years triumphed without opposition.

   The body of evidence by which Davy overthrew

this doctrine, and established the undecompounded

nature of oxymuriatic acid, is to be found in a suc-
cession of papers read before the Royal Society, viz.
in that already announced, in his Bakerian Lecture
for 1810, and in a subsequent memoir read in

February 1811.

   It will be impossible for me to follow the author

Ithrough all the intricacies of the enquiry; but

shall seize upon some of its more prominent points,
and give a general outline of its bearings.

   No sooner had his suspicions been excited with
regard to the compound nature of oxymuriatic acid,

than it occurred to him that, if oxygen were really

present in that body, he might readily obtain it from
some of its compounds ; that, for instance, its com-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  325

 bination with tin would yield an oxide of that metal
 by ammonia ; while those with phosphorus would

 furnish, on analysis, either the phosphorow,?, or phos-

 phon'c acid. But after experiments in which the
presence of water was most cautiously excluded, the
results he had anticipated were not obtained. In
 the place of an oxide of tin, the product, on the
application of heat, volatilized in dense and pungent
fumes ; and, instead of obtaining an acid of phos-

phorus, a body possessing new and unexpected pro-
perties resulted. Again, it had been stated, in

confirmation of the theory that recognised the pre-
sence of oxygen in oxy muriatic acid, that when this

latter body and ammonia were made to act upon

each other, water was formed : our chemist fre-

quently repeated the experiment, and convinced
himself that such was not the fact.

   It had been shown by Mr. Cruickshank, and more

recently proved by MM. Gay Lussac and Th&iard,

that oxymuriatic acid and hydrogen, when mixed in

nearly equal proportions, produce a matter almost

entirely condensable by water, which is common
muriatic acid ; and that water is not deposited in

the operation. Davy made many experiments on

the subject, and he found, that when these gases
were, mingled together in equal volumes over water,
introduced into an exhausted vessel, and fired by the

electric spark, muriatic acid resulted, although, at

the same time, there was a certain degree of conden-
sation, and a slight deposition of vapour ; but on
repeating the experiment in a manner still more

refined, and by carefully drying the gases, such

condensation became proportionally less.

326 THE LIFE OF

   When, in addition to the above experimental evi-
dence, it is stated that MM. Gay Lussac and The'-
nard had proved, by a copious collection of instances,
that in the usual cases where oxygen is eliminated

from oxymuriatic acid, water is always present, and
muriatic acid gas is formed; and as it has been

moreover shown that oxymuriatic is converted into
muriatic acid gas by combining with hydrogen, it is

scarcely possible to avoid the conclusion, that the

oxygen is derived from the decomposition of water,
and not from that of the acid.

   When mercury is made to act, by means of Vol-
taic electricity, upon one volume of muriatic acid
gas, all the acid disappears, calomel is formed, and
half a volume of hydrogen is evolved.

   By such experiments and arguments, Davy was
led to the conclusion that, as yet, oxymuriatic acid
has not been decompounded ; that it is a peculiar

body, elementary as far as our knowledge extends,

and analogous, in its tendency of combination with

inflammable matter, to oxygen gas ; that, in fact,

it may be a peculiar acidifying and dissolving prin-
ciple, forming with different substances compounds

analogous to acids containing oxygen, or to oxides,
in their properties and powers of combination, but
differing from them in being, for the most part,
decomposable by water. On this idea, he thinks
that muriatic acid may be considered as having
hydrogen for its base, and oxymuriatic acid for

its acidifying principle. In confirmation of such
an opinion, it is also important to remark, that in

its electrical relations, oxymuriatic acid maintains
its analogy to oxygen.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  327

   The vivid combustion of bodies in oxymuriatic
acid gas, Davy acknowledges, may, at first view,

appear a reason why oxygen should be admitted as
one of its elements ; but he answers this argument
by stating, that heat and light are merely results of
the intense agency of combination ; and that sulphur
and metals, alkaline earths and acids, become alike

ignited under such circumstances.
   As change of theory with regard to the primitive

must necessarily modify all our views with respect
to the nature of secondary bodies, so must this new
view of oxymuriatic acid affect all our opinions
respecting its compounds. Davy accordingly pro-

ceeded, in the first place, to investigate the various
bodies which had been distinguished by the name of

hyper-oxymuriates, muriates, &c.

  It also became necessary to alter the nomencla-

ture, since to call a body which neither contains

oxygen nor muriatic acid, by a term which denotes
the presence of both, is contrary to those very prin-

ciples which first suggested it. Having consulted
some of the most eminent philosophers, Davy pro-
posed a name founded upon one of the most obvious
and characteristic properties of the oxymuriatic acid,

Ifnamely, its colour, and called it CHLORINE.
        then oxymuriatic acid, or chlorine, does not

contain any oxygen, a question immediately arises
as to the true nature of those compounds in which

the muriatic acid has been supposed to exist in com-

bination with a much larger proportion of oxygen
than in the oxymuriatic acid, in the state in which
it has been named by Mr. Chenevix hyper-oxygen-

ized muriatic acid.

328 THE LIFE OF

    In his Bakerian Lecture of 1810, entitled, "On
some of the Combinations of Oxymuriatic Gas and
Oxygen, and on the Chemical Relations of these

Principles," he details a number of experiments for
the illustration of this subject, and arrives at the
conclusion, that the oxygen in the hyper-oxymuri-
ate of potash is in triple combination with the metal
and chlorine. He likewise confirms his views, with
regard to the elementary nature of this latter body,
by a series of new enquiries, and shows that they
are not incompatible with known phenomena: for
instance, Scheele explained the bleaching powers of
oxymuriatic gas, by supposing that it destroyed
colours by combining with Phlogiston. Berthollet*
considered it as acting by imparting oxygen ; Davy
now proves that the pure gas is wholly incapable of
altering vegetable colours, and that its operation in
bleaching entirely depends upon its property of de-
composing water, and of thus liberating its oxygen.f

IThe experiment by which he demonstrated this fact

is so simple and satisfactory, that shall here relate

it. Having filled a glass globe, containing dry
powdered muriate of lime, with oxymuriatic gas,
lie introduced into another globe, also containing
muriate of lime, some dry paper tinged with litmus,

   * Berthollet first applied oxymuriatic acid for the purpose of
bleaching, in France ; from whence Mr. Watt introduced it into

England.

  f Dr. Thomson has more recently explained the operation, by

supposing that water is decomposed, and that its hydrogen goes to
the chlorine, and its oxygen to the water, forming with the latter
a deutoxide of hydrogen, or the oxygenated water of Thenard,

which he considers as the true bleaching principle.

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           329

that had been just heated; by which device the

intrusion of moisture was effectually prevented.
After some time, this latter globe was exhausted,

and then connected with that containing the oxy-
nuiriatic gas, and by an appropriate set of stop-
cocks, the paper was exposed to the action of the

gas thus dried : no change of colour in the test

paper took place, and after two days, there was

scarcely a perceptible alteration ; while some similar

paper dried and introduced into the gas, that had
not been exposed to muriate of lime, was instantly

bleached.

   As an illustration of the eagerness with which he

seized upon facts, in order to apply them to econo-
mical purposes, it may be stated that, on reflecting
upon the theory of bleaching, and on the changes

which its agents undergo, he was led to propose the

use of a liquor produced by the condensation of

oxymuriatic gas in water, containing magnesia dif-

fused throughis           as superior to the oxymuriate of

lime commonly employed.*it,

  It has been very truty observed, that all know-

ledge which gained tends towards the acquisition

of more, just as the iron dug from the mine facili-
tates in return the working of the miner. Never

* Experience has not confirmed the value of this suggestion.

Davy imagined that the vegetable fibre was injured by the saline

residuum and having found that muriate of magnesia was less
it

   is

        ;
               ;

                                     it

                                                                   ;

                                                          is,
                                                                     a

                                                                                 is
                                                                                                     by
corrosive than muriate of lime, he was led to propose the substitute

above stated. The fact, however,  that the fibre  injured

the chlorine and as this body has only slight affinity for mag-

nesia, too quickly abandons       and consequently the oxymuriate

of lime still preferred.

330 THE LIFE OF

was this truth more forcibly illustrated than by the

discovery of the nature of chlorine. In the progress
of that train of enquiry, which became necessary for
the adjustment of our views as they regarded the
combinations of that body, Davy discovered a series
of new compounds, the history of which he com-
municated in successive papers to the Royal Society.

   In a memoir read in February 1811, entitled,
" On a Combination of Oxy muriatic Gas and Oxy-
gen Gas," he announced the existence of a protoxide
of chlorine, under the name of Euchlorine ; and in

a communication from Rome in the year 1815, he
described another compound of chlorine and oxy-
gen, containing a still larger proportion of this latter
element, and which has since been made the subject
of a. series of experiments by Count Stadion of

Vienna. As it does not exhibit any acid properties,
Dr. Henry proposes to call it a Peroxide, in prefer-
ence to Deutoxide ; thinking it probable that inter-

mediate compounds, between this and the protoxide

already mentioned, may be hereafter discovered.

   His paper on euchlorine abounds with interest.
He found that by acting on the salts formerly de-

nominated hyper-oxy muriates, by muriatic acid, the

gas evolved differed very greatly in its properties,
with the different modes of preparing it. When
much acid was employed with a small quantity of
the salt, and the gas was collected over water, it
was not found to differ from oxymuriatic gas ; but
when, on the other hand, the gas was procured by
means of a weak acid, and a considerable excess of

the salt, at a low heat, and was collected over mer-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     331

ctiry, it possessed properties essentially different.

Its colour, under such circumstances, was of a dense

tint of brilliant yellow-green, whence the name of
euchlorine* When in a pure form, this gas is so
readily decomposed, that it will sometimes explode

during the time of its transfer from one vessel to

another, producing both heat and light with an

expansion of volume, f and it may always be made
to explode by a very gentle heat, often even by

that of the hand.

   The results of its explosion indicate its compo-
sition to be one atom of chlorine, and one of oxy-

gen. None of the metals that burn in chlorine act

upon this gas at common temperatures ; but when

the oxygen is separated, they then inflame in the

residual chlorine. This fact Davy illustrated by a

I Ifseries of experiments, one of which, from its ex-
treme beauty, shall here relate.      a glass vessel,

containing copper-leaf, be exhausted, and the eu-

chlorine afterwards admitted, no action will take

place; but throw in a little nitrous gas, and a
rapid decomposition will ensue, and the metal will

burn with its accustomed brilliancy.

   The discovery of this interesting gas, and that
of the facts connected with it, not only confirmed

the novel views with regard to the elementary na-

 - * From tv and

   t The most vivid effects of combustion known are those pro-

duced by the condensation of oxygen, or chlorine : but in this
instance, a violent explosion with heat and light is produced by

their separation, and expansion; a perfectly novel circumstance
in chemical philosophy.

                               THE LIFE OF

 ture of chlorine, but they reconciled the contradic-
 tory accounts of different authors respecting the
 properties of that body.

    The weak attraction subsisting between the ele-
ments of this compound gas, which by a compa-
ratively low temperature are made repulsive of each
other, confirms also the supposition of Davy, that
oxygen and chlorine belong to the same class of

 bodies.

   The discovery of the peroxide of chlorine was
made during an examination of the action of acids
on the hyper-oxymuriates of Chenevix, undertaken
by Davy in consequence of a statement of M. Gay

Lussac, that a peculiar acid, which he called chloric

acid, might be procured from the hyper-oxymuriate

of baryta by sulphuric acid. With regard to this

acid, which its discoverer considered as composed

of one atom of chlorine and five atoms of oxygen,
Davy entered into a warm controversy, affirming
that the fluid in question owed its acid powers
to combined hydrogen ; and that it was analogous

to the other hyper-oxymuriates, as being triple com-
pounds of inflammable bases with chlorine and oxy-
gen, in which the two former determine the cha-

Iracter of the compound : this opinion, however,

lie afterwards abandoned, and have reason to be-

lieve that he regretted ever having advanced it.

   Amidst these new views, it became necessary to
alter our opinions with regard to many of those

compounds which have been termed muriates, but
which, it would appear, contain neither muriatic
acid nor oxygen, but are, strictly speaking, com-
binations of metals with chlorine, held in union

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  333

by a very powerful affinity, since chlorine is capa-
ble of expelling the whole of the oxygen from any
metallic oxide, and of taking its place ; even those

metals that are most distinguished by their affinity
for oxygen, abandon it whenever their oxides are
heated in chlorine, in which case oxygen gas is

disengaged.

   The same metal is also capable of uniting with
different proportions of chlorine, which, so far as
has been yet ascertained, are definite, and in no case
exceed two proportions to one of metal. Hence it

was proposed by Davy, in fixing the nomenclature
of these compounds, to designate such as contain
the least proportion of chlorine by the termination
ane, added to the Latin name of the metal, as cu-

prane for that of copper ; those containing the
larger proportion of chlorine, by the termination
anea, as cupranea. The chemical name of our com-
mon culinary salt, in conformity with such a no-

menclature, would be sodane. This proposition,

however, has not been adopted ;* the compounds

of metals and chlorine are either called chlorurets,

or what is preferable, from their analogy with the
similar compounds of oxygen, chlorides, and which

are further distinguished as protochlorides, dento-

chlorides, &c.

   In connexion with the history of these chlorides,
a question arises of great interest and obscurity, and

   * A little reflection will convince us that such a nomenclature
could never have been adopted with propriety. It is in direct de-

fiance of the Linneean precept, that a specific name must not be
united to the generic as a termination ; besides which, such teftns

could never have been preserved in translations into other languages.

334 THE LIFE OF

which has engaged the attention of some of our
most distinguished chemists, whether such a body,
when dissolved by water, remains as a chloride ; or,
by decomposing that fluid, and combining with its
elements, is not immediately converted into a mu-

riate? With respect to several of these chlorides,

no doubt can be entertained as to the fact of their
decomposing water ; for instance, the chloride of
phosphorus is thus acted upon, the oxygen of the
water forms phosphorous acid with the phosphorus,
while its hydrogen unites with the chlorine to form
muriatic acid ; and as those products are such as do
not combine with each other, but exist in a state of
mixture in the water, each may be recognised by its

peculiar properties. In like manner, as Davy has

observed, when water is added in certain quantities

to Libavius's liquor (deutochloride of tin), a solid
crystalline mass is obtained, from which oxide of
tin and muriate of ammonia can be obtained by

ammonia.

   In his Elements of Chemical Philosophy, Davy

has been, in many instances, explicit on this point ;
and his opinions are favourable to the idea that
chlorides become muriates by being dissolved in
water : thus, he states that the perchloride of iron
" acts with violence upon water, and forms a solu-
tion of red muriate of iron ;" and he observes that
the permuriate " forms a solution of green muriate

of iron by its action upon water."* With regard,

    * For an admirable paper upon this subject by Mr. R. Phillips,
in which all the material points of the subject are considered with
that acumen which distinguishes its author, see Annals of Philo-
sophy, vol. i. New Series.

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  335

however, to the general principle, that chlorides

become muriates by solution, there are difficulties

Iwhich do not fall within the province of a biogra-
pher to discuss.      shall merely observe that such a

change is, in many cases, so inconsistent with our

preconceived opinions, that very strong evidence is

required to reconcile us to its truth. We are un-

doubtedly prepared to hear that much may happen

between the cup and the lip, but that common

salt should be a chloride of sodium on our plates, and
a muriate of soda in our mouths, is certainly a very

startling assertion.

The reception which the chloridic theory met

with from the chemical world might aptly enough

be adduced in illustration of that remark with
Iwhich  commenced the preceding chapter. At

first, its truth was questioned, and no sooner had

this been triumphantly established, than an attempt
was invidiously made to transfer the glory of the

Idiscovery from Davy to the French philosophers.

Upon each of these points, shall beg to offer a few

observations.

First, with regard to the fact of chlorine being

as yet an undecompounded body. The very an-
nouncement of a theory so adverse to the universal
faith of Europe, was a signal for open hostilities ;

the observations of Dr. Murray may be considered

as expressing the sentiments of most of the leading
chemists on the first publication of the novel views
of Davy. " Opinions," says he, " more unexpected

have seldom been announced to chemists, than those

lately advanced by Mr. Davy with regard to the

constitution of the muriatic and oxymuriatic acids ;

336 THE LIFE OF

viz. that the latter is not a compound of muriatic

acid and oxygen, but a simple substance, and that
the former is a compound of this substance with

hydrogen. The more general principle connected

                                                  is,
with these opinions, that oxymuriatic acid like

oxygen, an acidifying element, forming with in-

flammables and metals an extensive series of analo-

gous compounds, leads still more directly to the
subversion of the established chemical systems, and
to an entire revolution in some of the most impor-

tant doctrines of the science."

Dr. Murray entered the lists as the avowed par-

tisan of the theory of Berthollet Dr. Davy, on the
                                 ;
other hand, appeared as the champion of his bro-
Ather's doctrine.                   a
                       severe contest ensued, and both

combatants displayed equal skill and strength. The

object of the former was to demonstrate the pre-
sence of water, or its elements, as constituent part

of muriatic acid and he proposed to determine the
              ;
point by combining the dry gases of muriatic acid;

and ammonia for as these bodies did not contain

its elements, should water appear, he maintained

that  it    must be considered as pre-existing in the
          it
muriatic acid while, on the contrary, no water
              ;                  a
                                             a
                       it
could be procured, would be unphilosophical toa if

suppose present, but that muriatic acid gas must,
in that case, be considered as compound of hydro-

gen and chlorine. In performing this experiment,

Dr. Murray did succeed in obtaining portion of

water but the inference from such fact was ques-
      ;

                          if
tioned on the other side, upon the assumption of the

humidity of the gases. As all parties, however,

seemed to agree, that every source of error could

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  337

be excluded, the combination of these gases would
furnish an experimentum crucis, by which the truth
or fallacy of either theory might be established,

Davy, when at Edinburgh, was desirous of repeat-
ing the experiment with Dr. Hope, and it was ac-

cordingly made in the College Laboratory. Sir
George Mackenzie, Mr. Playfair, and some other

gentlemen, were present. The results were commu-

nicated in Nicholson's Journal by Dr. Davy, and

may be briefly stated as follows : The alkaline and

acid gases were pure, and both had been previously

dried by exposure for sixteen hours to substances

having a strong attraction for water. The appara-
tus consisted of a plain retort of about the capacity
of twenty-six cubic inch measures, with a stop-cock ;

and of a receiver, with a suitable stop-cock. The
latter was filled over mercury with one of the gases,

which from the receiver passed into the exhausted

retort by means of the stop-cocks; the other gas

was introduced the same way into the retort ; and

thus alternately about ninety cubic inches of each

gas were combined. All the salt having then been

driven into the bulb of the retort by the heat of a

spirit lamp, the neck was cooled and kept cold by

moistened cloths, whilst the bulb was heated by a

coke fire, till the muriate began to sublime, and to
make its appearance at the curvature of the vessel

when the fire was withdrawn. The result was then

examined, while the bottom of the retort was still

very hot: a dew,' just perceptible, was observed
lining the cold neck. The quantity of water was so

extremely small, that the globular particles compos-

ing this dew could scarcely be perceived by the

VOL. i.  z

338 THE LIFE OF

naked eye ; now the quantity of water, according to
hypothesis, should equal no less than eight grains.
There is no small difference, it must be confessed,

between that quantity and a dew barely perceptible,
and which may reasonably be referred to a minute
quantity of vapour in the gases, or to a little mois-
ture derived from the mercury, a small quantity of
which entered the retort with the gases. Dr. Hope
wished to ascertain how much water would produce

such a dew as was observed. For this purpose he
heated in a retort, of a similar size to that used in
the experiment, a single drop of water, which it

may be said weighs about a grain. The appearance
of condensed water, in this instance, in the neck of

the retort, was much greater than in the preceding :
he considered it as being three or four times as

great.*

   From these results it may be concluded, on Dr.
Murray's own ground of reasoning, that water is not
a constituent part of muriatic acid gas, and that
this substance is a compound merely of chlorine and
hydrogen ; for it is easy to account for the presence
of about one-third of a -grain of water from various
sources, while it is impossible to account for the
absence of eight grains upon any theory except that

Iwhich supposes the gas to be anhydrous.
        shall not pursue the numerous other experi-

ments by which it was attempted to prove the fal-
lacy of Davy's views ; they all turn upon the same
point, and were refuted by the same vigorous me-

    * Sir Humphry Davy, during some experiments on the diamond,

subsequently ascertained that less than 100th of a grain of water
is sufficient to produce a sensible dew on a polished surface.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                             339

thods of enquiry. The chloridic theory may there-

fore now be considered as fully established : the phi-

losophers who were for so long a period hostile to

its reception, have  at length yielded    their assent;
and Berzelius, in a  paper published in
                                         the " Annales

de Chimie," on the subject of sulpho-cyanic acid,

has unconditionally tendered his allegiance ; while

the subsequent discovery of iodine and bromine has

confirmed, by the most beautiful analogies, the

views so satisfactorily explained by experiment.

   As to the claim of priority which has been urged

by several philosophers in favour of the French

chemists, Davy, in speaking of Gay Lussac's paper,

published in the "Annales de Chimie" for July

1814, observes, that "the historical notes attached

to it are of a nature not to be passed over without
animadversion. M. Gay Lussac states, that he and

M. The"nard were the first to advance the hypothesis

that chlorine was a simple body; and he quotes

M. Ampere as having entertained that opinion

before me. On the subject of the originality of the

Iidea of chlorine being a simple body, have always
Ivindicated the claims of Scheele; but must as-
sume for myself the labour of having demonstrated

its properties and combinations, and of having ex-

Iplained the chemical phenomena it produces ; and

am in possession of a letter from M. Ampere, that
shows he has no claims of this kind to make." *

The question of priority appears to me to be rea-

dily settled by a reference to printed documents.
Davy published his " Elements of Chemical Philo-

* Royal Institution Journal, vol. i. p. 283.

                     z2

340 THE LIFE OF

sopby" in 1812, containing a systematic account of
his new doctrines concerning the combinations of

simple bodies. Chlorine is there placed in the same

rank with oxygen, and finally removed from the

class of acids. In 1813, M. Thenard published the
first volume pf his " Trait6 de Chimie Elementaire

Theorique et Pratique,"  in which he states  the com-
position of oxymuriatic  acid as follows :
                                             " Compo-

sition. The oxygenated muriatic gas contains the

half of its volume of oxygen gas, not including that

which we may suppose in muriatic acid." It was

not until the year 1816, that, by a note in his fourth

volume, he appears to have at all relaxed in his
attachment to the old theory of Lavoisier and Ber-

thollet; and it will presently appear, that at the

period above mentioned, iodine had been discovered,

and its analogies to chlorine fully established, by the

Isagacity of Davy.

   Having, as trust, offered an impartial view of
Ihis claims to the establishment of the chloridic

theory, shall resume my narrative of those events

which more immediately connect themselves with

his personal history at this period.

   The great fame of Davy, and the high import-
ance of the discoveries which had bestowed be-
aa

                    I
                                                             a
                                                                    it,
                                                                                         a
came general theme of admiration throughout the
scientific circles of Europe, and induced the mem-
bers of the Dublin Society to invite him to that

city, for the purpose of delivering course of lec-
tures. From the authentic documents which have

been placed in my hands, am enabled to give

particular account of this transaction.

   At meeting of the Dublin Society held on the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  341

 3rd of May 1810, the following Resolutions were

 proposed and unanimously carried, viz.

    1. "That it is the wish of the Society to commu-

 nicate to the Irish public, in the most extended

manner consistent with the other engagements of

the Society, the knowledge of a Science so intimately
connected with the improvement of Agriculture and
the Arts, which it is their great object to promote ;
and that, with this view, it appears to them ex-

tremely desirable to obtain the fullest information
respecting the recent discoveries made by Mr. Davy,

in Electro-chemical science.
    2. " Resolved, That application be made to the

Royal Society, requesting that they will be pleased
to dispense with the engagements of Mr. Davy, so
far as to allow the Dublin Society to solicit the
favour of his delivering a course of Electro-chemical

Lectures in their new Laboratory, as soon as may be
convenient after their present course of chemical

lectures shall have been completed by their Professor

Mr. Higgins.
   3. " That the sum of four hundred guineas be

appropriated out of the funds of the Society, to be
presented to Mr. Davy, as a remuneration for the

trouble and expense which they propose he should

incur, and as a mark of the importance they attach

to the communication which they solicit."

   Mr. Leslie Foster having stated to the Dublin
Society that the " Farming Society of Ireland" were
desirous of availing themselves of this opportunity
to apply to Mr. Davy to repeat before them the six
lectures on the application of chemistry to agricul-

ture, which he delivered this year (1810) to the

342 THE LIFE OF

Board of Agriculture in England, and that they
requested the Dublin Society would accommodate
them with the use of their Laboratory for that pur-
pose, all the members of the Dublin Society having
free admission to such lectures

    The following Resolutions were passed by the
Du"bTlihnatSoincietthye : event of Mr. Davy coming over to
Ireland, and consenting to deliver the Course refer-
red to, the Farming Society shall be accommodated
with the use of the Laboratory, according to their

request.

   "That it be referred to the Committee of Eco-

nomy to consider on what terms, and under what
regulations, it may be expedient to issue tickets of
admission to the Electro-chemical Course, so as to

reimburse to the Society the expenses attendant on
the arrangement; and that, in order to give the
fullest effect to such regulations, the members of the
Society renounce any claim to gratuitous admission
to this course."

  A letter having been addressed to Mr. Davy by

the Secretary of the Society, inviting him to Dub-
lin, for the purpose of delivering courses of lectures,
in conformity with the foregoing resolutions, the
following answer was received from him :

TO JOHN LESLIE FOSTER, ESQ. M. P. SECRETARY

        TO THE DUBLIN SOCIETY.

I SIR,  May 30, 1810.
HAD the honour of communicating your letter
to the President and Council of the Royal Society,

who have desired me to express to you, Sir, and

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  343

through you, to the Dublin Society, the lively in-
terest they feel in the prosperity of that useful
public body, and the desire that they have to pro-

mote its important object.
   On these grounds, they have been pleased to

permit me to be absent from the meetings of the

Royal Society, during the period that may be ne-
cessary for delivering a Course of Lectures at the
Laboratory of the Dublin Society, in the month of

November next.

   Be pleased to express to the Dublin Society my
grateful acknowledgments for the honour they have
done me in making such a proposition ; and assure

Ithem that shall use my best exertions to promote

their views for the extension of Chemical Science,

Iand every other species of useful knowledge.
      beg to be permitted to thank you, Sir, for the
flattering manner in which you had the goodness

Ito convey to me their proposal.
                 am, Sir, with great respect,
                Your obliged and obedient servant,
                                     H. DAVY, SEC. R. S.

   On the commencement of the Course, on the 8th
of November 1810, three hundred and seventy-one
admission tickets had been issued ; and the Com-
mittee of Chemistry having expressed their opinion
to the Society, that the lecture- room would not
afford accommodation for a greater number of per-
sons, the Assistant Secretary was directed to limit
his tickets to that number. On the 15th instant,

.however, the number was increased to four hundred,

without inconvenience.

344 THE LIFE OF

  At the close of the Course, on the 29th of No-

vember, the Dublin Society passed the following

Resolutions :
   " Resolved, That the thanks of the Society be

communicated to Mr. Davy for the excellent Course
of Lectures which, at their request, has been deli-

vered by him in their Laboratory ; and to assure
him that the views which led the Society to seek

for these communications, have been answered even

beyond their hopes ; that the manner in which he

has unfolded his discoveries has not merely imparted

new and valuable information, but further appears
to have given a direction of the public mind towards

Chemical and Philosophical enquiries, which cannot

fail in its consequences to produce the improvement
of the Sciences, Arts, and Manufactures in Ireland.

   " That the thanks of the Society be communi-

cated to the Royal Society for their ready compli-

ance with our request, in dispensing with the en-

gagements of   Mr. Davy, during the  last six  weeks.
   " That Mr.  Davy be requested to            the sum
                                     accept

of five hundred guineas from the Society."*

The following letter appears, from the date, to

have been written about a week before his arrival in

Dublin.

         TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,   October 12, 1810.

Upon every occasion your recommendation, or

opinion, would have great weight with me.

   * There were four hundred tickets issued for the Course, sixty
of which were honorary ; the produce of the remainder amounted

to 672/. 5*. 3d. Davy received 5251.; and the surplus went to
officers and servants, and for the discharge of incidental expenses.

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                345

Amongst the candidates for the office of Clerk to
Ithe Royal Society, there is one Mr. W
                                             , that

am well acquainted with, and who was formerly at-

tached to the Royal Institution. He appears to me,
as well from his scientific character, as from his ha-

Ibits and pursuits, to be admirably fitted for the
situation.  advised him nearly two months ago,

in consequence of a conversation with Sir Joseph
IBanks, to offer himself for the situation.
                                             cannot

therefore interest myself for any other person who

Idoes not possess superior qualifications.

   Sir Joseph's maxim, which hope will be adopted

Iby all the members, is "let it be given to the most
worthy."    have no doubt that Mr.           would

Ifill the situation with credit, and that he is a very

worthy man; but, from all that can learn, his
claims are much inferior to those of W       . We

want not merely a civil, gentlemanlike, honest man,

but a man a little accustomed to calculation, to astro-

Inomical observation, and to experiment.

      am in a delightful country here the Valley of

the Tyne enjoying a few days' leisure after a rather

Ihard chemical campaign, and preparing health and

spirits for another in Ireland, where am going

next week.
I hope to be in London by the first week in De-
Icember.
            intend next summer to go into Cornwall
IGod willing ; and will not go through without

Iseeing you, and telling you that, under all circum-

stances, shall always think of you with the warm-

est esteem, and shall always be

            Your sincere friend,

                                    H. DAVY.

346 THE LIFE OF

   In the following year, Davy was again solicited
by the Dublin Society to deliver lectures in their
laboratory ; and at a meeting of the members on the
13th of June 1811, a series of resolutions were

passed, by which he was empowered to procure
copies of many of the geological sketches referred to
in a course of lectures he had delivered on Geology

at the Royal Institution ; and also to superintend
the construction of a large Voltaic battery, for the
illustration of the proposed lectures.

   In compliance with this request, Davy delivered

two distinct courses ; one on the Elements of Che-

mical Philosophy, the other on Geology, for which
he received the unanimous thanks of the Society,
and as a more substantial testimony of their grati-
tude, the sum* of seven hundred and fifty pounds ;
the receipt of which Davy acknowledged by the

following letter.

TO B. MAC CARTHY, ESQ. ASSISTANT SECRETARY
                  TO THE DUBLIN SOCIETY.

I SIR,                Dublin, December 9, 1811.

HAVE received your letter, inclosing a draught

for seven hundred and fifty pounds Irish.

  I am very much gratified by the thanks of the
IDublin Society, for the courses of lectures which
Ihad the honour of delivering in their laboratory ; and

  am proud of their opinion, that they will be useful

to the Irish public.

   * These Courses were more numerously attended than those in

1810, there having been issued about five hundred and twenty-five
tickets ; the proceeds of which were 1101/. 2s.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   347

   The attention, candour, and indulgence with

Iwhich they were received by the audience, shall

remember with the warmest feelings of gratitude as

Ilong as live.
  I have the honour to be, Sir, with much esteem,
                                    H. DAVY.
your obliged and obedient servant,

   Before he quitted Dublin, the Provost and Fel-
lows of Trinity College conferred upon him the

honorary degree of LL.D., as an expression of the

high admiration which his eminent scientific merits

had so universally commanded.

   In the month of August, in the same year, his

opinion was requested by a committee, as to the
best method to be adopted for ventilating the House
of Lords ; to which circumstance he alludes in the
following note to his friend Mr. Pepys.

I IMY DEAR PEPYS,                   August 10, 1811.

FIND that am engaged on Wednesday, to

meet Lord Liverpool, at the House of Lords, to

consider a mode of ventilating it.

  IThis business, most unluckily, will prevent my

accompanying you ; but shall be glad to go with

you on some other day, and to touch up the trout at
Cheynies, and afterwards to proceed to Serge Hill.
                                    H. DAVY. .
Very affectionately yours,

   This undertaking, it must be allowed, was on

Davy's part a most complete failure: whether he
had miscalculated the diameter and number of the
apertures necessary for establishing a current, it is

 348 THE LIFE OF

difficult to say, but it was obvious that the stream
of fresh air thus introduced was by no means ade-
quate to the demand for it. *

    The failure, so vexatious to Davy, became to
others a fertile source of pleasantry, and numerous
epigrams, not exactly of a character to meet the
public eye, were very generally circulated, and
which, in recording the miscarriage of science, dis-
played the triumph of wit.

   The scientific renown of Davy having attracted
the attention of his late Majesty, at that time Prince
Regent, he received from his Royal Highness the
honour of Knighthood, at a levee held at Carlton
House, on Wednesday, the 8th of April 1812 ; and
it may be remarked, that he was the first person
on whom that honour had been conferred by the

Regent.

   On the day following this occurrence, Sir Hum-
phry delivered his farewell lecture before the mem-
bers of the Royal Institution ; for he was on the eve
of assuming a new station in society, which induced
him to retire from those public situations which he
had long held with so much advantage to the world,
and with so much honour to himself. How far

I Isuch a measure was calculated to increase his happi-

ness shall not enquire ; but am bound to observe,

   * In February 1812, he exhibited a model, in one of his lectures
at the Royal Institution, in illustration of his plan ; from which it

appeared that the air deteriorated by respiration was conducted
through three copper pipes, terminating in a single tube, to the
roof of the building; and by means of ventilators below, there was
a constant supply of fresh air, the circulation of which was pro-
moted by a furnace.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  349

that it was not connected with any desire to aban-
don the pursuit of science, nor even to relax in his

accustomed exertions to promote its interests. It

was evident, however, to his friends, that other

views of ambition than those presented by achieve-

ments in science, had opened upon his mind: the

wealth he was about to command might extend the
sphere of his usefulness, and exalt him in the scale
of society : his feelings became more aristocratic, he

discovered charms in rank which had before escaped
him, and he no longer viewed Patrician distinction
with philosophic indifference.

  On the llth of April 1812, Sir Humphry married

Mrs. Apreece, the widow of Shuckburgh Ashby
Apreece, Esq. eldest son of Sir Thomas Apreece :
this lady was the daughter and heiress of Charles
Kerr, of Kelso, Esq. and possessed a very considera-

ble fortune.

   Immediately after the celebration of the marriage,
Sir Humphry and his bride proceeded to the hospi-
table mansion of Sir John Sebright, and afterwards

made a tour through Scotland, receiving wherever
they went the most flattering marks of attention.

   During their excursion, Davy wrote various let-

Iters to his scientific friends, several of which shall

introduce ; but, in order that those to Mr. Children

may be understood, it will be necessary that the
reader should be made acquainted with a transaction

which occurred in the year 1811.

   In consequence of some conversation on gunpow-

der, during which Davy observed that its composi-
tion might be greatly improved by rendering it less

hygrometric, a proposition was started, that he should

350 THE LIFE OF

join Mr. Children and Mr. Burton in establishing
a manufactory for its preparation upon chemical
principles. Whether Davy considered himself, in the

strict commercial sense, a partner, or merely a che-

mical adviser, it is perhaps not easy to determine ;
but it is quite clear that both Mr. Children and Mr.
Burton considered him in the former light, although
it is an act of justice to those gentlemen to state,
that the very moment Davy expressed his disincli-

nation to such an arrangement, they immediately,

Iwithout the slightest hesitation, released him from

all responsibility. This am enabled to assert, after
a most careful investigation of all the correspond-

ence that passed upon the occasion.

           TO JOHN GEORGE CHILDREN, ESQ.

                                        Harewood House, July 14, 1812.
       MY DEAR FRIEND,

  I IAM very sorry that missed you the day before
I set out on my journey. You will have learnt
I Ifrom your solicitor that signed the articles.
Istill think shall return before any powder will

be made, at least if you do not make it till De-

cember, for our present intention is to be in town

Iearly in that month.
       sent to you an imperfect copy of my book,*
in which there were no engravings, and in which
one cancel was not inserted, thinking that you
would prefer a copy sent in that way : the can-
celled leaf, which you have not, contains a correc-
tion for the quantity of nitrous acid gas and water

  * " Elements of Chemical Philosophy," to be presently noticed.

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             351

to form the crystalline compound, which is the

base of oil of vitriol. Three parts nitrous acid

Igas condense four parts sulphurous gas.

      have my little apparatus, which will enable me

to pursue my experiments on gunpowder. There

is one conclusion very obvious resulting from the

new facts, a perfect gunpowder ought to con-

tain no more charcoal than is necessary to convert

the oxygen of the nitre into carbonic acid. Sul-

phur forms from nitre just as much elastic fluid

as charcoal, i. e. if similar quantities of nitre be

entirely decomposed, one by charcoal, and one by

sulphur, and if the sulphurous gas and the carbo-

nic acid gas be compared, their volumes will be

equal. The advantage of forming carbonic acid

gas is, that it is more readily disengaged from the
alkali. Now it is a question, whether sulphur will

decompose sulphate of potash, it will decompose
the carbonate ; of this we are sure.

There ought, then, to be just as much sulphur

as will form sulphuret of potash with the potash :

191 of nitre, 28*5 of charcoal, and 30 of sulphur,

are the true proportions for forming nothing but

sulphuret of potash and elastic matter.

Pray send me some cards to circulate; address
Ito me, Post Office, Edinburgh.
                                         hope you got

ICavendish's balance.

     have been here for two days : it is a very mag-

nificent place : good fishing for pike, trout, and
           ILady D. desires her kind remembrances.
grayling.     am, my dear friend,

           Most affectionately yours,

                                  H. DAVY.

352 THE LIFE OF

           TO THE SAME.

           Dunrobin Castle, near Golspie, August 21.

MY DEAR FRIEND,
I HOPE you are making progress in our manu-
Ifactory.
           shall expect, on my return, to find your

powder the best and strongest, and to make trial
I Iof it.
wish had some of it here, the black-cock
Iand grouse would feel its efficacy.
                                        have been

expecting a letter from you every day.

  IThis house is so delightful, the scenery so grand,

and the field-sports so perfect, that think we shall

not quit it for a fortnight.

  I Iwent to Inverness and fished for salmon.

I Ialso went to two or three other places, but not one

did catch till arrived here. The first day I

Ilanded seven noble ones, and played three more in

four or five hours. The next day played eight
and landed three, besides white trout in abundance.

  I have shot only one day, for a few hours ; but

Iwe found grouse at every fifty yards, and shot

seven. We are just going to try sea-fishing.
   Pray write to me a little news of what is doing

Ifor science and the world.

      beg you will remember me most kindly to your
father and to Dr. Babington, and Brande, when

Iyou see them.
                  am, my dear friend,
                            Most affectionately yours,
                                                   H. DAVY.

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     353

           TO WILLIAM CLAYFIELD, ESQ.

           Dunrobin, near Golspie, August 28, 1812.

   DEAR CLAYFIELD,

I AM much obliged to you for two very kind

Iletters, and for a box containing specimens from St.
Vincent.*  beg you will thank the gentleman

who was so good as to cause them to be collected

Ifor me. The box followed me to Inverness.
   The ashes, think, are likely to fertilize Bar-
badoes. There is a parallel case of materials

having been carried so far in the eruption in

IIceland in 1783.
      have been with my wife making a tour through

the North since the beginning of July. We have

arrived at our extreme point, and shall slowly pro-

ceed South in about a fortnight.

  I wish you could be of our party here ; we are in
a delightful house, that of Lord Stafford, in a coun-
Itry abounding with fish and game.
                                       have caught
Iabout thirty salmon since have been here, and
Ikilled grouse, wild ducks, teal, &c.
                                       have not yet
Ishot a stag, but hope to do so this next week.
I have just published a volume of the Elements
Iof Chemistry, and hope to publish another in the

Icourse of the Spring.         shall be able to

   Having given up lecturing,

devote my whole time to the pursuit of discovery.

   * Specimens of substances ejected from the crater in that island,
which Mr. Clayfield forwarded to Davy, in consequence of having
heard that he had been engaged in examining the sand collected
at Barbadoes, and which was a product of the same eruption.

            I. 2 A

354 THE LIFE OF

I Ihave not sent you a copy of my book, for
have thought that the best mode of avoiding giving

Ioffence to some, was by not making presents at all.

Had not so determined, one of the first copies
would have been sent to you, as a mark of the

warm esteem and regard of                H. DAVY.

              Your affectionate friend,

TO SAMUEL PURKIS, ESQ.

MY DEAR PURKIS,           Dunrobin Castle, Aug. 29, 1812.
You may probably be surprised to receive a letter

from me from this remote corner of the North ; but

I Iowe you a letter, and have a great inclination,
Iwherever may be, to discharge all debts, and parti-

cularly those rendered due by kindness.

Receive my warm acknowledgments for your

kind congratulations on my becoming a Benedick.
I can now speak from experience, in which you
Ihave long participated.
                          am convinced that the

natural state of domestic society is the best fitted

for man, whether he be devoted to philosophy, or to

Iactive life.
      shall have much pleasure in presenting my wife
to you and to Mrs. Purkis, on my return.
We have had a delightful tour through the High-
lands. We are at the extreme point of our journey.
The pleasures of a refined society that of Lord

and Lady Stafford's family have induced us to
make a long pause here. We think we shall be in

ILondon the beginning of December.
       have spent some days such as we passed toge-

ther in Wales. We have had all the varieties of

river, mountain, and wood scenery. The Lakes of

            SIR HUMPHJRY DAVY.                     355

Scotland are infinitely finer than those of Wales ;

but the glens of the Principality may fairly stand

I Iin competition with those of the Highlands.
      hope shall find you and your family in good
Ihealth, and that you will have spent a very pleasant
summer.     am, my dear Purkis,

         Very sincerely and affectionately yours,
                                    H. DAVY.

TO JOHN GEORGE CHILDREN, ESQ.

I IMY DEAR FRIEND,
                    Dunkeld, Sept. 27, 1812.

HAVE received your two kind letters. hope

your quiet life, and reasonable medical discipline,
will entirely restore your health.
We are now on our return, and probably shall
arrive in London before the middle of November :

our time, however, is uncertain, as the Election may
hasten, or keep us back for want of horses.
I can do nothing respecting the licence till my
Ireturn ; will then see Mr. Wharton, or Mr. Van-
Isi ttart.
            have another subject of conversation in
Iwhich they are interested, and can easily intro-
duce that of gunpowder.

  I have been tolerably successful as a shot lately.
I have not fished. My last adventure was at the
ISpey, near Gordon Castle, where killed some no-
Ible salmon. At Blair Athol shot some ptarmigans
I Iand a stag.
            am now at Dunkeld, which think

the most beautiful habitable spot in the Highlands.

The Tay, a noble river, rolls with a majestic stream

through lofty woods seated upon cliffs and rounded
hills ; and in the background are the Mountains of
Benyglor and the hills of Killycrankie.

            21 A 2

356 THE LIFE OF

   My wife desires her kind remembrances. Pray

offer mine to your father and daughter, and believe
me to be always most affectionately yours,

                                                      H. DAVY.

*****TO THE SAME.
  I IMY DEAR FRIEND,

WE are on our return :
                         Edinburgh, October 14.

                         am well, but am

sorry to say that Lady D. is very much indisposed,

and anxiety for her hastens my journey to town.

I have received a very interesting letter from
Ampere. He says that a combination of chlorine
and azote has been discovered at Paris, which is a

fluid, and explodes by the heat of the hand; the

discovery of which cost an eye and a finger to the
Iauthor. He gives no details as to the mode of com-
bining them.  have tried in my little apparatus

with ammonia cooled very low, and chlorine, but

******without success.          dresses
   There is little doing here.

and dances. Sir James Hall is writing on a sort of

Deluge. Playfair is the true and amiable Philoso-

pher. My brother is making experiments on animal

matter.

  I hope your gunpowder works are nearly finished.
I Ishall be at the opening ball. As soon as return
I shall give my mind up to this matter. My wife
desires her kind remembrances.
                                Mine to your

worthy father and Anna.

God bless you, my dear friend, and believe me

              Ever affectionately yours,
                                     H. DAVY.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   357

On his return to town, after this tour, the follow-

ing letter was addressed to his friend at Tonbridge :

I MY DEAR CHILDREN,                 October 24, 1812.

HAVE just seen Pepys, and rejoice that he gives
me so good an account of your health. My wife is

Imuch better, except that she has a swollen foot.

have never seen her in such good health and spirits.

IShe is resolved to lead a home life of perfect quiet

for six weeks, and fear you will not be able to

tempt her to quit her fire-side, though there is no

visit she would make with greater pleasure : but

lameness does not suit the country ; and for one so
enthusiastically fond of nature, it would be vexa-

tious to be in the country, and not to be able to

enjoy hills, and meads, and woods.
IBut am ready to come to my business whenever
I Iyou think can be useful.
                                  shall set to work to

make gunpowder with as much ardour as Miles

IPeter hope with similar results.
  I shall not be able to endure a very long separa-

Ition from my wife, but for three or four days am

Iat your command.
       have been working yesterday and to-day on

some new objects; and we are to have a meeting

on Wednesday, at one o'clock, at the Institution,
to try to make this compound of azote and chlorine,

and to try some other experiments. Afterwards we

If I(Angling Chemists) propose a dinner at Brunet's.

   you can come to town on that day, will promise

to return with you.

God bless you, my dear Children, and believe me

to be most affectionately yours,    H. DAVY.

 358 THE LIFE OF

                   CHAPTER IX.

 Davy's " Elements of Chemical Philosophy" examined. His Me-

    moir on some combinations of Phosphorus and Sulphur, &c.
    He discovers Hydro-phosphoric gas. Important Illustrations of
    the Theory of Definite Proportionals. Bodies precipitated from
    water are Hydrats. His letter to Sir Joseph Banks on a new
    detonating compound. He is injured in the eye by its explo-
    sion. His second letter on the subject. His paper on the Sub-
    stances produced in different chemical processes on Fluor Spar.

        His work on Agricultural Chemistry.

   THE " Elements of Chemical Philosophy," a work
to which he has alluded in several of the preceding

letters, was published in June 1812. It is dedicated

to Lady Davy, to whom he offers it " as a pledge
that he shall continue to pursue Science with un-

abated ardour."

   This work, although only a small part of the

great labour he proposed to accomplish, must be

considered as one of high importance to the cause

of science. It has not perhaps announced any dis-

coveries which had not been previously commu-
nicated to the Royal Society, but it has brought
together his original results, and arranged them in
one simple and digested plan it has given cohe-
rence to disjointed facts, and has exhibited their

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  359

mutual bearings upon each other, and their general

relations to previously established truths.

   Very shortly after the publication of this first
part, it was asserted by a scientific critic that the
work could never be completed upon the plan on
which it had commenced, which was little less than
a system of chemistry, in which all the facts were

to be verified by the author : an undertaking far
too gigantic for the most intrepid and laborious ex-
perimentalist to accomplish. There was too much
truth in the remark : the life of the Author has

closed the work remains unfinished.
   Although it bears the title of " Elements," its

plan and execution are rather adapted for the adept
than the Tyro in science ; it has, however, enabled
the discoverer to expand several of his opinions with
a freedom which is not consistent with the studied

compression and elaborate brevity that necessarily
characterise the style of a Philosophical Memoir,
and thus far it may have served the more humble

labourer.

    The first impression which this volume must pro-
duce, is that of admiration at the rapid and tri-
umphant progress of Chemistry, during the period
of a very few years ; while a comparison of this
work with others, even of very recent date, will
show how much we are indebted for this progress
to the unrivalled labours of Davy.

    The first part of his projected system, which con-

stitutes the volume under review, extends only to
the general laws of chemical changes, and to the
primary combinations of undecompounded bodies.

360 THE LIFE OF

It is resolved into seven divisions, upon each of

Iwhich propose to offer some remarks.

   THE FIRST DIVISION embraces the consideration

of the three different forms of matter, viz. Soli-

dity, Liquidity, and elastic Fluidity; and that of

the active powers on which they depend, and by
which they are changed, such as Gravitation, Co-
hesion, Calorific repulsion, or Heat, and Attrac-
tions chemical and electrical; the laws of which

he has expounded in a lucid and masterly manner ;
although it will be only necessary to quote the

following passage, to show that the greatest  "phIni-
losopher may occasionally slide into error.

solids, the attractive force predominates over the

repulsive ; in fluids, and in elastic fluids, they may
be regarded as in different states of equilibrium ;

and in ethereal substances, the repulsive must be

considered as predominating over and destroying

the attractive force." A reviewer has very justly

observed, that it is difficult to conceive how so much

error and confusion could have been collected, by
Itsuch an author, into so short a sentence.
                                              is a

solecism to say that two forces may exist in dif-
ferent states of equilibrium ; besides, it is generally

admitted that the repulsive force alone exists in
elastic fluids, and that it is only compensated by

external pressure, or gravitation.

   In treating the subject of Heat, he maintains the

same opinion, though in a manner somewhat more

subdued, as that which he had formed at the very
commencement of his scientific career,* that it is

* See Page 44.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  361

nothing else than motion, and that the laws of Heat
are the same as the laws of Motion.

   In taking a general view of the subject of Che-

mical Attraction, there is a remarkable clearness
in his enunciation of its several propositions, and
a great felicity in the selection of its illustrations.

He combats the theory of Berthollet, respecting
the influence of mass, with singular success, and

confirms the general law, that all bodies combine
chemically, in certain definite proportions to be

expressed by numbers ; so that, if one number be

employed to denote the smallest quantity in which
a body combines, all other quantities of the same
body will be as multiples of this number ; and the
smallest proportions in which the undecompounded
substances enter into union being known, the con-
stitution of the compound they form may be learnt ;
and the element which unites chemically in the

smallest quantity being expressed by unity, all the

other elements may be represented by the relations
of their quantities to unity. Unfortunately, how-

ever, there has existed amongst philosophers a want

of agreement as to the unit to which the relative
values of the other numbers shall be referred. Mr.

Dalton selected Hydrogen as the unit ; Davy fol-
lowed his example, but doubled the weight of
oxygen ; while Wollaston, Thompson, and Berze-

lius, have proposed oxygen as the most convenient
unit, since that element enters into the greatest

number of combinations.

   To Dalton is now universally conceded the glory
of having established the laws of definite propor-
tions; but in unfolding them, he has employed

362 THE LIFE OF

expressions which involve speculations as to their

physical cause, and has thus given to that, which

is nothing more than a copious collection of facts,

the appearance of a refined theory. It may be

perfectly true, as Mr. Dalton supposes, that all

bodies are composed of ultimate atoms ; but in the

present state of our knowledge, we can neither form
any idea of the nature of such atoms, nor of the

manner in which they may be grouped together.

We are therefore indebted to Davy for having,

by his early and powerful example, taught the che-

mist how to disentangle fact from hypothesis, and

to investigate the doctrine of proportionals, without

any reference to the atomic theory which has been

proposed for its explanation.
   THE SECOND DIVISION treats of Radiant or

Ethereal Matter, and of its effects in producing

vision, heat, and chemical changes. It contains

some refined speculations respecting the possible

conversion of terrestrial bodies into light and heat,

and vice versa.

couTnHt EofT"HEIRmDpyDreIValISIuOnNdecpormespeonutsndeuds  with an ac-
                                                           Substances,"

or those which support combustion ; together with
that of the compounds which they form with each

other. Upon this occasion, Davy has completely

rescued us from the trammels of the Anti-phlogistic

theory, and has shown that, so far from the process
of combustion depending upon the position or trans-
fer of oxygen, it is a general result of the actions of

any substances possessed of strong chemical attrac-

tions, or different electrical relations, and that it

takes place in all cases in which an intense and

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                363

 violent motion can be conceived to be communi-

 cated to the corpuscules of bodies, without any re-
 gard to the peculiar nature of the substances en-
gaged. The announcement of the general law is
followed by a history of the only two undecom-
pounded bodies included under this arrangement,
viz. Oxygen, and Chlorine.* In naming a class of
bodies by their relations to combustion, he distinctly

states that he merely intends to signify that the
production of heat and light is more characteristic
of their actions, than of those of any other sub-

stances ; and that they are, at the same time, op-
posed to all other undecompounded substances by

their electrical relations, being always in Voltaic
combinations attracted to, or elicited from the po-

sitive surface; whereas all other known undecom-

pounded substances are separated at the negative

surface.

   THE FOURTH DIVISION comprises the history
of Undecompounded Inflammables, or Acidiferous
Substances, not Metallic, and that of their binary

combinations with oxygen and chlorine, or with

each other.

   The bodies considered under this division, are
the following: Hydrogen, Azote, Sulphur, Phos-
phorus, and Boracium, or Boron. Under the history
of Sulphur, he gives us the true theory of the pro-
cess by which sulphuric acid is produced by the
combustion of that body in mixture with nitre, and
which had never before been explained in any

chemical work.

* Iodine, Fluorine, &c. had not been discovered at this period.

364 THE LIFE OF

   THE FIFTH DIVISION contains the Metals ; their

primary combinations with other undecompounded
bodies, and with each other.

   In the order of classification adopted on this oc-

casion, the newly discovered inflammable metals,

producing by combustioi) alkalies, alkaline earths,
and earths, commence the series ; next come those

which produce oxides ; and lastly, those which pro-
duce acids. Thus are we presented with a chain
of gradations of resemblance which may be traced
throughout the whole series of metallic bodies.

   THE SIXTH DIVISION comprehends certain bodies
(the Fluoric Principle, and the Ammoniacal Amal-
gam) which present some extraordinary and anoma-

lous results. It is worthy of remark, that, at the

period at which this work was written, Davy con-
sidered the peculiar acid developed from fluor spar,
by the action of sulphuric acid, as a compound of an
 acid unknown in a separate state, and water ; whence
he proposed to call it Hydro-fluoric acid, a term
 extremely objectionable from its ambiguity, since it
 would indicate either hydrogen or water as one of

its constituents. At the conclusion, however, of

 this chapter, in consequence of having observed cer-
 tain phenomena displayed by this gas, when in com-
 bination with silica and boracic acid, he for a mo-

 ment seems to have caught the truth, but it as

 quickly eluded his grasp, and he dismisses the con-
 jecture which it was his good fortune some years
 afterwards to verify, viz. that the fluoric acid is a
 compound of an unknown principle, analogous to
 chlorine, with hydrogen and water, and that Jluor
 spar is a compound of the same principle with
 calcium, or the base of lime.

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  365

THE SEVENTH DIVISION offers to the chemical

enquirer various speculations, as to the probable na-

ture of certain bodies hitherto undecompounded.
He observes, that "we know nothing of the true

elements belonging to nature ; but as far as we can
reason from the relations of the properties of matter,
that hydrogen is the substance which approaches

nearest to what the elements may be supposed to be.

It has energetic powers of combination, its parts are

highly repulsive of each other, and attractive of the
particles of other matter ; it enters into combination

in a quantity very much smaller than any other
substance, and in this respect it is approached by no
known body. After hydrogen, oxygen perhaps
partakes most of the elementary character : it has a
greater energy of attraction, and, with the exception

just stated, enters into combination in the smallest

proportion."

   In conclusion, he hints at the possibility of the

same ponderable matter in different electrical states,
or in different arrangements, constituting substances
chemically different, and he thinks that there are
parallel cases in the different states in which bodies
are found connected with their different relations to

temperature: thus, steam, ice, and water, are the

same ponderable matter; and certain quantities of

steam and  ice  mixed   together produce ice-cold water.
           the   forms   of natural bodies may depend
   " That

upon different arrangements of the same particles of

matter, has been a favourite hypothesis, advanced in

the earliest era of physical research, and often sup-

ported by the reasonings of the ablest philosophers.

This sublime chemical speculation, sanctioned by the

366 THE LIFE OF

authority of Hooke, Newton, and Boscovich, must

not be confounded with the ideas advanced by the

alchemists, concerning the convertibility of the ele-

ments into each other. The possible transmutation

of metals has generally been reasoned upon, not as a

philosophical research, but as an empirical process.

Those who have asserted the actual production of

the precious metals, or their decomposition, or who
have defended the chimera of the philosopher's stone,

have been either impostors, or men deluded by im-

postors. In this age of rational enquiry, it will be
useless to decry the practices of the adepts, or to

caution the public against confounding the hypo-

thetical views respecting the elements founded upon

distinct analogies, with the dreams of alchemical
visionaries, most of whom, as an author of the last

century justly observed, professed an art without

principles, the beginning of which was deceit, and

the end poverty."

   On the 18th  of June  1e8n1t2it,leDd av"yOnpressoemnetedCotomtbhie-
Royal Society
                a paper

nations of Phosphorus and Sulphur; and on some

other subjects of Chemical Inquiry."

By the researches detailed in this Memoir, he

accomplished three important objects : he established

the existence of some new compounds furnished

additional evidence in support of the doctrine of

definite proportions and ascertained that most of

the substances obtained from aqueous solutions by
precipitation, are compounds of water, or Hydrats.
In the first place, he recognised the formation of
two distinct compounds of phosphorus and chlorine :

one, solid, white, and crystalline in its appearance ;

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  36?

the other, fluid, limpid as water, and volatile. The
latter body he found to contain just double as much

chlorine as the former.

   On experimenting upon this latter body with

water, he obtained a crystallized substance which he
proposed to call Hydro-phosphorous acid, since it

consists of pure phosphorous acid and water. By
decomposition in close vessels, it is resolved into

phosphoric acid, and a peculiar gas, consisting of one
proportional of phosphorus and four of hydrogen,
and for which he proposed the term Hydro-phos-
phorous gas. The reader, no doubt, will be imme-
diately struck with the impropriety of a nomen-
clature in which the prefix Hydro is made to
express water in the former, and hydrogen in the

latter instance.

   In examining the results of the mutual decompo-

sition of water and the phosphoric compounds of
chlorine, Davy remarks, that it is scarcely possible
to imagine more perfect demonstrations of the laws
of definite combination : no products are formed

except the new combinations, (phosphor/c acid from

the solid, phosphorous acid, from the liquid com-
pound, and in both muriatic acid ;) neither oxygen,

hydrogen, chlorine, nor phosphorus, is disengaged ;

and therefore the ratio in which any two of them
combine being known, the ratio in which the rest
combine, in these cases, may be determined by cal-

culation.

    Lastly, he ascertained that most of the substances

 obtained by precipitation from aqueous solutions are
 compounds of water: thus zircona, magnesia, and
 silica, when precipitated and dried at 212, still con-

368 THE LIFE OF

tain definite proportions of water ; and many of the
substances which had been considered as metallic
oxides, he found, when obtained from solutions, to

agree in this respect; and that their colours and

other properties are materially influenced by this

combined water.

   On the 5th of November 1812, was read before

the Royal Society a letter addressed by Davy to
Sir Joseph Banks, on the subject of the detonating
compound already alluded to in his communications
to Mr. Children. He expresses his anxiety to have

the circumstances made public as speedily as possi-
ble, since experiments upon the substance may be
connected with very dangerous results.

   He had some time before received information
from Paris of a combination haying been effected
between chlorine and azote, and that it was distin-

guished by detonating properties ; but he was wholly
ignorant of the mode by which it had been pre-
pared, and he could not obtain any information
upon this point from any of the French journals.

   So curious and important a result could not fail
to interest him, as he had himself been long engaged
in experiments on the action of azote and chlorine,
without gaining any decided proofs of their power

of combining with each other. It was evident from

the notice, that this new body could not be formed
in any operations in which heat is concerned ; he

therefore attempted to combine the elements by pre-

senting them to each other artificially cooled, the

azote being in a nascent state. For this purpose he
introduced chlorine into a solution of ammonia ; a
violent action ensued, and minute films of a yellow

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  369

colour were observed on the surface of the liquor,

but they immediately resolved themselves into gas.

As he was about to repeat the experiment with
some other ammoniacal compounds, Mr. Children
reminded him of the circumstance which he had

previously communicated to him in a letter, that

Mr. James Burton, jun r, on exposing chlorine to a

solution of nitrate of ammonia, had observed the

formation of a yellow oil, but which he had not been
able to collect. Davy availed himself of the hint,

and obtained the substance in question : on examin-

ing its properties by the application of heat, the
tube in which it was contained was shivered to

atoms by its explosion, and he received a severe
wound in the transparent cornea, which was fol-

lowed by inflammation, and disabled him from

pursuing his enquiry.

   In the following July, however, he communicated

in a second letter to Sir Joseph Banks, the continua-

tion of this enquiry, and furnished a full and satis-

factory history of the body in question. Having

procured it in sufficient quantity, he attempted to
effect its analysis by the action of mercury, but a

violent detonation occurred, and he was again

wounded in the head and hands ; fortunately, how-
ever, the injury was slight, in consequence of his

having taken the precaution to defend his face by a

plate of glass attached to a proper cap.

   In a subsequent experiment, by using smaller

quantities, and recently distilled mercury, he suc-
ceeded in obtaining results without any violence of

action : the mercury united with the chlorine, and

the azote was disengaged; from which he was en-

VOL. i.  2B

370 THE LIFE OF

abled to conclude that it was composed of four
volumes of chlorine and one volume of azote. For

Ithis new body Davy suggested the name of Azotane;

but have already observed, that his nomenclature
of the compounds of chlorine has never been adopt-

ed ; the detonating substance is now very properly

                 denominated Chloride of Nitrogen.

\ Shortly after the publication of this paper, M.
                    Berzelius, in a letter to Professor Gilbert, asserted
                   that " Azotane" is nothing more than dry nitro-

fmorumrisataicwaecaikd,asqiuncaereitgiadi.sso"lveTshesselowfelwy  in water, and
                                                                  observations,"
says he, " show clearly that Davy's analysis of this

substance is inaccurate, and that he corrected his

results in consequence of theoretical views."

This was an imputation upon the philosophical

character of Davy, which excited in him no small

degree of indignation. In reply he says, " It is
difficult to discover what meaning M. Berzelius

attaches to the term dry nitro-muriatic acid ; and it

is wholly unnecessary to refute so unfounded and

vague an assertion."

   On July 8, 1813, a paper was read by Davy be-

fore the Royal Society, entitled " Some Experiments

and Observations on the Substances produced in dif-
ferent chemical processes on Fluor Spar."

   The views which he formerly entertained with re-

spect to the fluoric acid have been already noticed :*
in the present paper he renounces his previous opi-
nions, and establishes, by experiments of the most
satisfactory character, that the base of fluoric acid is

a highly energetic body not hitherto obtained in an

insulated form, and the properties peculiar to which

* See page 364.

                       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.        371

are as yet unknown. It appears, however, to belong
to the class of negative electrics, and, like oxygen

and chlorine, to have a powerful affinity for hydro-
gen and metallic substances. With hydrogen, it

constitutes the peculiar and very powerful acid long
known by the name of fluoric acid, with boron,
the fluoboric, and with silicium, the silicated-fluoric,

acids. Although this theory had originally suggest-

ed itself to the mind of Davy, yet the chemical

world is unquestionably indebted to M. Ampere for
establishing it; and
                       the  English chemist has very
justly acknowledged    the  obligation. " During the
I Ipsaeyrsiodhe,th"at
                        was engaged in these    investigations,"
                     received two letters from
                                                M. Ampere, of

Paris, containing many ingenious and original argu-

ments in favour of the analogy between the muri-

atic and fluoric compounds. M. Ampere commu-

nicated his views to me in the most liberal man-

ner : they were formed in consequence of my ideas

on chlorine, and supported by reasonings drawn from
the experiments of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard."

  It has been stated that Davy gave his last public

lecture on the 9th of April 1812 ; he however after-

wards delivered an occasional lecture to the Ma-

nagers, on his own discoveries, and did not formally

resign his professorship until the next year.

The following record has been extracted from the

Journal of the Institution.

   " Minutes of the Proceedings of a general Month-
ly Meeting of the Members of the Royal Institu-
tion, held on Monday, April 5, 1813.

   " Earl of Winchelsea, President, in the Chair.
   "This being the meeting appointed by Article 2.

                                            2B2

372 THE LIFE OF

chap. xix. of the bye-laws, for putting in nomination
from the chair the professors for the year ensuing,
Sir Humphry Davy rose, and begged leave to resign
his situation of Professor of Chemistry ; but he by
no means wished to give up his connection with the
Royal Institution, as he should ever be happy to
communicate his researches, in the first instance, to
the Institution, in the manner he did in the pre-
sence of the members last Wednesday, and to do all
in his power to promote the interest and success of
this Institution.

   " Sir H. Davy having retired, Earl Spencer moved,
That the thanks of this Meeting be returned to Sir
H. Davy, for the inestimable services rendered by
him to the Royal Institution. This motion was se-
conded by the Earl of Darnley, and on being put,

was carried unanimously.

   " Earl Spencer further moved, That in order more
strongly to mark the high sense entertained by this
Meeting of the merits of Sir H. Davy, he be elected
Honorary Professor of Chemistry ; which, on being
seconded by the Earl of Darnley, met with unani-

mo"usThaepprCohbaaitrimona.n having declared the Professor-
ship of Chemistry vacant, put in nomination Wil-
liam Thomas Brande, Esq. F.R.S. as a candidate for
that office, with a salary of %QQl. per annum.

    " On Monday, June 7, 1813, William Thomas
 Brande, Esq. was unanimously elected."

    In March 1813, Davy published his "Elements
 of Agricultural Chemistry," being the substance of

 a course of lectures which he had, for ten successive
 seasons, delivered before the members of the Board

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   373

of Agriculture, to whom the work is inscribed, as a

mark of the author's respect.
   This work, which may be considered as the only

system of philosophical agriculture ever published
in this country, has not only contributed to the ad-
vancement of science, but to that for which he has

an equal claim upon our gratitude, the diffusion
of a taste amongst the higher classes for its cultiva-
tion ; for it has been wisely remarked, that not he

alone is to be esteemed a benefactor to mankind

who makes an useful discovery, but he, also, who

can point out an innocent pleasure.

  It has been already stated, that Davy became

early impressed with the importance of the subject :

that in future life its investigation should have

been to him so fertile a source of pleasure, may be
readily imagined, when it is remembered with what

delight he contemplated  the ever varying
creation. " am," said    he, " a lover of
passionate

Iforms of
INature, with an ungratified imagination, and shall

continue to search for untasted charms for hidden

beauties." In unfolding, then, the secrets of vege-

table life, he did but remove the veil from his mis-

tress. From the same poetical feeling sprang his
love of angling : it was a pursuit which carried
him into the wild and beautiful scenery of Nature,

amongst the mountain lakes, and the clear and

lovely streams that gush from elevated hills, or

make their way through the cavities of calcareous
strata.* In the early spring, it led him forth upon

the fresh turf in the vernal sunshine, to scent the

odour of the bank perfumed by the violet, and

* See his Salmonia, Edit. 2. p. 9.

374 THE LIFE OF

enamelled with the primrose, while his heart par-

Iticipated in the renovated gladness of Nature.
        had hoped that, amidst the voluminous corre-

spondence of my late friend Mr. Arthur Young,
some important letters might have been found from
Davy on agricultural subjects ; but the communica-

Itions which took place between them were generally

in conversation, and have therefore only been able

Ito procure two letters, which shall here insert :

the first will show that, during his tours, his atten-
tion was alive to the practices of husbandry ; and
the second will prove that he had once seriously
contemplated the labour of writing the agricultural
history of his native county.

          TO ARTHUR YOUNG, ESQ.

DEAR SIR,                      Killarney, June 1806.
IYou have been of great and durable service to
Ireland.  have met with a number of persons who

have been enlightened by your labours, and who

now follow an enlightened system of Agriculture.

One very intelligent gentleman you will recollect,
Mr. Bolton of Waterford : he is zealously pursuing

Iimprovements, and is instructing his neighbours by
precept and example.  am, &c.    H. DAVY.

   The above letter contains also some observations

on a chemical mixture, but which is unintelligible
from our being ignorant of the conversation to
which it refers.

DEAR SIR,  TO THE SAME.

                                 April, 1807.

T CALLED this morning with the hope of seeing
you, and of gaining some explanation on the sub-

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                375

Iject of your note.   shall not be able to leave Lon-
Idon until the middle of July, and must return

Iearly in October.
       do not think there would be sufficient time

between these periods for accomplishing the objects
Iyou mention ; nor do think myself qualified to
Iwrite upon the agriculture of a county.
                                                             wished

likewise to devote the leisure of this summer to

Ithe preparation of my lectures on the Chemistry of
Agriculture for publication.  have a great deal of

information concerning the mineralogy and geology
of Cornwall, but none concerning the farming.

  If Ithe business admits of being postponed,
might perhaps be able to accomplish it next sum-

                              part of this summer,
mer ; that  is,

                                                          :

                                           a

                               I
            by devoting

and the whole of my next but would rather con-

fine myself to my own province, the mineralogy
and geology of the county, and leave the agricul-

ture to abler hands.

   Be pleased to receive my thanks, and to commu-
nicate them to the President for the honour of the

proposal.             I  remain, &c.

                                                             H. DAVY.

The majority of my readers will probably concur
in the wisdom of this decision they will consider
                              :

                                a
that to have doomed Davy to drudgery of this

nature, would have been wasting talents upon an

object which might be accomplished by smaller

means. From my acquaintance, however, with Corn-

wall,      am induced to form different opinion.
       I                      a

Davy never approached even those subjects which

had already received from others the most thorough

376 THE LIFE OF

investigation, without extracting from them new
and important truths. What, then, might not have
been expected from his genius, when applied to a
department upon which the light of science had

scarcely dawned?

   It is only in a primitive country like Cornwall,

that the natural relations between the varieties of
soil and the subjacent rocks can be studied with
success: as we advance to alluvial districts, such

relations become gradually less distinct and appa-
rent, and are ultimately lost in the confused compli-
cation of the soil itself, and in that general obscurity
which envelopes every object in the ulterior stages

of decomposition. We can, therefore, only hope to

succeed in such an investigation by a patient and
laborious examination of a primitive country, after
which we may be enabled to extend our enquiries
with greater advantage through those regions which
are more completely covered with soil, and obscured
by luxuriant vegetation; as the eye, acquainted
with the human figure, on gazing upon a beautiful
statue, traces the outline of the limbs, and the swell-
ing contour of its form, through the flowing drape-
ries which invest it. The importance of the sub-
ject, as well as the general interest it has excited,
induce me to offer an analysis of his " Elements of
Agricultural Chemistry."

    The work is divided into eight lectures ; and in
his introductory chapter, after adverting to the diffi-
culties which the enquiry presents to the lecturer,
he offers a general view of the objects of the course,
and of the order in which he proposes to discuss
them.

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       377

   " Agricultural Chemistry has not yet received a

regular and systematic form. It has been pursued

by competent experimenters for a short time only;

the doctrines have not as yet been collected into an

Ielementary treatise ; and on an occasion when am

Iobliged to trust so much to my own arrangements,

and to my own limited information, cannot but

feel diffident as to the interest that may be excited,

Iand doubtful of the success of the undertaking.

know, however, that your candour will induce you

Inot to expect any thing like a finished work upon a

science as yet in its infancy ; and am sure you

will receive with indulgence the first attempt made
to illustrate it, in a distinct course of lectures.

"Agricultural Chemistry has for its objects all

those changes in the arrangements of matter con-

nected with the growth and nourishment of plants ;

the comparative values of their produce as food ;

the constitution of soils ; and the manner in which

lands are enriched by manure, or rendered fertile by

the different processes of cultivation." That such

objects are intimately connected with the doctrines

of chemistry, he proceeds to show by several appro-

Ifpria"te  and striking illustrations.  a  system  of ame-
           land be unproductive, and

liorating it is to be attempted, the sure method of

obtaining the object is, by determining the cause of

its sterility, which must necessarily depend upon

some defect in the constitution of the soil, which

may be easily discovered by chemical analysis. Are

any of the salts of iron present? they may be de-
composed by lime. Is there an excess of siliceous
sand ? the system of improvement must depend on

378 THE LIFE OF

the application of clay and calcareous matter. Is
there a defect of calcareous matter ? the remedy is
obvious. Is an excess of vegetable matter indi-

cated ? it may be removed by liming, paring, and

burning. Is there a deficiency of vegetable matter?

it is to be supplied by manure."
   " In the selection also of the remedy, after the dis-

covery of the evil, chemical knowledge is of the

highest importance. Limestone varies in its com-

position, and by its indiscriminate application we

may aggravate the sterility we seek to obviate.

Peat earth is an excellent manure, but it may con-

tain such an excess of iron as to be absolutely poi-

sonous to plants. How are such difficulties to be

met but by the resources of chemistry ? It is also

evident that the scientific agriculturist should pos-

sess a general knowledge of the nature and compo-
sition of material bodies, and the laws of their

changes ; for the surface of the earth, the atmo-
;

         it

                 is is

                        is it,
sphere, and the water deposited from must, either

together or separately, afford all the principles con-

cerned in vegetation and          only by examining

the chemical nature of these principles, that we are

capable of discovering what       the food of plants,

and the manner in which this food supplied and

prepared for their nourishment."

   Davy likewise advocates the necessity of study-
ing " the phenomena of vegetation, as an important

branch of the science of organized nature for, al-
a

                                                            ;
                                                                               ;

                                                       it
though exalted above inorganic matter, vegetables

are yet in great measure dependent for their ex-

istence upon its laws. They receive their nourish-

ment from the external elements they assimilate

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       379

by means of peculiar organs ; and it is by examining

their physical and chemical constitution, and the

substances and powers which act upon them, and

the modifications which they undergo, that the
scientific principles of Agricultural Chemistry are

obtained."

With respect, however, to the practical utility of

I Ithis latter branch, different opinions have been en-
tertained.  confess,    am inclined to    agree with
                                          the proper
an able reviewer* when  he says, " It is

business of the chemist to examine and ascertain the

nature and properties of dead and inorganized mat-

ter, and the various combinations which, according
to chemical laws, it is capable of forming. The

chemical composition of organized bodies, and of

the products which they form, fall likewise under

his cognizance ; but when he proceeds to consider
the physical constitution of these bodies, and the

manner in which they act in forming their products,

he no longer works with the instruments of the

laboratory, or conducts processes which can be pro-

perly imitated there."
In concluding his introductory observations, he

remarks upon the prejudice which persons, who

argue in favour of practice and experience, very

commonly entertain against all attempts to improve

agriculture by philosophical enquiries and chemical
methods. " That much vague speculation may be

found in the works of those who have lightly taken

up agricultural chemistry, it is impossible to deny.

It is not uncommon to find a number of changes

rung upon a string of technical terms, such as oxy-

            * Edinburgh Review, vol. 22, page 253.

380 THE LIFE OF

gen, hydrogen, carbon, and azote, as if the science

depended upon words, rather than upon things.

But this in fact, an argument for the necessity of
           is,
                          a
Ifthe establishment of just principles of chemistry on
the subject.                 person journeying in the night

wishes to avoid being led astray by the ignis fatuus,
the most secure method to carry lamp in his
                             is                                           a
                                a
own hand."

   " There no idea more unfounded than that
           is                                                                           is a

great devotion of time, and minute knowledge of

general chemistry, are necessary for pursuing experi-
ments on the nature of soils, or the properties of

manures. The expense connected with chemical

enquiries      extremely trifling                                         small closet
           is

                                                                       :

                                                         a

sufficient for containing all the materials required."
In the SECOND LECTURE, he enters upon the

consideration of the general powers of matter, such

as gravitation, cohesion, chemical attraction, heat,

light, and electricity and then proceeds to examine
the elements of matter, and the laws of their combi-
          it
                                            ;

                                           it

                                                                  a
                                                                             a

                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                   ;
nations and arrangements.

   To an audience constituted of persons who were

not familiar with the elementary principles of the

science,   might have been very necessary for the

lecturer to enter upon such preliminary details but

there cannot be any good reason for his having pub-
lished them in his system. As they are to be found

in every work on chemistry,        will not be neces-

sary to bestow upon them any further notice.
   In the THIRD LECTURE, he enters into descrip-

tion of the organization and living system of plants

in which he connects together into general view,

the observations of the most enlightened philoso-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  381

phers who have studied the physiology of vegetation
   those of Grew, Malpighi, Sennebier, Hales, De-

candolle, Saussure, Bonnet, Darwin, Smith, and

above all, of Mr. Knight, whose enquiries upon

these subjects are not only the latest, but by far the

most satisfactory and conclusive.

  IAs there is little in these descriptions that may

not be found in the original authors, shall not un-
necessarily trespass upon the time of the reader by

relating them. In the latter part of this lecture, he
describes the properties and ultimate composition of
the proximate principles of which vegetable matter

consists, and into which it may be resolved by dif-
ferent processes of art ; such are gum, starch, sugar,

albumen, gluten, extract, tannin, resin, oils, &c. &c.

But since the publication of this work, vegetable
analysis has advanced to a degree of refinement

which could scarcely have been anticipated in so

short a period, and consequently many of his state-
ments appear deficient; but his general directions
for conducting an analysis of any vegetable sub-
stance, with a degree of accuracy sufficient for the

views of the agriculturist, remain unimpeached.
   The most valuable, and more strictly original part

of this lecture, is his statement of the quantity of
soluble or nutritive matters contained in varieties of

the different substances that are used as articles of
food, either for man or cattle, and which he has

displayed in a tabular form.

   The analyses were his own, and were conducted

with a view to a knowledge of the general nature
and quantity of the products, rather than to that of
their intimate chemical composition. He proceeded

382 THE LIFE OF

upon the assumption, that the excellence of the differ-

ent articles, as food, will be in a great measure propor-

tional to the quantities of soluble matter they afford;

although he admits that these quantities cannot be re-

garded as absolutely denoting their value. Albumi-

nous or glutinous matters have the characters of ani-

mal substances ; sugar is more, and extractive matter

less nourishing than any other principles composed

of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Certain combina-

tions likewise of these substances may be more nu-

tritive than others. There are some principles also,

which, although soluble in the vessels of the chemist,

pass through the alimentary canal of animals with-

out change ; such is tannin : on the other hand,

there are bodies which, although sparingly soluble

in water, are readily acted upon by the gastric juice;

gluten is a principle of this description.

Shortly after Dr. Wollaston published his scale

of chemical equivalents, it occurred to me that by

applying the sliding rule to a series of nutritive sub-

stances, arranged according to the analyses of Davy,
some curious and important problems * might be

solved ; or at least, that the accuracy of the conclu-

Isions might be thus conveniently submitted to the
test of practice.  accordingly superintended the

construction of such an instrument, and submitted

it to Davy, who expressed his approbation of the

principle, but doubted how far the accuracy of his

analyses would justify the experiment.

   * For example : What weight of wheat is equivalent to a given

weight of oats, barley, rye, &c.? Suppose three hundred pounds
of potatoes feed twenty head of cattle for any given time, how many
will the same weight of oats feed ?

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                383

ITo such a scheme, however, soon found that

there existed a much more serious objection. The
operation of the insoluble matter had been wholly

neglected; and whatever views the chemist may

entertain, the experience of the physiologist has

established, beyond doubt, the influence of such
matter in the process of digestion. The capacity
of the alimentary organs of graminivorous animals

sufficiently proves that they were designed for the
reception of a large bulk of food, and not for pro-

vender in which the nutritive matter is concen-

trated ; and since the gramineous and leguminous

vegetables do not present this matter in a sepa-

rate state, and the animal is not furnished with

                 is,

                                                      ;

                                                      it,
an apparatus by which he can remove                               the ob-

vious inference  that he was designed to feed in-

discriminately upon the whole and that, unless

bulk be taken into the account, no fair inference

can be deduced as to the nutritive value of different

vegetables.

Notwithstanding the difficulties which prevent

our arriving at any thing like an accurate conclu-

sion upon so complicated subject, the results may
        ;a
                                               a

                                                              is
be received as affording some general views with

regard to the comparative value of different nu-
tritive vegetables. It would thus appear that at
        fourth part of the weight of the potatoe
least

consists of nutritive matter, which                               principally

starch       that wheat consists of as much as ninety-

five, barley of ninety-two, oats of seventy-five, rye

of eighty, and peas and beans of about fifty-seven

per cent, of nutritive matter.

384 THE LIFE OF

The FOURTH LECTURE comprises subjects of the

utmost importance, and must be considered as con-

stituting by far the most original and valuable

division of the work. It treats of soils, their

constituent parts, their chemical analysis, their uses,

their improvement, and of the rocks and strata

found beneath their surface.

In the execution of this part of his labours, he

has not only improved on the processes of Fordyce

and Kirwan, but he has enriched the subject with

much interesting and novel research.

   " Soils, although extremely diversified in appear-

ance and quality, consist of comparatively few ele-

ments, which are in various states of chemical com-

bination, or of mechanical mixture.
   " These substances are silica, lime, alumina, mag-

nesia, the oxides of iron, and of manganese ; animal

and vegetable matters in a state of decomposition ;

together with certain saline bodies, such as common
salt, sulphate of magnesia, sometimes sulphate of

iron, nitrates of lime and magnesia, sulphate of pot-

ash,  and  the carbonates    of potash and soda.    with
      The   silica in soils    is usually combined
   "

alumina and oxide of iron ; or with alumina, lime,

magnesia, and oxide of iron, forming gravel and
sand of different degrees of fineness. The carbonate
of lime is usually in an impalpable form ; but some-

times in the state of calcareous sand. The magne-

sia, if not combined in the gravel and sand of the

soil, is in a fine powder united to carbonic acid.

The impalpable part of the soil, which is commonly

called clay or loam, consists of silica, alumina, lime,

and magnesia ; and in fact, usually of the sameis,

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.    385

composition as the hard sand, but more finely di-

vided. The vegetable, or animal matters (and the
first is by far the most common in soils,) exist in

different states of decomposition. They are some-

times fibrous, sometimes entirely broken down and

mixed with the soil.
   " To form a just idea of soils, it is necessary to

conceive different rocks decomposed, or ground into
parts and powder of different degrees of fineness ;

some of their soluble parts dissolved by water, and

that water adhering to the mass, and the whole

mixed with larger or smaller quantities of the re-

mains of vegetables and animals, in different stages
of decay."

   Soils, then, would appear to have been originally
produced from the disintegration of rocks and strata ;

and hence there must be at least as many varieties

of them, as there are species of rocks exposed at the

surface of the earth ; and they may be distinguished

by names derived from the rocks from which they

were formed. Thus, if a fine red earth be found im-

Ifmediately above decomposing basalt, it may be de-
nominated basaltic soil.  fragments of quartz and

mica be found abundant, it may be denominated

granitic soil ; and the same principles may be ex-

tended to other analogous cases.

  A general knowledge then of geology becomes

essential to the scientific agriculturist, not only to

enable him to form a correct judgment with respect

to the connection between the varieties of soil and

the subjacent rocks, but to direct him to the dif-

ferent mineral substances which may be associated

together in their vicinity, and which may contain

principles capable of extending their fertility, or of

VOL. i.                   2c

386 THE LIFE OF

correcting the circumstances upon which their po-

verty or barrenness may depend.

   With this conviction, Davy proceeds to offer a

Igeneral view of the nature and position of rocks and

strata in nature; but which, confess, appears to

me to be wholly useless to those who have any

acquaintance with the subject, and far too meagre

to convey any instruction to those who have not

made this branch of science an object of study.

Upon this view, however, he has grounded a

number of valuable remarks ; although his obser-

vations appear to have been too limited to enable

him to do justice to a subject of such extent and

importance. Had he fulfilled his intention of mak-

ing a survey of the county of Cornwall, the science

must have been greatly advanced by his labours, for

there is no district in Great Britain so rich in fact,

and so capable of elucidating the history of soil, and
the advantages of cultivation, when conducted on

the principles of chemical philosophy. The soils

superincumbent upon the different rocks are distinct

and characteristic; and even in the same species

Ivarieties may be observed, in consequence of geo-
logical peculiarities.  have, for instance, found

that the fertility of a granitic soil is increased by
the abundance of felspar in the parent rock ; that
of a slaty soil by the degree of inclination or dip of

the strata : but the most extraordinary circumstance

perhaps connected with this subject, is the very

remarkable fertility of the land which lies over the

junction of these rocks, so obvious indeed is it,

that the eye alone is sufficient to trace it.

   We are indebted to the author, in this lecture,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  387

for some very ingenious and important remarks on
the relations of different soils to heat and moisture,
and for a series of experiments by which his views

are supported.

    Some soils, he observes, are more easily heated
and more easily cooled than others : for example,

those that consist principally of a stiff white clay
are heated with difficulty ; and being usually very
moist, they retain their heat only for a short time.
Chalks also are difficultly heated ; but being dryer,

they retain their heat longer, less being consumed
in the process of evaporation.

  A black soil, and those that contain much carbo-

naceous or ferruginous matter, acquire a higher tem-

perature by exposure to the sun, than pale-coloured

soils.

   When soils are perfectly dry, those that most

readily become heated, most rapidly cool ; but the
darkest-coloured dry soil, abounding in animal and

vegetable matters, cools more slowly than a wet pale
soil, composed entirely of earthy matter.

   These results Davy gained by experiments made
on different kinds of soils, exposed for a given time
to the sun, and in the shade ; the degrees of heating

and cooling having been accurately ascertained by

the thermometer.

   Nothing can be more evident, than that the
genial heat of the soil, particularly in spring, must
be of the highest importance to the rising plant.

And when the leaves are fully developed, the

ground is shaded, and any injurious influence,
which in the summer might be expected from too

great a heat, entirely prevented ; so that the tem-

 388 THE LIFE OF

perature of the surface, when bare and exposed to
 the rays of the sun, affords at least one indication
 of the degree of its fertility ; and the thermometer

 may therefore be sometimes a useful instrument to

the purchaser or improver of lands.
    Water is said to exist in soils, either in a state of

chemical combination, or of cohesive attraction. It

is in the latter state only that it can be absorbed by
the roots of plants, unless in the case of the decom-
position of animal and vegetable substances. The
more divided the parts of the soil are, the greater is
its attractive power for water ; and the addition of
vegetable and animal matters still farther increases

this power.
    The quality of soils to absorb water from air, is

much connected with fertility. Davy informs us
that he has compared this absorbent power in nu-
merous instances, and that he always found it great-
est in the most productive lands : he states, however,
the important fact, that those soils, such for instance
as stiff clays, which take up the greatest quantity
of water, when it is poured upon them in a fluid
form, are not such as absorb most moisture from

the atmosphere in dry weather. They cake, and

present only a small surface to the air, and the ve-
getation on them is generally burnt up almost as

readily as on sands.
   There is probably no district in which the im-

portance of moisture in relation to fertility is more
apparent than in Cornwall ; and there is a provincial
saying, that the land will bear a shower every week-
day, and two upon a Sunday : indeed, of such im-
portance is moisture, that it is by no means an un-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  389

common practice to encourage the growth of weeds,
in order to diminish the evaporation ; a necessity
which arises from the excess of siliceous matter in

the soil.

  ITo those who are disposed to prosecute this en-

quiry, should recommend a perusal of Mr. Leslie's

treatise on the " Relations of Air to Heat and

Moisture."'

  I must not quit the consideration of this lecture,

without adverting to the directions with which its

author has furnished the philosophical farmer for
analysing the different varieties of soil ; and which
are so clear, so perfect, and above all so simple, that
they are now introduced into all elementary works

on chemistry, as the only guide to such researches.
His method for ascertaining the quantity of carbo-
nate of lime in any specimen, consists in determining
the loss of weight which takes place on its admix-
ture with muriatic acid ; for since carbonate of lime,
in all its states, contains a determinate proportion of
carbonic acid, it is evident that, by estimating the
quantity of elastic matter given out, the proportion

of carbonate of lime will be known. For conduct-

ing this experiment, he contrived a very simple and
ingenious piece of pneumatic apparatus, in which
the bulk of the carbonic acid is at once measured
by the quantity of water it displaces.

   In his FIFTH LECTURE he enters upon the nature

of the atmosphere, and its influence on vegetables :
he also examines the process of the germination of
seeds, and the functions of plants in their different
stages of growth ; and concludes with a general
view of the progress of vegetation.

390 THE LIFE OF

  I shall merely mention a few of the more interest-

ing points in this enquiry.

   In illustrating the importance of water to the

vegetable creation, he observes that the atmosphere
always contains water in its elastic and invisible

form, the quantity of which will vary with the tem-
perature. In proportion as the weather is hotter,
the quantity is greater ; and it is its condensation
by diminution of temperature, which gives rise to
the phenomena of dew and mist. The leaves of
living plants appear to act upon this vapour, and to
absorb it. Some vegetables increase in weight from
this cause, when suspended in the atmosphere, and
unconnected with the soil ; such are the house-leek,
and different species of the aloe. In very intense
heats, and when the soil is dry, the life of plants
seems to be preserved by the absorbent powers of
their leaves ; and it is a beautiful circumstance in
the economy of Nature, that aqueous vapour is most
abundant in the atmosphere when it is most needed
for the purposes of life ; and that when other sources
of its supply are cut off, this is most copious.*

    * The history of his native county would have furnished him
with a parallel instance of the intelligence and design which
Nature displays in connecting the wants and necessities of the dif-
ferent parts of creation, with the power and means of supplying
them. In a primitive country like Cornwall, the siliceous soil ne-

cessarily requires much moisture, and we may perceive that the

cause which occasions, at the same time supplies this want ; for
the rocks elevated above the surface, solicit a tribute from every
passing cloud ; while in alluvial and flat districts, where the soil is
rich, deep, and retentive of moisture, the clouds float undisturbed

over the plains, and the country frequently enjoys that uninter-
rupted series of dry weather which is so necessary to its fertility.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.           391

If water in its elastic and fluid states be essen-

tially necessary to the economy of vegetation, so
even in its solid form, it is not without its uses.

Snow and ice are bad conductors of heat ; and at a

period when the severity of the winter threatens
the extinction of vegetable life, Nature kindly

throws her snowy mantle over the surface ; while in
early spring the solution of the snow becomes the

first nourishment of the plant ; at the same time, the
expansion of water in the act of congelation, and

the subsequent contraction of its bulk during a

thaw, tend to pulverise the soil, to separate its parts

from each other, and, by making it more permeable
to the influence of the air, to prepare it for the offices

it is destined to perform.

   He next proceeds to consider the action of the

atmosphere on plants, and to connect it with a ge-
neral view of the progress of vegetation. He com-

mences with examining its relations to germination.

  If" a healthy seed be moistened and exposed to

air at a temperature not below 45, it soon germi-
nates ; it shoots forth a plume which rises upwards,

and a radicle which descends.

  If" the air be confined, it is found that, in the

process of germination, the oxygen, or a part of it,

is absorbed. The azote remains unaltered ; no car-

bonic acid is taken away from the air ; on the con-

trary, some is added." Upon this point, critics have

been disposed to break a lance with Sir Humphry.

Linnaeus observes, that the plants which chiefly grow upon the
summit of mountains, are rarely found in any other situation,
except in marshes, because the clouds arrested in their progress by
such elevations, keep the air in a state of perpetual moisture.

392 THE LIFE OF

The doctrine, let it be observed, is at variance with

the numerous experiments made on this subject by

Scheele, Cruickshank, and De Saussure ; the results

of which agree in proving, that if seeds be confined

and made to germinate in a given portion of air, not

a part only, but the whole of the oxygen is con-

sumed ; and that its place is supplied, not merely by
some, but by an equal bulk of carbonic acid.

   Objections have been also started to his theory of

Ithe chemical changes which the seed undergoes

during the process of germination : but were to

enter upon these discussions, time and space would
alike fail me, to say nothing of the patience of the

Ireader, which would be exhausted long before we
could arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.               shall

for the same reasons pass over his observations upon

the influence exerted upon growing plants on the

air: the subject is involved in much difficulty,

which can be only removed by fresh experiments ;

nor, after all, is the great question, whether the

purity of the atmosphere is maintained by vegeta-
tion, of any practical moment, it is one which par-
takes more of curiosity than of use, and might

therefore have been well dispensed with in a system

of agriculture.

sidHereingagr"eethsewpitrhocemssanoyf  other philosophers  in con-
                                       malting as merely    one in

which germination is artificially produced, and in

which the starch is changed into sugar, which sugar

"Itisafterwards, by fermentation, converted   into spirit.
                                               from the
           is," he continues, " very evident

chemical principles of germination, that the process

should be carried on no farther than to produce the

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            393

sprouting of the radicle, and should be checked as
Ifsoon as this has made its distinct appearance.
                                                         it

is pushed to such a degree as to occasion the perfect

developement of the radicle and the plume, a con-
siderable quantity of saccharine matter will have

been consumed in producing their expansion, and

there will be less spirit formed in fermentation, or

Ipro"dAucsedthiins
               distillation.  is  of  some  importance,
               circumstance

Imade, in October 1806, an experiment relating to it.

   ascertained by the action of alcohol, the relative

proportions of saccharine matter in two equal quan-
tities of the same barley ; in one of which the ger-

mination had proceeded so far as to occasion pro-
trusion of the radicle to nearly a quarter of an inch

beyond the grain in most of the specimens, and in
the other of which it had been checked before the

radicle was a line in length ; the quantity of sugar
afforded by the last was to that in the first nearly as

six to five."

The whole of this subject appears to be debateable

ground between the physiologists and chemists : the

one considering the change of starch into sugar as
the result of the vital action of the seed ; the other

affirming that the growth of the germ is in no way ne-

cessary to the result, and is to be considered as a mere

indication of the due degree of change being effected
in the organic matter, or, in other words, that when
the organized parts exhibit a certain degree of de-

velopement, then the inorganic matter is most com-

pletely changed. All growth beyond this is inju-

rious, as leading to a consumption of the inorganic

matter. All less than this is not otherwise disad-

394 THE LIFE OF

vantageous, than as an indication that the inorganic

matter is not duly changed. This change, it is

farther affirmed, so far from depending upon vege-

table life, can be wrought on the matter of the seed

after it is even reduced to powder, or is separated in

the form of starch. At all events, it must be ad-

mitted as a beautiful arrangement in nature, that

the same agents which urge on the developement
of the organized parts, should, at the same time,

assist in preparing food for their support.
   From this subject Davy is very naturally led to

the consideration of the ravages inflicted upon the

infant plant by insects ; the saccharine matter in the

cotyledons at the time of their change into seed-

               leaves, rendering them exceedingly liable to such

             attacks. He appears to have bestowed much atten-

j* tion on the turnip-fly, a coleopterous insect, which

fixes itself upon the seed-leaves of the turnip at

the time that they are beginning to perform their
functions. He relates the several remedies which

have been proposed for this evil ; and from letters

which have been put in my possession, addressed to
Dr. Cartwright as early as the year 1804, he appears

to have been engaged with that gentleman in ex-

periments made by sprinkling the young plants with

lime and urine.

After alluding to the parasitical plants of different

species, which attach themselves to trees and shrubs,

feed on their j uices, destroy their health, and finally

their life, for which, at present, there does not exist

any   remedy, he thus concludes his lecture :  and

   "  To enumerate all the animal destroyers,

tyrants of the vegetable kingdom, would be to give

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      395

a catalogue of the greater number of the classes in

Zoology. Every species of plant almost is the
peculiar resting-place, or dominion, of some insect

tribe ; and from the locust, the caterpillar, and snail,

to the minute aphis, a wonderful variety of the in-

ferior insects are nourished, and live by their ravages

upo"nThthee   vegetable world.   more  destructive  to wheat
             Hessian fly, still

than the one which ravages the turnip plant, has in

some seasons threatened the United States with a
famine. And the French government is at this

time* issuing decrees with a view to occasion the

destruction of the larva? of the grasshopper.
   " In general, wet weather is most favourable to

the propagation of mildew, funguses, rust, and the

small parasitical vegetables ; dry weather, to the in-
crease of the insect tribes. Nature, amidst all her

changes, is continually directing her resources to-
wards the production and multiplication of life ;
and in the wise and grand economy of the whole

system, even the agents that appear injurious to

the hopes, and destructive to the comforts of man,

are in fact ultimately connected with a more exalted

state of his powers and his condition. His industry

is awakened, his activity kept alive, even by the

defects of climates and season. By the accidents

which interfere with his efforts, he is made to exert

his talents, to look farther into futurity, and to con-

sider the vegetable kingdom, not as a secure and

unalterable inheritance spontaneously providing for

his wants, but as a doubtful and insecure posses-

             * January 1813.

396 THE LIFE OF

sion, to be preserved only by labour, and extended

and perfected by ingenuity."
   His SIXTH LECTURE treats of manures of animal

and vegetable origin, and of the general principles

with respect to their uses and modes of application.

  It is evident that plants, by their growth, must

gradually exhaust the soil of its richer and more nu-

trient parts ; and these can be alone restored by the

application of manures. It is equally obvious, that
if a soil be sterile from any defect in its constitution,

such a defect can be only remedied by artificial ad-

ditions. Hence the introduction of foreign matter

into the earth, for the purpose of accelerating vege-

tation, and of increasing the produce of its crops, is

a practice which has been pursued since the earliest

period of agriculture. Unfortunately, however, the

greatest ignorance has prevailed in all ages with re-

gard to the best modes of rendering such a resource

available ; and the farmer, instead of enriching the

soil, has too frequently given his treasures to the
          " It is quite
winds.                   lamentable,"  says an intelligent
writer,*  " to survey    a farm-yard   in many parts of

the kingdom ; to see the abundance of vegetable

matter that is trodden for months under-foot, over a

surface of perhaps half an acre of land, exposed to

all the rains that fall, by which its more soluble and

richer parts are washed away, or perhaps carried

down to poison the water of some stagnant pool,

which the unfortunate cattle are afterwards com-

pelled to drink. From the yard, the manure is

often carted to the field, at the time when the land

is rendered impenetrable by frost ; or, if this opera-

          * Edinburgh Review, vol. xxii. p. 270.

SIR HUMPHBY DAVY.  397

tion be delayed to a less unseasonable period, it is

then frequently laid down in small heaps, or some-
times spread over the surface, exposed for many

days to the sun, the winds, and the rain, as if with

the direct design of dissipating those more volatile
parts which it ought to be the farmer's first endea-

vour to preserve.
   " Nothing can be so likely to remove ignorance

so deplorable, and prejudices so inveterate, as the

diffusion of real knowledge concerning the nature of
manures, and their mode of action on soils, and on

the plants which grow in them/'
   Davy, fully sensible of the practical importance

of the subject, and impressed with the conviction
that it was capable of being materially elucidated by
the recent discoveries of chemistry, determined to

put forth his strength, in order to bring this depart-
ment of agriculture under the dominion of science ;

and upon this occasion our philosopher presents
himself in the only character in which he ever ought

to appear in that of an original experimentalist.
   His first step in the enquiry was to ascertain whe-

ther solid substances can pass from the soil through
the minute pores in the fibres of the root. He tried
an experiment by introducing a growing plant of
peppermint into water which held in suspension a
quantity of impalpably powdered charcoal : but

after a fortnight, upon cutting through different

parts of the roots, no carbonaceous matter could be
discovered in them, nor were the smallest fibres

even blackened, though this must have happened,

Ifhad the charcoal been absorbed in a solid form.

a substance so essential to plants as carbonaceous

398 THE LIFE OF

matter cannot be introduced except in a state of
solution into their organs, he very justly concludes
that other less essential bodies must be in the same

case.

   He also proved by experiment that solutions of
sugar, mucilage, jelly, and other principles, unless

considerably diluted, clogged up the vegetable or-
gans with solid matter, and prevented the transpi-
ration by the leaves : when, however, this precau-
tion was taken, the plants grew most luxuriantly
in such liquids.

   He next proceeded to determine whether soluble
vegetable substances passed in an unchanged state
into the roots of plants, by comparing the products
of the analysis of the roots of plants of mint which
had grown, some in common water, some in a so-
lution of sugar: the results favoured the opinion

that they were so absorbed. It appeared, moreover,

that substances even poisonous to vegetables did
not offer an objection to this law. He introduced
the roots of a primrose into a weak solution of
oxide of iron in vinegar, and suffered them to re-
main in it till the leaves became yellow ; the roots
were then carefully washed in distilled water,
bruised, and boiled in a small quantity of the same
fluid : the decoction of them passed through a filtre
was examined, and found to contain iron ; so that

this metal must have been taken up by the vessels

Ifor pores in the root.
        to these facts are added those connected with

the changes which animal and vegetable substances
undergo by the process of putrefaction, we have all
the data necessary for forming a rational theory,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  399

to guide us In the management and application of

manures.

   Davy has very satisfactorily shown the cases in

which putrefaction or fermentation should be en-

couraged, and avoided. As a general rule, it may

be stated, that when manure consists principally
of matter soluble in water, its fermentation or pu-

trefaction should be prevented as much as possible ;

but on the contrary, when it contains a large pro-
portion of vegetable or animal fibre, such processes

become necessary.

   To prevent manures from decomposing, he re-

commends that they should be preserved dry, de-

fended from the contact of the air, and kept as

cool as possible. Salt and alcohol, he observes, ap-

pear to owe their powers of preserving animal and
vegetable substances to their attraction for water,
by which they prevent its decomposing action, and
likewise to their excluding air. The importance
of this latter circumstance he illustrates by the suc-
cess of M. Appart's method of preserving meat.

   By allowing the fermentation of manure to pro-
ceed beneath the soil, rather than in the farm-yard,

we not only preserve elements which would other-
wise be dissipated, but we obtain several incidental
advantages ; for example, the production of heat,
which is useful in promoting the germination of
the seed. This must be particularly favourable
to the wheat crop, in preserving a genial tempe-
rature beneath the surface late in autumn, and

during winter.
   Again: it is a general principle in chemistry,

that in all cases of decomposition, substances com-

400 THE LIFE OF

bine much more readily at the moment of their

disengagement, than after they have been perfectly

formed. And in fermentation beneath the soil, the

fluid matter produced is applied instantly, even
whilst it is warm, to the organs of the plant, and

consequently is more likely to be efficient than in

manure that has gone through the process, and of

which all the principles have already entered into

new combinations.

He examines with much attention the various

animal and vegetable matters which have been used

as manure, and furnishes the farmer with a num-

ber of practical remarks on their nature and mode

of operation. For these, the reader must refer to

the work itself; for my limits will not allow me

to enter into the consideration of rape-cake malt-

dust linseed-cake  sea-weeds  peat wood-ashes

   -fish bones hair, woollen rags, and feathers

blood, &c. &c. ; to each of which he assigns pecu-

liar qualities and virtues.

   As he regards the due regulation of the fermen-

tative process of the utmost importance, he has

furnished some valuable hints for the conduct of

the farmer upon this occasion. He considers that

a compact marie, or a tenacious clay, offers the best

protection against the air ; and before the dung is
covered over, or, as it were, sealed up, he recom-

Ifmends that it should be dried as much as possible.

    at any time it should heat strongly, he advises

the farmer to turn it over, and thus cool it by-
exposure to the air ; for the practice sometimes

adopted of watering dunghills is inconsistent with

just chemical views. It may cool the dung for a

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  401

short time ; but moisture, it will be remembered, is

a principal agent in all processes of decomposition.

    In cases of the fermentation of dung, there are
simple tests by which the rapidity of the process, and

consequently the injury done, may be discovered.

If, for instance, a thermometer plunged into the mass
does not rise above 100, it may be concluded that
there is not much danger of the escape of aeriform
matter ; but should it exceed this, the dung ought

to be immediately spread abroad.

   When a piece of paper moistened in muriatic acid,

held over the steams arising from a dunghill, gives
dense fumes, it is a certain test that the decomposi-
tion is going too far ; for this indicates that volatile

alkali is disengaged.

   It may be truly said that, under the hand of

Davy, the coldest realities blossomed into poetry :
the concluding passage of this lecture certainly sanc-

Itions such an opinion, and is highly characteristic of

that peculiar genius to which have before alluded.*

A subject less calculated than a heap of manure to

call forth a glowing sentiment, can scarcely be ima-

gin"edT.he doctrine," says he, " of the proper appli-
cation of manures from organized substances, offers
an illustration of an important part of the economy
of nature, and of the happy order in which it is
arranged. The death and decay of animal sub-
stances tend to resolve organized forms into che-

mical constituents ; and the pernicious effluvia dis-

engaged in the process seem to point out the pro-

VOL. I.  * Page 191.
                2D

402 THE LIFE OF

priety of burying them in the soil, where they are
fitted to become the food of vegetables. The fer-
mentation and putrefaction of organized substances

in the free atmosphere are noxious processes ; be-

neath the surface of the ground they are salutary
operations. In this case the food of plants is pre-
pared where it can be used ; and that which would

offend the senses, and injure the health, if exposed,

is converted by gradual processes into forms of
beauty and of usefulness ; the fetid gas is render-
ed a constituent of the aroma of the flower, and

what might be poison, becomes nourishment to

man and animals."

   The SEVENTH LECTURE is devoted to the in-
vestigation of manures of a mineral origin. He
commences the subject by refuting the opinion of

Schrader and Braconnot, that the different earthy
and saline substances found in plants arise from new

arrangements of the elements of air and water, by
the agencies of their living organs.

   In 1801, he made an experiment on the growth
of oats, supplied with a limited quantity of distilled
water, in a soil composed of pure carbonate of lime.
The soil and the water were placed in a vessel of

iron, which was included in a large jar, connected
with the free atmosphere by a tube, so curved as to
prevent the possibility of any dust, or fluid, or solid
matter, from entering into the jar. His object was
to ascertain whether any siliceous earth would be
formed in the process of vegetation ; but the oats

grew very feebly, and began to be yellow before
any flowers formed. The entire plants were burnt,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               403

and their ashes compared with those from an equal
number of grains of oat. Less siliceous earth was

given by the plants than by the grains ; but their
ashes yielded much more carbonate of lime.

Numerous other authorities might be quoted to the

same effect. Jacquin states that the ashes of Glass-

wort (Salsola-Sodd) when it grows in inland situa-
tions, afford the vegetable alkali ; but when on the
sea-shore, the fossile or mineral alkali. Du Hamel

also found, that plants which usually grow on the sea-

shore, made small progress when planted in soils

containing little common salt. The Sunflower,

when growing on lands not containing nitre, does

not afford that substance ; though when watered by
its solution, it yields nitre abundantly. De Saus-

sure made plants grow in solutions of different salts ;

and he ascertained that, in all cases, certain portions

of the salts were absorbed by the plant, and found

unaltered in their organs.

  It may be admitted then as established, that the

mineral principles found in plants are derived from

the soils in which they vegetate. This fact becomes

the foundation of the theory respecting the operation

of mineral manure.
   Davy observes, that " the only substances which

can with propriety be called fossile manures, and
which are found unmixed with the remains of any

Iforganized beings, are certain alkaline earths, or alka-
lies, and their combinations."  he intends to limit

the term to those bodies only which find their way

Iinto the structure of plants, his definition may be

correct ; but am inclined to take a much wider

2D2

404 THE LIFE OF

view of the subject, and to include all those mineral

substances which promote vegetation by modifying
the texture of the soil : but of this hereafter.

   Lime, not only from its importance, but from the
controversies which it has occasioned, ranks first in
the list of mineral manures.

   That disputes concerning the uses of lime and its

carbonate, should have long existed, and be still con-
tinued amongst a class of persons who, whatever may

be their practical knowledge, are not acquainted
with the composition of the substances about which

they differ, is certainly by no means extraordinary.
Davy, therefore, very properly introduces the sub-
ject, by a description of the nature and qualities

of these bodies, and by marking the distinctions

between quick-lime and its carbonate.
   The substance commonly known by the name of

Limestone is a compound of lime and carbonic acid,
associated generally with other earthy bodies, the
nature and proportions of which vary in different
species. " When a limestone does not copiously
effervesce in acids, and is sufficiently hard to scratch
glass, it contains siliceous, and probably aluminous
earth. When it is deep brown or red, or strongly
coloured of any of the shades of brown or yellow, it
contains oxide of iron ; when it is not sufficiently
hard to scratch glass, but effervesces slowly, and
makes the dilute nitric acid in which it effervesces
milky, it contains magnesia ; and when it is black,

and emits a fetid smell if rubbed, it contains coally

or bituminous matter."

   As the agricultural value of limestone is mate-
rially modified by the substances with which it may

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  405

be associated, their analysis becomes an object of

much importance, and the author has accordingly

proposed a simple method of effecting it.
   Before any opinion can be formed of the manner

in which these different ingredients operate, it is
necessary that the action of the pure calcareous ele-

ment as a manure should be thoroughly understood.

   In its caustic state, whether used in powder, or

dissolved in water, lime is injurious to plants.
Davy informs us that he has, in several instances,
killed grass by watering it with lime water ; but in
its combination with carbonic acid, it is an useful

ingredient in soils.
   When newly-burnt lime is exposed to the atmo-

sphere, it soon falls into powder, from uniting with
the moisture of the air ; and the same effect is im-

mediately produced by throwing water upon it,
when it heats violently, and the water disappears :
in this state it is commonly called slacked lime:
chemists have named it the hydrat of lime ; and

when this hydrat becomes a carbonate, by long ex-
posure to the air, its water is in part expelled, and

the carbonic acid takes its place.
   Lime, whether freshly burnt, or slacked, acts

powerfully on moist fibrous vegetable matters, and
forms with them a compost, of which a part is

usually soluble in water. By this operation, it ren-

ders inert vegetable matter active ; and as charcoal

and oxygen (the elements of carbonic acid) abound
in vegetables, it is itself, at the same time, converted
into a carbonate. But limestone simply powdered,

marls, or chalks, do not thus act on vegetable mat-

ter; and hence the operation of quicklime and

406 THE LIFE OF

mild lime depends on principles altogether diffe-

rent. Quicklime acts on any hard vegetable mat-
ter, so as to render it more readily soluble ; the

mild limes, or carbonates, act only by improving the

texture of the soil, or by supplying a due proportion

of calcareous matter : thus almost all soils which do

Inot effervesce with acids, are improved by mild lime
and sand, more than clays.  apprehend that it is

Iupon this principle the application of shelly sand

proves beneficial in Cornwall, although have ascer-

tained that, on some occasions, its value depends
upon its chemical action upon mineral bodies in

the soil.

Soils abounding in soluble vegetable manures are

injured by quicklime, as it tends to decompose their

soluble matters, or to form with them compounds

less soluble than the pure vegetable substance.

With animal manures, it is equally exceptionable,
unless indeed they be too rich, or it becomes neces-
sary to prevent noxious effluvia : for since it decom-
poses them, it destroys their efficacy, and tends to

render the extractive matter insoluble.

   The limestones containing alumina and silex are
less fitted for the purposes of manure than pure

limestones ; but the lime formed from them has no

noxious quality. Such stones are less efficacious,
merely because they furnish a smaller quantity of

quicklime. Those, however, that contain magnesia,

if indiscreetly used, may be very detrimental.
  It had been long known to farmers in the neigh-

bourhood of Doncaster, that lime made from a cer-

tain limestone, when applied to the land, often

injured the crops considerably. Mr. Tennant dis-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  407

covered that this limestone contained magnesia ;
and on mixing some calcined magnesia with soil,
in which he sowed different seeds, he found that

they either died, or very imperfectly vegetated ;
and with great justice and ingenuity, he referred
the bad effects of the peculiar limestone to the
magnesian earth it contained. In prosecuting the
enquiry, Davy however ascertained that there were
cases in which this magnesian lime was used with
good effect, in small quantities, for example, on
rich land : and during his chemical consideration of

the question, he was led to the following satisfac-

tory solution.
   " Magnesia has a much weaker attraction for car-

bonic acid than lime, and will remain in the state

of caustic or calcined magnesia for many months,

though exposed to the air ; and as long as any

caustic lime remains, the magnesia cannot be com-
bined with carbonic acid, for lime instantly attracts

carbonic acid from magnesia. When therefore a

magnesian limestone is burnt, the magnesia is de-

prived of its carbonic acid much sooner than the

lime, and in this state it is a poison to plants. That
more magnesian lime may be used upon rich soils,*

   * These facts have been confirmed by agriculturists, who could
riot possibly have had any favourite theory to support. Dr. Fen-
\vick tells us, (Essays on Calcareous Manures, p. 11. 1 798,) that
in the county of Durham, the farmers always distinguish between

hot and mild limes. They never apply the former to exhausted
lands, or to any soil that has been long under a course of tillage,
unless it be very deep and rich. In peaty soils, and in new, sour,
and wild lands, the hot limes, on the contrary, are preferred to the
mild ones. Dr. Feuwick made some experiments to ascertain the
cause of the differences between these varieties of lime ; and

408 THE LIFE OF
                                                           <r

seems to be owing to the circumstance, that the
decomposition of the manure in them supplies car-
bonic acid, and thus converts it into a mild car-
bonate. Besides being used in the forms of lime
and carbonate of lime, calcareous matter is applied
for the purposes of agriculture in other combina-
tions. The principal body of this kind is gypsum,
or sulphate of lime ; respecting the uses and opera-
tion of which very discordant opinions have been
formed.

   Its beneficial operation has been referred to two
causes, viz. to its power of attracting moisture from
the air, or to its assisting the putrefaction of animal
substances ; but Davy has shown by experiments
that neither of these theories can be supported by

facts.

    The most extraordinary circumstance perhaps con-
nected with the history of this mineral manure, is
the very opposite opinions which have been formed

respecting its value. In this country, although
there are various testimonies in its favour, it has

never been employed with the signal success which
marked its adoption in America, and which was
so palpable and extraordinary as at once to have

Iensured its universal introduction.

      was some years since assured by Mr. Maclure
of Philadelphia, that whenever any doubt or hesita-

though he failed to discover that by analysis which Mr. Tennant
subsequently ascertained, he nevertheless arrived at a just conclu-

sion by simple observation ; and was led to believe, that " what

farmers term hot limes, are such as re-absorb their fixed air more
slowly, and therefore continue longer to exert the peculiar action
of quicklime."

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                   409

tion betrayed itself with respect to its fertilizing
agency, it was only necessary to sprinkle a small

quantity in a meadow, to satisfy the most sceptical ;
and that this was usually done in the form of letters

or characters, which in a short time became so much

more luxuriant than the surrounding grass, as to be

Ivisible at a considerable distance. It is, under-

stand, chiefly applied to grass lands as a top-dressing;
and the American farmers* explain its operation
upon its solubility in water, and its consequent

absorption by the roots of the grass. Davy, in
examining the ashes of sainfoin, clover, and rye-
grass, which had grown in soils manured by gyp-
sum, found considerable quantities of that substance;
and he thinks it probable that it was intimately
connected with their woody fibre. He attempts to
explain the reason why the application of gypsum

is not generally efficacious, by supposing that most

of the cultivated soils may already contain it in

* When this substance was first introduced into America, which

is nearly forty years since, it was imported from the quarries of

Montmartre, and in such request was  that bushel of wheat
            it                       a
was usually given for the same measure of gypsum             now,
                I                               :

                        it,                   it
                                                    is
                                                           it

                                                          I
believe, obtained from Nova Scotia; have not heard that has

been found within the States. It may perhaps serve to convey

some idea of the extent to which has been applied, when state,
                                                             I

that Mr. Maclure assured me that not less than three hundred

vessels are constantly employed in the traffic, and that in Phila-

delphia twenty merchants, at least, are engaged
                                     a;              supplying the
                                                a in

                                                         in
demand for it. Its efficacy appears to be considerably increased

by applying in minute state of division and want of atten-
it

         a

tion to this circumstance may possibly have been one of the causes

which have rendered its advantages less conspicuous          England.

In America, three or four hundred mills, of peculiar construction,

have been erected in different parts for the purpose of grinding it.

410 THE LIFE OF

sufficient quantities for the use of the grasses. 1
strongly suspect, however, that it will be hereafter
discovered to depend upon the nature of the soil in

its hygrornetric relations. From the facts already
recorded, it would appear that it never answers near

the sea, nor in wet lands. In consequence of its

solubility, it is enabled to penetrate and pervade the

whole vegetable structure ; and the experiments of

Davy have proved its presence in the ashes of plants

exposed to its operation, and have rendered it pro-
bable that it enters into union with their woody
fibre, by which the density of their textures will be

Iincreased, and consequently the evaporation from
their leaves diminished ;  am from such consi-

derations induced to think that gypsum does not

act by effecting any chemical change in the soil, but

solely by diminishing the plant's evaporation. This

idea seems to be borne out by the evidence fur-

nished by the different circumstances attending the

operation of this manure : we find, for example,

that succulent vegetables, planted on dry soils, are

those which are principally benefited by its appli-

cation, and that the various grasses so manured

retain their verdure, even in the dryest season and

on the most arid lands ; at the same time, we find

that these crops, especially clover, acquire a pro-

portionate increase in the density of their fibres,

that is to say, that they become much more rank

and stubborn, and often to such a degree does this

take place, that in America, where its effects are

best understood, sheep not uncommonly refuse to

'feed upon them. Upon the same principle we find

that, under circumstances or in situations where the

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            411

evaporation of a plant is provided for by a constant
supply of moisture, the effects of gypsum cease to

be apparent.

Davy hints at a process by which gypsum may

be formed in a soil containing sulphate of iron, by
the action of calcareous manure,* and which was
Ifirst pointed out by Dr. Pearson.
                                    can confirm
Ithis statement by the results of experiments for-

merly made in Cornwall, where soil containing this
salt of iron had been manured by shelly sand.

   In pursuing his enquiry into the efficacy of mi-

neral manure, Davy proceeds to investigate the

efficacy of the fixed alkalies, and observes that their

general tendency is to give solubility to vegetable

matters, and in this way to render carbonaceous and
other substances capable of being taken up by the

tubes in the radical fibres of plants. The vegetable

alkali has likewise* a strong attraction for water, and

even in small quantities may tend to give a due
degree of moisture to the soil, or to other manures.

   He considers that pure salt may act, like gypsum,
phosphate of lime, and the alkalies, by entering into
the composition of the plant. Upon the subject of

salt, however, his remarks are very meagre and un-

satisfactory : at the time he composed his lecture,

the subject had not excited that public attention
which the writings of Mr. Parkes, Sir Thomas

Bernard, and others, have since awakened.

    * Gypsum is readily produced by the admixture of decomposing
pyrites and calcareous matter : in proof of which the Mineralogist
can produce specimens of oyster shells studded with crystals of
selenite from Shotoverj and alum from the aluminous shale at the

Hurlet Mine near Glasgow.

412! THE LIFE OF

   Had our philosopher undertaken the agricultural
survey of Cornwall, his lecture on mineral manure
must have been very considerably extended. He
would have learnt that various rocks reduced to

small fragments, are commonly applied as dressing ;

he would have explained the cause of the fertility
so generally associated with hornblende rocks ; he
would have speculated upon the influence of iron
in giving fruitfulness ; and above all, he would have
taught the agriculturist the scientific use of cal-
careous sand, by pointing out the description of
lands which are most likely to be benefited by its

application.

   The EIGHTH LECTURE concludes the subject of
the chemistry of Agriculture, by establishing the
theory of the operation of burning lands. He con-

siders the process to be useful in rendering the soil

less compact, and less tenacious and retentive of
moisture ; and that, when properly applied, it is
capable of converting a matter that was stiff, damp,
and cold, into one powdery, dry, and warm, and
much more proper as a bed for vegetable life. He

states the great objection made by speculative che-

mists to paring and burning, to be the unavoidable
destruction of vegetable and animal matter, or the
manure of the soil ; but he considers that, in those

cases in which the texture of its earthy ingredients

is permanently improved, there is more than a com-
pensation for so temporary a disadvantage ; and that
in some soils, where there is an excess of inert vege-

table matter, the destruction of it must be beneficial,

and that the carbonaceous matter remaining in the

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.         413

ashes may be more useful to the crop than the vege-

table fibre from which it was produced.
   In this view of the subject it is evident, that all

poor siliceous sands must be injured by the opera-

tion ; "and here," says Davy, "practice is found to
accord with theory. Mr. Arthur Young, in his

Essay on Manures, states, 'that he found burning

injure sand;' and the operation is never performed

by good agriculturists upon siliceous sandy soils,

after they have been once brought into cultivation.

An intelligent farmer in Mount's Bay told me, that

he had pared and burned a small field several years

Iago, which he had not been able to bring again into
good condition.  examined the spot, the grass

was very poor and scanty, and the soil an arid sili-

ceous sand." Irrigation, or watering land, is a prac-

tice, he observes, which at first view appears the

reverse of torrefaction ; and, in general, the opera-

tion of water in nature is to bring earthy substances

into an extreme state of division. But in the arti-

ficial watering of meadows, the beneficial effects

may depend upon many different causes, some che-

mical, some mechanical. It may act as a simple

supply of moisture to the roots, or it may carry into

the soil foreign matter, or diffuse that which exists

in it more equally through its substance.

He concludes with some valuable scientific obser-

vations upon the process of fallowing, by which he

attempts to correct the prejudices which have ex-

isted with regard to its benefits. He points out, on

the other hand, the great advantages of the conver-
tible system of husbandry, by which the whole of

 414 THE LIFE OF

 the manure is employed ; and those parts of it which

are not fitted for one crop, remain as nourishment

for another. These views he illustrates by a refe-
 rence to the course of crops adopted by Mr. Coke,
 in which "the turnip is the first in the order of
, succession ; and this crop is manured with recent

 dung, which immediately affords sufficient soluble
 matter for its nourishment ; and the heat produced

in fermentation assists the germination of the seed
and the growth of the plant. After turnips, barley
with grass seeds is sown ; and the land having been
little exhausted by the turnip crop, affords the so-
luble parts of the decomposing manure to the grain.
 The grasses, rye-grass, and clover remain, which
derive a small part only of their organized matter
from the soil, and probably consume the gypsum in
the manure which would be useless to other crops :
these plants likewise, by their large system of leaves,
absorb a considerable quantity of nourishment from
the atmosphere ; and when ploughed in at the end of
two years, the decay of their roots and leaves affords
manure for the wheat crop; and at this period of
the course, the w^oody fibre of the farm-yard ma-
nure, which contains the phosphate of lime and the
other difficultly soluble parts, is broken down ; and

as soon as the most exhausting crop is taken, recent

manure is again supplied."

   At the end of his system is added an Appendix,
containing " An Account of the results of Experi-

ments on the produce and nutritive qualities of the
Grasses and other plants used as the food of animals ;
instituted by John Duke of Bedford." But as these
experiments do not admit either of abridgement or

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  415

analysis, the reader must refer to the original source

for information.

  I Ishall conclude this long, and, fear, somewhat

tedious review, with the animated appeal so earnestly
addressed by the illustrious author to the philosophi-

"Ical readers of his work.

       trust that the enquiry wr ill be pursued by

others ; and that in proportion as chemical philoso-

phy advances towards perfection, it will afford new

aids to agriculture : there are sufficient motives con-

nected both with pleasure and profit, to encourage
ingenious men to pursue this new path of investiga-

tion. Science cannot long be despised by any per-
sons as the mere speculation of theorists, but must
soon be considered by all ranks of men in its true

point of view, as the refinement of common sense

guided by experience, gradually substituting sound

and   rational principles for vague popular prejudices.
      The soil offers inexhaustible resources, which,
   "

when properly appreciated and employed, must in-

crease our wealth, our population, and our physical

strength.

   " We possess advantages in the use of machinery,
and the division of labour, belonging to no other
nation. And the same energy of character, the
same extent of resources, which have always distin-

guished the people of the British Islands, and made

them excel in arms, commerce, letters, and philoso-

phy, apply with the happiest effects to the improve-
ment of the cultivation of the earth. Nothing is

impossible to labour, aided by ingenuity. The true
objects of the agriculturist are likewise those of the

patriot. Men value most what they have gained

416 THE LIFE OF SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.
with effort; a just confidence in their own powers
results from success ; they love their country better,
because they have seen it improved by their own
talents and industry ; and they identify with their
interests the existence of those institutions which
have afforded them security, independence, and the
multiplied enjoyments of civilized life."

                END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

                                                       LONDON :
                               PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY,

                                                   Dorset Street, Fleet Street.



THE LIFE

                                           OP

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,

                 BART. LLC &c. &c. &c.

                        VOL. II.

                      LONDON :

miNTED BY SAMUEL BENTI.EY,
         Dortel Street, Flfft Sum.


1

          THE LIFE

                                                 OF

IR HUMPHRY DAVY,

                                BART. LL.D.
   PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, FOREIGN ASSOCIATE

              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE,

                                                &c. tec. tic.

                                                BY

 >HN AYRTON PARIS, M.D. Cantab. F.RS. &c.

           FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS.

                              IN TWO VOLUMES.

                         VOL. II.

                      LONDON:
 HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY,

                      NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

                            M DCCC XXXI.


             CONTENTS.

             CHAPTER X.

    Mr. Faraday's introduction to Sir H. Davy.-- A renewed corre
spondence on the subject of the Gunpowder Manufactory. -- Davy
obtains permission from Napoleon to visit the Continent. -- He em

barks in a Cartel from Plymouth. --Is arrested at Morlaix. --Ar
rives at Paris. -- Visits the Louvre. -- His extraordinary conduct
upon that occasion. -- Inspects the Colossal Elephant, and is intro
duced to M. Alavair, its architect. --The discovery of the dungeons
of the Bastile. -- Davy's interesting letter to M. Alavair. -- He attends

a meeting of the Institute. -- Is visited by all the principal savans
of Paris. --The adventure which befell Lady Davy in the Thuil-
leries' Garden.-- Anniversary dinner of the Philomatic Society. --
The junior Chemists of France invite Davy to a splendid entertain

ment.--How far Davy is entitled to be considered the discoverer
of the true nature of Iodine. -- Napoleon's unlucky experiment

with the Voltaic battery. -- Davy is presented to the Empress Jose

phine. --An account of the Court ceremony at Malmaison. -- Re
marks on the conduct of Davy during his visit to Paris. -- He quits

the capital of France, and proceeds by way of Lyons, to Montpel-

....lier.--Is assisted in experiments on sea-weed by M. Berard. --

Crosses the Alps. -- Arrives at Genoa. -- Institutes experiments on
the Torpedo. --Visits Florence, and accomplishes the combustion
of the diamond, by the great lens in the cabinet of Natural His
tory. -- Experiments on Iodine. -- He examines the colours used by
the Ancients. -- Visits all the celebrated Philosophers of Italy and
Switzerland, with whom he works in their laboratories. --Returns
to England.                                                              1

             752

vi CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XI.

Collieries of the North of England. -- Fire-damp. -- The dreadful
explosion at Felling Colliery described. --Letters
of Bristol to the Author.--A Society is established  from the Bishop
                                                     at Bishop- Wear-
mouth for preventing accidents in coal mines. --Various projects
for ensuring the miner's safety--The Reverend Dr. Gray, the pre
sent Bishop of Bristol, addresses a letter to Sir H. Davy, and
invites his attention to the subject. -- Sir H. Davy's reply. -- Farther

Correspondence upon the possibility of devising means of security.
--Sir H. Davy proposes four different kinds of lamp for the pur
pose. --The Safe-lamp -- The Blowing-lamp -- The Piston-lamp --
The Charcoal-lamp. -- His investigation of the properties of fire

damp leads to the discovery of a new principle of safety His

views developed in a paper read before the Royal Society on the

9th of November 1815. --The first Safety-lamp. --Safety-tubes su
perseded by Safety-canals. -- Flame Sieves. --Wire-gauze lamp. --

The phenomenon of slow combustion, and its curious application.
--The invention of the Safety-lamp claimed by a Mr. Stephenson.

-- A deputation of Coal-owners wait upon Sir H. Davy, in order to

express to him the thanks of the Proprietors for his discovery .

Mr. Buddle announces to Dr. Gray (now     Bishop   of Bristol)   the in
tention of the Coal-trade to present him  with a  service of
                                                                plate. --

The Resolutions are opposed, and the claims of Stephenson urged,

by Mr. W. Brandling. --A dinner is given to Sir Humphry, at which

the plate is presented to him.--The President and Council of the

Royal Society protest against the claims     still urged by Mr. Ste
                                             answer to several queries
phenson's friends. --Mr. Buddle's letter in
submitted to him by the Author. -- Davy's Researches on Flame. --
He receives from the Royal Society the Rumford Medals. --Is
created a Baronet. -- Some observations on the apathy of the State
in rewarding scientific merit. -- The Geological Society of Cornwall

receives the patronage and suppoit of Sir Humphry    . 58

                              CHAPTER XII.

   Sir Humphry Davy suggests a chemical method for unrolling
the ancient Papyri. -- He is encouraged by the Government to
proceed to Naples for that purpose. -- He embarks at Dover. -- His

                         CONTENTS.                          vii

experiments on the Rhine, the Danube, the Raab, the Save, the

Ironzo, the Po, and the Tiber, in order to explain the formation of
mists on rivers and lakes.-- His arrival and reception at Naples. --
He visits the excavations at Herculaneum. -- He concludes that it

was overwhelmed by sand   and ashes,  but  had never been exposed
                         commences    his  attempt of unrolling the
to burning matter. --He
Papyri. -- His failure. -- He complains of the persons at the head of
the department in the Museum. -- He analyses the waters of the
Baths of Lucca. -- His return to England. -- Death of Sir Joseph
Banks. -- He is elected President of the Royal Society. --Some
remarks on that event. -- He visits Penzance. --Is honoured by a
public dinner. --Electro-magnetic discoveries of Oersted extended
hy Davy. -- He examines Electrical Phenomena in vacuo. -- The
results of his experiments questioned. -- He enquires into the state
of the water, and aeriform matter in the cavities of crystals. --

The interesting results of his enquiry confirm the views of the

Plutonists       .       ..           ...                   160

                         CHAPTER XIII.

The Liquefaction of Chlorine Gas first effected by Mr. Faraday,
                         Author. -- Sir H. Davy continues
and witnessed    by the  on the application of Liquefiable  the inves
                 paper                                       Gases as
tigation. --His
mechanical agents. -- Other probable uses of these bodies. -- He

proposes several methods to prevent the fumes which arise from

Smelting-furnaces. --Importance of the subject. His Letters to
Mr. Vivian. --The Government solicit the advice of the Royal So

ciety on the subject of protecting the Copper Sheathing of Ships

from the action of sea-water. --Sir H. Davy charges himself with
this enquiry. --He proposes a plan of protection founded on Vol
taic principles His numerous experiments. -- He embarks on board

the Comet steam-vessel bound to Heligoland, in order to try his

plan on a vessel in motion. --He arrives at Mandal, lands, and
fishes in the lakes. --The Protectors washed away. -- He teaches
the inhabitants of Christiansand to crimp fish.-- He remains a few
days at Arendal. --A Norwegian dinner. --The Protectors are ex
amined and weighed.-- Results of the experiment. -- The steam-
vessel proceeds up the Glommen. -- He visits the great waterfall. --
Passes into Sweden. -- Has an interview with the Crown Prince of

Denmark, and afterwards with Prince Christian at Copenhagen. --

viii CONTENTS.

He visits Professor Oersted. -- He proceeds to Bremen to see Dr. 01-
bers.-- Returns to England. -- His third paper read before the Royal

Society. --Voltaic influence of patches of rust. --A small quantity
of fluid sufficient to complete the circuit. -- He receives from the

Royal Society the Royal Medal .-- The Progress of Voltaic disco
very reviewed.-- The principle is of extensive application. -- The
Author's researches into the cause of the solution of Lead in spring

water. --An account of the numerous trials of Protectors -- Failure

of the plan.-- Report of the French on the state of the protected
frigate, La Constance. -- Dr. Revere's new plan of Protection 208

              CHAPTER XIV.

--The failure of the Ship protectors a source of great vexation to
Davy. -- His Letters to Mr. Poole        He becomes unwell. -- He

publishes his Discourses before the Royal   Society. -- Critical Re

marks and Quotations. -- He goes abroad    in search of health. --
His Letter to Mr. Poole from Ravenna. --He resigns the Presidency
of the Royal Society. -- Mr. Gilbert elected pro tempore. -- Davy
returns to England, and visits his friend Mr. Poole. --Salmonia, or
Days of Fly-fishing. -- An Analysis of the Work, with various

extracts to illustrate its character  .    .  .  283

              CHAPTER XV.

   Sir H. Davy's Paper on the Phenomena of Volcanoes. -- His
experiments on Vesuvius. --Theory of Volcanic action. -- His re
ception abroad. -- Anecdotes. -- His last Letter to Mr. Poole from
Rome. -- His paper on the Electricity of the Torpedo. --Consolations
in Travel, or the Last Days of a Philosopher. -- Analysis of the
work. -- Reflections suggested by its style and composition. -- Davy
and Wollaston compared. -- His last illness.-- Arrival at Geneva. --

His Death  .                                  . 341

A General Review of the History of Chemical Science,
  and of the Revolutions produced in its Doctrines by
  the Discoveries of Sir Humphry Davy . . 415

         THE LIFE

                                                 OP

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,

                          BART. &c. &c.

          CHAPTER X.

Mr. Faraday's introduction to Sir H. Davy. -- A renewed corre
  spondence on the subject of the Gunpowder Manufactory. --

Davy obtains permission from Napoleon to visit the Continent.

--He embarks in a Cartel from Plymouth. -- Is arrested at Mor-
laix. -- Arrives at Paris. -- Visits the Louvre. -- His extraordinary

conduct upon that occasion.-- Inspects the Colossal Elephant,

and is introduced to M. Alavair, its architect. --The discovery of
the dungeons of the Bastile. -- Davy's interesting letter to M.
Alavair. --He attends a meeting of the Institute. --Is visited by
all the principal savans of Paris. --The adventure which befell
Lady Davy in the Thuilleries' Garden. --Anniversary dinner of
the Philomatic Society. -- The junior Chemists of France invite
Davy to a splendid entertainment. --How far Davy is entitled to
be considered the discoverer of the true nature of Iodine. -- Na

poleon's unlucky experiment with the Voltaic battery. -- Davy is
presented to the Empress Josephine. -- An account of the Court
ceremony at Malmaison. -- Remarks on the conduct of Davy
during his visit to Paris. -- He quits the capital of France, and

proceeds, by way of Lyons, to Montpellier  Is assisted in ex
periments on sea-weed by M. Berard. -- Crosses the Alps. --
Arrives at Genoa.-- Institutes experiments on the Torpedo. --

Visits Florence, and accomplishes the combustion of the dia
mond, by the great lens in the cabinet of Natural History. --

Experiments on Iodine. -- He examines the colours used by the

VOL. II.  B

2 THE LIFE OF

   Ancients Visits all the celebrated Philosophers of Italy and
   Switzerland, with whom he works in their laboratories. -- Re

    turns to England.

  It is said of Bergman, that he considered the

greatest of his discoveries to have been the dis
covery of Scheele.* Amongst the numerous ser
vices conferred upon Science by Sir Humphry
Davy, we must not pass unnoticed that kind and
generous patronage which first raised Mr. Faraday
from obscurity, and gave to the chemical world a
philosopher capable of pursuing that brilliant path
of enquiry which the genius of his master had so

successfully explored.

   The circumstances which first led Mr. Faraday
to the study of chemistry, and by which he be
came connected with the Royal Institution, were
communicated to me, by himself, in the follow

ing letter.

TO 'J. A. PARIS, M. D.

MY DEAR SIR,  Royal Institution, Dec. 23, 1829.

   You asked me to give you an account of my

Ifirst introduction to Sir H. Davy, which am very
Ihappy to do, as think the circumstances will bear

testimony to his goodness of heart.

  IIWhen was a bookseller's apprentice, was very

fond of experiment, and very averse to trade. It
happened that a gentleman, a member of the Royal
IInstitution, took me to hear some of Sir H. Davy's
last lectures in Albemarle Street.  took notes, and

afterwards wrote them out more fairly in a quarto

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         3

  IMy desire to escape from trade, which thought

Ivicious and selfish, and to enter into the service of

Science, which imagined made its pursuers ami

able and liberal, induced me at last to take the bold

and simple step of writing to Sir H. Davy, express

ing my wishes, and a hope that, if an opportunity

I Icame in his way, he would favour my views ; at the

same time sent the notes had taken at his

lectures.

  IThe answer, which makes all the point of my

communication, send you in the original, request
ing you to take great care of it, and to let me

Ihave it back, for you may imagine how much

value it.

   You will observe that this took place at the end
of the year 1812, and early in 1813 he requested to

see me, and told me of the situation of assistant in
the Laboratory of the Royal Institution, then just

vacant.

   At the same time that he thus gratified my de

Isires as to scientific employment, he still advised me

not to give up the prospects had before me, tell

ing me that Science was a harsh mistress ; and, in

a pecuniary point of view, but poorly rewarding
those who devoted themselves to her service. He

smiled at my notion of the superior moral feelings
of philosophic men, and said he would leave me to

the experience of a few years to set me right on that

Imatter.                              went to the

   Finally, through his good efforts
Royal Institution early in March of 1813, as assist
ant in the Laboratory ; and in October of the same

           B2

4 THE LIFE OF

Iexperiments and in writing.  returned with him

in April 1815, resumed my station in the Royal

Institution, and have, as you know, ever since

remained there.

           I am, dear Sir, very truly yours,

                                               M. Faraday.

  The following is a note of Sir H. Davy, alluded

to in Mr. Faraday's letter :

        TO MR. FARADAY.

I SIB^                        December 24, 1812.

am far from displeased with the proof you have

given me of your confidence, and which displays
Igreat zeal, power of memory, and attention.
                                                            am

Iobliged to go out of town, and shall not be settled

in town till the end of January : will then see

you at any time you wish.

  It would gratify me to be of any service to you.
I wish it may be in my power.

        I am, Sir, your obedient humble servant,

                                                       H. Davy.

  I must now recall the reader's attention to the

affair of the gunpowder manufactory, to which some

allusion has been already made. It is far from my

wish to intrude upon the public any account of a

Iprivate transaction ; but the circumstances to which

  Imust refer are already well known, and believe,

moreover, that they have been the subject of misre

Ipresentation.

   The letters shall introduce appear to me highly

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          5

which they repel the bare suspicion of his prosti
tuting science to the acquisition of wealth, to deve-

lope a feature in his character too important to be
omitted in a memoir of his life.

   From the following letter, it would appear that

Davy's alarms, with respect to his responsibilities,
were first awakened by a sight of the labels, in

which his name was introduced.*

TO JOHN GEORGE CHILDREN, ESQ.

MY DEAR CHILDREN,  Rokeby, July -- 1813.
I am very sorry you did not come to Cobham, as

the party was very pleasant.

   Your apparatus was magnificent, worthy an Im

perial Institute : there were some swine however for

the pearls ; at least, there was one,--you cannot

Isuppose mean any other than
  I have been much disturbed and vexed by en

Iquiries respecting the price of my gunpowder, which

from the labels find is supposed to be sold by me.

These labels must be altered, so as to put in a clear

Ipoint my relations to the manufacture ; and it must

be understood by the public that have given my

gratuitous assistance and advice only.
I have written to Mr. Burton by post, giving two
Iforms.  shall do you more good if these are adopt
I Ied than can now ; and wish them to be adopted

  * I am here bound to state, from a careful examination of all

the original documents, that his name was introduced in the very

words which he suggested, and which I have at this moment before
me in his own handwriting :--so differently, however, does the same

sentence strike the eye in print and in manuscript, that an au

6 THE LIFE OF

Ispeedily, as it may otherwise get abroad that have

nothing to do with the powder, and that my name

is used in a manner which does not meet my appro

bation.

  IIn the labels in the windows, it should not be

under my directions, for this implies that am a

bsuep--er"inRteanmdehnut rsint  the manufactory ; but it should
                                 Gunpowder, manufactured by

Messrs. B. C. and Co. In the composition of this

powder, the proprietors have been assisted by the

advice and assistance of Sir H. Davy."

  A fair statement will do the manufacture good.

IMisapprehension will do it much harm.
      am now at Rokeby ; we shall be in a few days
at Braham Castle, Lord Mackenzie's, near Ding
wall, where we shall stay for a week. After that

we shall go to the Marquis of Stafford's, Dun-

robin, near Goldspie.

          I am, my dear Children,

         Very truly and affectionately yours,
                                              H. Davy.

                                TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR CHILDREN,                             Edinburgh, July 22.
II wrote to you from Rokeby. I expressed my
feelings respecting the gunpowder.            have been in

extreme harass and anxiety from the idea of the use

Iof my name, without the proper explanation, and
Icertainly expected that no use would have been
made of it without my sanction.               never saw the
I Ilabel for the canister till it came to me upon one

of them, and immediately expressed that was

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                 7

  I told Mr. Burton expressly, that in all cases in

which my name was used it must be in my own

Iway. He is now at the head of your firm ; but it

is to you, and not to him, that have given, and

shall give my assistance.

  IEvery feeling of friendship and affection prompts

my wishes to be useful to you ; have not the same

relations to Mr. Burton.

  I am very sorry to give you any trouble on this
Ibusiness, but am sure you cannot wish me to re

Imain in a state of anxiety ; and all the friends with

whom have consulted think it absolutely neces

sary for my reputation, that, when my name is used,

a clear statement should be given of the true nature

Iof the connexion.
      think it will be more useful to you, and in

crease your influence and power in the partnership,

iyfoumoynalyss--istiannctehisiswsatya:te"dRaasmghivuernsttoGyuonup, oawndd etro,

manufactured by Messrs. Burton, Children, and Co.

after an improved process, founded upon experiments

J.and investigations made by Sir H. Davy, and commu

nicated by him to Mr. G. Children, under whose

immediate superintendence the gunpowder is made."

  I have fully made up my mind on this matter :

Iand if you approve of the above form, will state it

to be the only one to which I will consent.

  If the gunpowder is called Sir H. Davy's powder,
it must be stated in all cases where my name is used,

Ithat it is so called in honour of my discoveries in

chemistry, and because have given my gratuitous

assistance in making the experiments and investi

8 THE LIFE OF

I have resolved to make no profit of any thing
Iconnected with science.  devote my life to the
Ipublic in future, and must have it clearly under
Istood, that have no views of profit in any thing
I Ido. am, my dear Children,

Very affectionately yours,
                              H. Davy.

   In subsequent letters, which it is not necessary
to publish, Davy dwells upon the necessity of his

engagements as a partner being legally cancelled,
as he cannot endure the idea of his philosophical
repose and usefulness being disturbed by the cares
of business, or the trouble of litigation.

  It is scarcely necessary to add, that all the parties

concerned in this transaction most readily and cheer

fully met Davy's wishes, all erroneous impressions

were effaced, and the affair was adjusted amicably

and satisfactorily ; and he prepared to quit England
with a mind relieved from all the fears and anxieties

which had so unfortunately oppressed it.

   After the Emperor of the French had sternly re
fused his passport to several of the most illustrious
noblemen of England, it was scarcely to be ex
pected that Sir H. Davy would have been allowed

to travel through France, in order to visit the ex

tinct volcanoes in Auvergne, and afterwards to

examine that which was in a state of activity at

Naples.

   No sooner, however, had the discovery of the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  9T

probable bearings upon the philosophy of volcanic

action, been represented by the Imperial Institute
to Napoleon, than, with a liberality worthy of the
liberator of Dolomieu, and consistent with his well-
known patronage of science, he immediately and

unconditionally extended the required indulgence.

   In consequence of this permission, Sir Humphry
and Lady Davy, the former accompanied by Mr.

Faraday as secretary and chemical assistant, and
the latter by her own waiting-maid, quitted Lon
don on the 13th of October 1813, and proceeded to

Plymouth ; at which port they immediately em
barked in a cartel for Morlaix in Brittany.

   On landing in France, they were instantly ar
rested by the local authorities of the town, who very
reasonably questioned the authenticity of their pass
ports, believing it impossible that a party of Eng
lish should, under any circumstances, have obtained
permission to travel over the Continent, at a time

when the only English in France were detained as

prisoners. They were accordingly compelled to re
main during a period of six or seven days at the
town of Morlaix, until the necessary instructions
could be received from Paris. As soon, however,

as a satisfactory answer was returned, they were set

at liberty ; and they reached the French capital on
the evening of the 27th of the same month.

   Shortly after his arrival, Davy called upon his old
friend and associate Mr. Underwood, who, although
one of the detenus, had during the whole war en
joyed the indulgence of residing in the capital.

   The expected arrival of Davy had been a subject

10 THE LIFE OF

than a month. Amongst those who were loudest

in his praises, was M. Ampere, who had for several

years frequently expressed his opinion that Davy

was the greatest chemist that had ever appeared.

IWhether this flattering circumstance had been com

municated to the English philosopher have no
means of ascertaining ; but Mr. Underwood informs

me that the very first wish that Davy expressed

was to be introduced to this gentleman, whom he

considered as the only chemist in Paris who had

duly appreciated the value of his discoveries ; an

opinion which he afterwards took no care to con

ceal, and which occasioned amongst the savans much

surprise, and some dissatisfaction. M. Ampere, at

the time of Davy's arrival, was spending the sum

mer at a place a few miles from Paris, in conse

quence of which the introduction so much desired

was necessarily delayed.

   On the 30th he was conducted by Mr. Under

wood to the Louvre. The English philosopher

walked with a rapid step along the gallery, and,

to the great astonishment and mortification of his

friend and cicerone, did not direct his attention to

a single painting ;  the only exclamation of surprise
that escaped him
                     was -- "What an extraordinary
collection of fine frames !"-- On arriving opposite to
Raphael's picture of the Transfiguration, Mr. Under

wood could no longer suppress his surprise, and in

a tone of enthusiasm he directed the attention of

the philosopher to that most sublime production of

art, and the chef d'ceuvre of the collection. Davy's

Ireply was as laconic as it was chilling--" Indeed,

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                  11

as if he were desirous of escaping from any critical

remarks upon its excellencies.

They afterwards descended to view the statues

in the lower apartments: here he displayed the

same frigid indifference towards the higher works
Aof art.
          spectator of the scene might have well

imagined that some mighty spell was in operation,

by which the order of nature had been reversed :--

while the marble glowed with more than human

passion, the living man was colder than stone ! The
apathy, the total want of feeling he betrayed on

having his attention directed to the Apollo Belvi-

dere, the Laocoon, and the Venus de Medicis, was

as inexplicable as it was provoking ; but an excla

mation of the most vivid surprise escaped him at

the sight of an Antinous, treated in the Egyptian
sptoywlee,rs,a"ndsaidschuelp, t"urwehdatina  Alabaster.* -- " Gracious
                                             beautiful stalactite !"
What a strange --what a discordant anomaly in

the construction of the human mind do these anec

dotes unfold! We have here presented to us a

philosopher, who, with the glowing fancy of a poet,

is insensible to the divine beauties of the sister arts !
Let the metaphysician, if he can, unravel the mys

tery, -- the biographer has only to observe that the

Muses could never have danced in chorus at his

birth.

On the following morning, Mr. Underwood ac

companied him to the Jardin des Plantes, and pre
sented him to the venerable Vauquelin, who was the

first scientific man he had seen in Paris. On their

* The celebrated Italian antiquary Visconti has so denomi

                              THE LIFE OF

return they inspected the colossal Elephant which
was intended to form a part of the fountain then
erecting on the site of the Bastile. Davy appeared
to be more delighted with this stupendous work than
with any object he saw in Paris : to its architect,

M. Alavair, he formed an immediate attachment.

It has been observed that, during his residence in

this city, his likes and dislikes to particular persons
were violent, and that they were, apparently, not
directed by any principle, but were the effect of

sudden impulse.

   In the course of removing the foundations, and
in digging the canal, the subterranean dungeons of

the Bastile were discovered; they were eight in

number, and were called Les Oubliettes. As they
were under the level of the ditch of the fortress,

any attempt to escape from them by piercing the
wall, must have inevitably drowned the unhappy
prisoner together with all those who inhabited the
contiguous cells ; one of which was discovered with
the entrance walled up. Upon demolishing this
wall there appeared the skeleton of the last wretched

person who had been thus entombed. In all these

discoveries Davy took the warmest interest.

  IUpon the construction of the Elephant, he wrote

a letter to M. Alavair, to which am desirous of

directing the attention of my scientific readers. It

derives its peculiar interest from the opinion which
he at that period entertained upon the subject of
the excitement of Voltaic action by the contact of

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              13

            TO M. ANTOINE ALAVAIR.

SIR,                           November 1813.
It Iwill give me much pleasure if can repay

your civility to me by offering any hints that may
be useful in the execution of the magnificent work

constructing under your directions.
   Ten parts of copper to one of tin is an excellent

Icomposition for a work upon a great scale, nor do

believe any proportions can be better.

   There is no fear of any decay in the armatures, if

they can be preserved from the contact of moisture ;

but if exposed to air and moisture, the presence of

the bronze will materially assist their decay. Wher

ever the iron is exposed to air, it should, if possible,

be covered with a thin layer of bronze. When the

iron touches the foundation of lead, it should in

like manner be covered either by lead or bronze.

A contact between metals has no effect of corrosion,

unless a Voltaic circle is formed with moisture, and

then the most oxidable metal corrodes; and iron

corrodes rapidly both with lead and bronze.
   The cement which will probably be found the

most durable will be lime, fine sand, and scoria of

iron. The materials should be very fine and inti

mately mixed. The ancients always made their

Icements for great works some months before they
were used.  have the honour to be, Sir, with

much consideration,

                   Your obedient humble servant,
                                                 H. Davy.

Davy took up his abode at the Hotel des Princes,

14 THE LIFE OF

Paris hastened to pay their respects ; which they
did with an alacrity and cheerfulness equalled only
by the courtesy of manner with which they ex
pressed their congratulations.

   On the 2nd of November, Davy attended the
First Class of the Institute, and was placed on the
right hand of the President, who on taking the
chair announced to the meeting that it was honoured
by the presence of " Le Chevalier Davy."

   While Davy was at the meeting of the Institute,
a curious adventure occurred to Lady Davy, the
relation of which, by showing the state of surveil
lance in which the citizens of Paris were held at

that period, will enable us to appreciate the extent
of the obligation conferred upon Sir Humphry by

the Emperor.
   Her Ladyship, attended by her maid, had walk

ed into the Thuilleries' Garden. She wore a very
small hat, of a simple cockle-shell form, such as was

fashionable at that time in London ; while the Pa
risian ladies wore bonnets of most voluminous di

mensions. It happened to be a saint's day, on

which, the shops being closed, the citizens repaired
in crowds to the garden. On seeing the diminu
tive bonnet of Lady Davy, the Parisians felt little
less surprise than did the inhabitants of Brobdignag
on beholding the hat of Gulliver; and a crowd of

persons soon assembled around the unknown exotic;
in consequence of which, one of the inspectors of
the garden immediately presented himself, and in
formed her Ladyship that no cause of ' rassemble-

ment' could be suffered, and therefore requested her

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  15

whom she appealed, replied, that, however much

they might regret the circumstance, they were

unable to afford her any redress, as the order was

peremptory. She then requested that they would
conduct her to her carriage ; an officer immediately
offered his arm, but the crowd had by this time so
greatly increased, that it became necessary to send
for a corporal's guard ; and the party quitted the

garden, surrounded by fixed bayonets.
   November 3rd, Humboldt and Gay-Lussac paid

their first visit of compliment to Davy.
   5th. -- M. Ampere, who came to Paris expressly

for the occasion, was introduced to Davy by Mr.
Underwood, and the two philosophers appeared
equally delighted with each other. Some years
afterwards, however, this feeling of friendly regard,
on the part of Davy, was turned into one of bitter
aversion, in consequence, as it has been supposed,
of certain perfidious insinuations, by which some of
the savans, instigated by feelings of jealousy, had
contrived to prejudice his mind ; and which even
led him to exert all his efforts to oppose the elec
tion of Ampere as a foreign member of the Royal

Society.

   After Ampere's visit, Mr. Underwood accom
panied Sir H. and his lady to the Imperial Library
in the Rue Richelieu, and afterwards to the Cathe
dral of Notre Dame, where they inspected the crown
and imperial regalia. The splendour of the corona
 tion mantle of Napoleon may be imagined, when

it is stated that its weight exceeded eighty pounds,
and that it was lined with the skins of six thousand

 ermines.

16 THE LIFE OF

6th. -- They visited the Museum of French Mo

numents, in the Rue des Petits Augustines, which

contained the tombs and sculptured ornaments pre

served from the churches that were demolished

during the Revolution. This interesting collection,

shortly after the restoration of the Bourbons, was

dispersed. It is a singular fact, that Davy ex

pressed more admiration at this inferior exhibition
of art, than he did at that of the Greek and Roman

statues in the Museum of the Louvre. Whether

his taste had been vitiated by the inspection of less

Iperfect models in his earlier days, is a question
which  shall leave more competent judges to

decide.

   10th. -- They dined with Count Rumford at

Auteuil, who showed his laboratory to Davy : this

was exactly eight months before the poor broken

hearted Count sank into the grave, the victim of
domestic torment, and of the persecutions of the

French savans, instigated by his wife, the widow of

the celebrated Lavoisier.

   13th. --The anniversary dinner of the Philomatic

Society took place on this day, at a restaurateur's

in the Rue St. Honore" ; M. Dumeril in the chair.
Although it was very unusual to invite any stranger
upon this occasion, Sir H. Davy and his English

friend were requested to favour the company by

their presence. Thirty-three members were in at

tendance, amongst whom were Ampere, Brogniart,

Cuvier, Chevreuil, Dulong, Gay-Lussac, Humboldt,

Thenard, &c.

  At this dinner various complimentary toasts were

       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             17

for which Davy having returned thanks, gave the
Imperial Institute. The Linnsean Society of Lon

don, and the Royal Society of Berlin, were given in

succession. But the circumstance which evinced

the greatest feeling and delicacy towards their Eng

lish guest, was the company's declining to drink the

health of the Emperor. It placed their personal

safety even in some jeopardy ; and not a little ap

prehension was afterwards felt as to how far Napo

leon might resent such a mark of disrespect, for

seven-eighths of the members present were place

men.

   November 17th. -- Mr. Underwood states that on

this   day he met     Humboldt at     dinner at Davy's
hotel  ; and he adds                 know whether you
                      -- " I do not

are aware that Sir Humphry had a superstitious dis

like at seeing a knife and fork placed crosswise on a

Iplate at dinner, or upon any other occasion ; but

can assure you that such was the fact ; and when it
occurred in the company of his intimate friends, he

always requested that they might be displaced ;

whenever this could not be done, he was evidently

Ivery uncomfortable."*

  At about this period, but am unable to ascer

tain the particular day, the junior Chemists, with

Thenard as their leader, gave Davy a sumptuous

dinner at one of the most celebrated restaurateurs in

  I I* repeat this as received it : from my own personal knowledge
I can neither confirm nor refute it ; although I am inclined to be

lieve that Davy was tinged with a degree of superstitious feeling, or a

certain undefined species of credulity, which shelters itself under

the acknowledged inadequacy of human reason to connect causes

 18 THE LIFE OF

 Paris. The following persons formed a committee
for that purpose: Gay-Lussac, Thenard, Dulong,
Chevreul, Laugier, Robiquet, and Clement. As it
was by the chemists only that this dinner was given,
neither Arago nor Ampere was included ; but Ber-
thollet, Chaptal, and Vauquelin were invited.

   On the morning of the 23rd of November,* M.
Ampere called upon Davy, and placed in his hands
a small portion of a substance which he had received
from M. Clement ; and, although it had been in the
possession of the French chemists for more than
twelve months, so entirely ignorant were they of its
true nature and composition, that it was constantly

spoken of amongst themselves as X, the unknown

body.

   How far the suggestions of Davy led to the dis
covery of the chemical nature of this interesting

substance, which has been since distinguished by
the name of Iodine, is a question which has given

rise to much discussion on the Continent. It has

been moreover questioned, how far the love of sci
ence, and the fervour of emulation, can justify the
interference which Davy is said to have displayed
upon the occasion. He is accused of having un
fairly taken the subject out of the hands of those
who were engaged in its investigation, and to have
anticipated their results.

  As his biographer, I feel that it is not only due

to the character of Davy, but essential to the his
tory of Science, that these questions should be im-

   * The date of this event is important; and Mr. Faraday, in re

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                              19

Ipartially examined ; and have spared no pains in
collecting facts for their elucidation. Mr. Under
wood, who was     in the constant
with the parties   concerned in                              habit of associating
                                                           the enquiry, has fur
nished me with some important particulars, and his
testimony is fortified by published documents.
   The substance under dispute was accidentally dis

covered by M. Courtois, a manufacturer of saltpetre
at Paris, but kept secret by him for several years ;
at length, however, he communicated it to M.
Clement, who made several experiments on
                                                           butit

                                                                it,

                                                                         a
without any favourable result. On the 23rd of
August 1813, Clement exhibited to Mr. Under
wood the beautiful experiment of raising into
violet-coloured vapour, and that gentleman assures
me that this was the only peculiar property which
Ahad at that time been recognised as distinguishing

it. few days previous to this event, M. Ampere
had received specimen of the substance, which he
a

                    it
had carefully folded up in paper, and deposited in

his pocket, but on arriving at home, and opening
the packet, he was surprised to find that his treasure

had vanished. Clement, however, furnished him
with another supply, and
                                                           was this parcel that
                                                           "ohf eDtaovldy;maend
Ampere transferred into the hands                          a
" for which," says Mr. Underwood,

few days ago, that Thenard and Gay-Lussac were
extremely angry with him."

The first opinion which the French chemists en

tertained respecting the nature of Iodine, was that

was either compound of muriatic acid, or of
it
                     it a
                                         c

                                                        2
chlorine, since formed with silver what appeared

20 THE LIFE OF

Davy at once observed that the substance so pro
duced blackened too quickly in the sun to justify
that opinion. He, however, determined to submit
it to a more rigorous examination ; and during the
latter part of November he worked upon it at his
hotel with his own apparatus, and on the 3rd of
December in the laboratory of M. Chevreul, at the
Jardin des Plantes, with whom, it may be stated in

passing, he perhaps formed a stricter intimacy than
with any other chemist during his sojourn in Paris.
Chevreul, however, be it known, was a brother of

Ithe angle ; and understand that he still preserves,

as sacred trophies, some artificial flies with which
Davy had supplied him.

   Having pointed out the channel through which
Iodine first fell into the hands of Davy, let us pur
sue its history. The first public notice of its exist

ence was read by Clement at the Institute, on the

29th of November 1813. At the meeting of the

6th of December, Gay-Lussac, who had only re

ceived some ' X' a few days previous to this date,

presented a short note, in which he gave the name
of lode to the body, and threw out a hint as to its
great analogy to chlorine, while he stated that two
hypotheses might be formed as to its nature, that it

might be considered as a simple substance, or as a

compound of oxygen. On the 13th of the same
month, a letter addressed to M. le Chevalier Cuvier,
and dated December 11th, was read from Davy to
the Institute, in which he offered a general view of
its chemical nature and relations ;* and on the 20th

    See Annates de Chimie, tome 88, p. 322. It appears from Mr.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           21

of January 1814, he communicated to the Royal So
ciety of London, a long and
Paris, December 10, 1813,    aenladboreantteitlpeadp, er",  dated
                                                            Some

Experiments and Observations on a new Substance,

which becomes a violet-coloured gas by Heat." In

this paper, while the author assigned to Gay-Lussac

all the credit to which his communication of the 6th

of December may be supposed to entitle him, he

evidently felt that some explanation was due to the

chemical world for his having pursued the enquiry.

" M. Gay-Lussac," he observes, " is still engaged in

experiments on this subject, and from his activity

and great sagacity, a complete chemical history of it
may be anticipated. But as the mode of procuring

the substance is now known to the chemical world

in general, and as the combinations and agencies of it
offer an extensive field for enquiry, and will proba
bly occupy the attention of many persons ; and as
the investigation of it is not pursued by the dis

coverer himself, nor particularly by the gentlemen

to whom it was first communicated, I shall not hesi

tate to lay before the Royal Society an account of

I Ithe investigations have made upon it ; and do

this with the less scruple, as my particular manner

of viewing the phenomena has led me to some new
results, which probably will not be considered by
the Society as without interest in their relation to

the general theory of chemistry, and in their possi
ble application to some of the useful arts."

Voltaic pile, at his hotel, on the morning of the 1 1 th ; and the re
sults of his experiments are described at the conclusion of the above

22 THE LIFE OF

It was not until August 1814, that Gay-Lussac

read his paper on the subject, which was subse

Iquently published in the Annales de Chimie.

   After the above short, but trust honest state

ment, can any reasonable doubt exist, that, if Davy

had not visited Paris, Iodine would have remained

Xat the end of the year 1814, as it had been for
two preceding years --the unknown  ?

In a communication published in the first volume
of the Royal Institution Journal,
following observations upon this   Davy             offers the

                                   subject          : " With
Iregard to Iodine, the first had of it was from M.
IAmpere, who, before had seen the substance, sup
posed that it might contain a new supporter of

combustion.

   " Who had most share in developing the chemical

history of that body, must be determined by a re

view of the papers that have been published uponI it,

   and by an examination of their respective dates.
When M. Clement showed Iodine to me, he believed

that the hydriodic acid was muriatic acid and M.
       a it

                 a it,

                    I
                                                                                   ;
Gay-Lussac, after his early experiments, made origi
nally with M. Clement, formed the same opinion,

and maintained  when first stated to him my

belief that was new and peculiar acid, and that

Iodine was substance analogous in its chemical re

lations to Chlorine."

       was very desirous of ascertaining the feeling

which at present prevails amongst the French che

mists upon this subject and therefore requested

Mr. Underwood to make such enquiries as might
elicit the required information. In letter from
that gentleman, dated " Paris, August 22, 1830," he
                       ;

                            I

                                                 a

SIK HUMPHRY DAVY.  23

says, " Though Thenard and Gay-Lussac retain
great bitterness of feeling towards Davy, on account
of the affair of Iodine, Chevreul and Ampere are
still, as they ever were, of opinion, that such a feel

ing has its origin in a misconception ; that what
Davy did, was from the honest desire of promoting
science, and not from any wish to detract from the

merit of the French chemists."

    During his visit to Paris, Davy was not intro
duced to the Emperor. Lady Davy observed to
me, that, although Sir Humphry felt justly grate
ful for the indulgence granted to him as a Philo

sopher, he never, for a moment, forgot the duty he
owed his country as a Patriot ; and that he objected
to attend the levee of her bitterest enemy. On the

other hand, it is said that Napoleon never expressed

any wish to receive the English chemist ; and those

who seek in the depths for that which floats upon the

surface, have racked their imaginations in order to

Idiscover the source of this mysterious indifference ;

but apprehend that we have only to revert to the
political state of Europe in the year 1813, and the
problem will be solved.

   Amongst the reasons for supposing that the Em
peror must have felt ill disposed towards the Eng
lish philosopher, the following story has been told ;

which, as an anecdote, is sufficiently amusing ; and

I can state upon the highest authority, that it is

moreover perfectly true.

   It is well known that Bonaparte, during his whole

career, was in the habit of personal intercourse with
the savans of Paris, and that he not unfrequently

24 THE LIFE OF

informed of the decomposition of the alkalies, he

asked, with some impetuosity, how it happened that
the discovery had not been made in France? --" We

have never constructed a Voltaic battery of sufficient
                          answer. " Then," exclaimed Bona
ppaorwtee,r,""  was  the   be instantly formed, without any
                let  one

regard to cost or labour."

   The command of the Emperor was of course
obeyed ; and, on being informed that it was in full

action, he repaired to the laboratory to witness its

powers; on his alluding to the taste produced by

the contact of two metals, with that rapidity which

characterised all his motions, and before the attend

ants could interpose any precaution, he thrust the

extreme wires of the battery under his tongue, and

received a shock which nearly deprived him of sen
sation. After recovering from its effects, he quitted

the laboratory without making any remark, and

was never afterwards heard to refer to the subject.

  It is only an act of justice to state that Davy,

during his residence in the French capital, so far

from truckling to French politics, never lost an op
portunity of vindicating with temper the cause of

his own country. At the Theatre de la Porte Saint

Martin, a melodrame was got up, with the avowed

intention of exposing the English character to the
execration of the audience. Lord Cornwallis was
represented as the merciless assassin of the children
of Tippoo Saib. Davy was highly incensed at the
injustice of the representation, and abruptly quit
ted the theatre in a state of great indignation.

Whatever objections might have existed in his

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  25

they did not operate in preventing his being pre

sented to the Empress at Malmaison ; but he could

not be prevailed upon to appear upon that occasion,
in any other than a morning dress ; and it was not
until after repeated entreaty, and the assurance that

he would not be admitted into the Salle de recep
tion, that he consented to exchange a pair of half-

boots that laced in front, and came over the lower

part of his pantaloons, for black silk stockings and
shoes. His constant answer to the remonstrances of

Ihis friends was, " shall go in the same dress to
IMalmaison as that in which called upon the Prince

Regent at Carlton House."

   The introduction of Sir Humphry and Lady
Davy to the Empress Josephine, took place at Mal
maison on the 30th of November. The only Eng
lish present were, the Earl of Beverley, a detenue ;
General Sir Edward Paget, a prisoner of war, taken
in Spain, and Mr. Underwood ; and it was the first
levee at which any of our countrymen had been in
troduced, with the exception of Mr. Underwood,
who had been frequently in the habit of paying his

court to the Empress, and to whom, indeed, he was
indebted for those indulgences which have been

already mentioned.

    The persons present having arranged themselves
in a semicircle, the Empress entered the Salle de

reception, and in her usual gracious manner addressed
each individual. After this court ceremony, her

 Majesty retired, having previously signified to a
 select few, her desire that they should follow her

26 THE LIFE OF

and turned upon certain works of art; and upon
Lady Davy expressing, in very florid terms, her
admiration of some beautifully embellished cups
of Porcelain, which were stationed on the mantel

piece, her Majesty, with that good-nature which
ever distinguished her, immediately presented her
with a specimen.

   The Empress then proposed that Lady Davy

should on this occasion visit her conservatories,
upon which it is well known she had lavished large
sums, and was ambitious to be thought to possess

all that was rare and curious. Lady Davy having
expressed some apprehensions as to the coldness of
the day, and appearing to be but thinly clad, one of
the Dames du Palais was commanded to provide
cloaks ; and in a short time, Mr. Underwood says,
a mountain of the most costly and magnificent furs,
that probably ever appeared even in a Regal Palace,

were displayed before her ; the splendid trophies,
we may conclude, of the Royal conciliation at
Tilsit.

  It was on the 13th of December 1813, that Davy

was elected a corresponding member of the First
Class of the Imperial Institute; there were forty-

eight members present, and he had forty-seven
votes : Guyton de Morveau being the only person
who opposed his election.

   Nothing ever exceeded the liberality and un
affected kindness and attention with which the

savans of France had received and caressed the Eng
lish philosopher. Their conduct was the triumph
of Science over national animosity, -- a homage to

genius, alike honourable to those who bestowed,

SIH HUMPHRY DAVY.  27

and to him who received it ; and it would be an act
of ingratitude, a violation of historical justice, on
the part of the English biographer, did he omit to

express the pride and admiration with which every
philosopher in his country continues to regard it.

It would have been fortunate for the cause of

Science, and fortunate for the historian, could he
have terminated the subject with these remarks ;
but the biographer has an act of justice to perform,
which he must not suffer his friendship to evade,
nor his partialities to compromise.*

   It would be an act of literary dishonesty to assert

that Sir H. Davy returned the kindness of the
savans of France, in a manner which the friends of

Science could have expected and desired. There
was a flippancy in his manner, a superciliousness
and hauteur in his deportment, which surprised as
much as they offended. Whatever opinions he
might have formed as to the talents of the leading

chemists, it was weakness to betray, and arrogance

to avow them.

   He had, by a single blow, fatally mutilated the
system which was the pride and glory of their
nation : it was ungenerous to remind them of his

triumph. It required but little tact to have re

conciled the French philosophers to the revolution

   * In offering these observations, the reader may readily suppose

it has not been without much pain that I have made this sacrifice

of personal feeling to principle. 1 am, however, bound to ob
serve, that Sir Humphry's sentiments towards France for the liberal

indulgence granted to him were both grateful and kindly; and so
strongly does Lady Davy participate in that feeling, that I perhaps
owe it to her to state that neither her Ladyship's journals or in

28 THE LIFE OF

he had effected ; but, unfortunately, that cannot be

said of Davy, which was so wittily observed of Vol

taire, --that if he trod upon the toes of their pre

judices, he touched his hat at the same time: even
the affair of Iodine, had it been skilfully managed,

would never have left an angry feeling. It was

not his success, but the manner in which he spoke
of it, that rendered it so offensive. He should have

acted according to the judicious advice given to a
member of the clerical profession, upon his consult
ing a friend as to the propriety of continuing his
field-sports, should he become a dignitary of the

Church --" You may hunt, but you must not holla."

   It may be supposed that the unguarded conduct

of Davy reached the ear of the Emperor ; for in a
conversation with one of the leading members of
the Institute, Napoleon took occasion to observe,

that he understood the young English chemist held
them all in low estimation.

   Having thus candidly avowed the errors of Davy,

I may be justified in claiming from the reader his
Iconfidence in the sincerity with which shall at
Itempt to palliate them. From my personal know

ledge of his character, am inclined to refer much
of that unfortunate manner, which has been consi
dered as the expression of a haughty consciousness
of superiority, to the desire of concealing a mauvaise
honte and gaucherie--an ungraceful timidity, which

he could never conquer. The bashful man, if he

possess strong passions, will frequently force himself
into a state of effrontery, by a violence of effort

which passes amongst ordinary observers for the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  29

if, on the contrary, his temperament be cold and
passionless, he will exhibit traits of the most pain
ful reserve. This proposition cannot, perhaps, be
more forcibly illustrated than by a comparison of
the manners of Davy and Cavendish, whose tem

peraments were certainly as much opposed to each

other as fire is to ice : the latter, however, was shy
and bashful, to a degree bordering upon disease ;

and nothing so much distressed him as an intro

duction to strangers, or as his being pointed out as
a person distinguished in science. On one of the
Sunday evening soirees of Sir Joseph Banks, he
happened to be conversing with his friend Mr.

Hatchett, when Dr. Ingenhouz, who was rather
remarkable for pomposity of manner, approached
him with an Austrian gentleman in his hand, and
introduced him formally to Mr. Cavendish. He re
counted the titles and qualifications of his foreign

friend at great length, and concluded by saying,

that he had been particularly anxious to be intro

duced to a philosopher so universally celebrated

throughout Europe as Mr. Cavendish. As soon as
Dr. Ingenhouz had finished, the Austrian gentle
man began ; he assured Mr. Cavendish that one of

his principal inducements in coming to London,
was to see and converse with one whom he consi

dered the most distinguished chemist of the age.
To all these high-flown addresses, Mr. Cavendish
answered not a single word, but stood with his eyes
cast down upon the floor, in a state of the most

painful confusion. At length, espying an opening

in the crowd, he darted through it with all the

30 THE LIFE OF

he reached his carriage, which immediately drove

him home.

From the same cause, probably, arose Davy's

inattention and carelessness in those little obser

vances of etiquette, which many may treat as empty

and unmeaning ceremonials, but which the members

of a polished community regard as the delicate ex
pressions of feeling, and the language of sentiment.

  It is said, that on conversing in the chamber of

the Institute, he received one of its most distin

guished and venerable members, who approached
him with the air of salutation, without rising from

his seat ; a circumstance perhaps in itself of very
trifling importance, but it was considered as a mark

of disrespect, which is not readily forgiven, when a

spirit of rivalry may be supposed to sharpen the

affront. It will be remembered that Caesar might

date his loss of popularity to the fact of his having

received the Senate while sitting in the porch of the

temple of Venus, and that it formed one of the chief
pretences of those who organised the conspiracy

against his person.

There were, besides, other sources of unpopula

rity, which we are bound in fairness and candour to

Ifimpute to the excellencies, rather than to the defects,
of his character.    we believe with Johnson, that

men have sometimes gained reputation from their

foibles, we may certainly admit the converse of the

proposition, that they have occasionally lost it from

their virtues. Davy, as we have seen, possessed
from his earliest years a frankness of disposition

which endeared him to all his friends, but in after

life it unquestionably exposed him to various an-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  31

noyances, which by a little reserve he would have

certainly escaped. It is quite surprising how much

a little mystery, judiciously managed, will achieve.
Seven veils converted the fragment of a tile,
ploughed up in the neighbourhood of Florence,
into an object of awful devotion.*

   Although it must be admitted that our philo

sopher lost some popularity during his visit to the

French metropolis, the savans did not the less re

spect his talents, or admire his discoveries. They
appear to have been impressed with the same senti

ment as that which animated Voltaire, when he

asked whether the discovery of Racine's weakness
made the part of Pha;dra less admirable.

   M. Dumas, who is certainly by no means dis
tinguished for the readiness with which he is dis

posed to pay homage to British talent, has declared

that Davy was the greatest chemical genius that

ever appeared.

   In fact, the more the researches of this great ex

perimentalist are studied, the more they must be

admired : every attempt to depreciate their intrinsic

importance will only serve to display their exalted
merits; every attempt to falsify their results will

only tend to demonstrate their accuracy. It is by

an elaborate examination only, that the full evidence
of their truth can be displayed; there are points
which the keen eye of genius will discern, that are
invisible to a grosser sense : the coldness of criticism
then will only make them glow the brighter ; like
his own potassium, the contact even of ice, so far
from extinguishing, will light them up in splendour.

                                          * Gray's Letters.

32 THE LIFE OF

    Sir Humphry left Paris on the morning of the
29th of December, and proceeded by the way of
Lyons to Montpellier, where he remained for a

month, and became acquainted with M. Bekard,

who afterwards filled the chemical chair in that

university, and in whose laboratory he worked upon
the subject of Iodine, and examined many of the
marine productions of the Mediterranean, with the
view of determining whether they contained that
body. M. Berard directed a considerable quantity
of the species of Ulva, which abounds on the coast
of Languedoc, to be burnt for him ; and although
the ashes consisted for the most part of common salt,
he obtained traces of Iodine in the lixivium. From
the general results of his experiments, however, he

concludes, that the ashes of the fuci and uIvxe of the
Mediterranean afford it in much smaller quantities

than the sea- weed, from which soda is procured ; and

it was only in a very few instances that he could
derive any evidence of its existence. In the ashes
of the corallines and sponges, he could not obtain
the slightest indication of its presence. During

this period he also extended his enquiries respecting
the chemical agencies of Iodine, and the properties
of several of its compounds, especially of those in

which he believed it to exist in triple combination

with alkalies and oxygen, and for which he proposed
the name of Oxy-iodes.*

   While at Montpellier, Davy witnessed the pro-

   * These are the Iodates of the present day ; but Davy, it would
seem, resisted the conviction of Iodic acid being an oxy-acid, upon
the same grounds that he opposed the views of M. Gay-Lussac with

        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   S3

cession of the Pope on his return to Rome. His
Holiness appeared in a state of great humiliation,

and, on being supplicated by a poor woman to cure
her child, he replied, that she must propitiate
Heaven by her prayers, for that he was himself a

mere mortal, without power to heal or to save.

   He quitted Montpellier on the 7th of February,
and, accompanied by M. Berard, visited the fountain
of Vaucluse; he afterwards continued his route
to Nice, crossed the Col de Tende, to Turin, and

arrived at Genoa on the 25th of February ; from
which place the following letter is dated.

        TO MR. UNDERWOOD.

MY DEAR UNDERWOOD,         Genoa, March 4.

I have not received the letter you announced to

Ime in the street, concerning Ampere's note, nor any

others since left Paris. The note came to me
through the Prefect of Nice, with an indorsement

Iby M. Degerand.

      crossed the Alps by the Col de Tende, stayed

Iat Turin three days, and came here through snow

and ice, over the Bochetta, where have been wait
ing for a fair wind for Tuscany. We have had no

impediments except from the snow and the east

winds.

  If you can hear any thing of the destination of
I Ithe letters have twice missed, shall thank you to

Ilet me know by addressing me at Rome at the
Posta.  shall be most happy to hear some news of

you here, and shall always feel a lively interest in

34 THE LIFE OF

the Torpedo, but without any decisive results ; the

Icoldness of the weather renders the powers of the

animal feeble ; hope, however, to resume them at

INaples.

   Tell M. Ampere, hope he will not give up the
subject of the laws of the combination of gaseous
bodies, which is so worthy of being illustrated by his

talents, and which offers such ample scope for his
mathematical powers, united as they are with che

Imical knowledge :-- tell him also that hope he will
Isometimes write to me, and that shall always re
Imember with pleasure the hours have passed in

his society.

   Pray tell me that you are well ; and remember me
to all that are interested in me. My wife desires her

kind remembrances. I am, my dear Underwood,

                           Your very sincere friend,
                                                 H. Davy.

    Besides researches on the Torpedo, Davy made
farther experiments on the ashes of Sea- weed, which

were collected for him by Professor Viviani, of

Genoa.

    He left Genoa by water on the 13th, and arrived
at Florence on the 16th of March. Here he worked
in the laboratory of the Academia del Cimento, on
Iodine ; but more particularly on the combustion of
the Diamond. The experiments on this latter body
were performed by means of the great lens in the
cabinet of Natural History ; the same instrument as
that employed in the first trials on the action of the

III.solar heat on the diamond, instituted by Cosmo

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.       35

was assisted by Count      Bardi, the Director, and
Signior Gazzari, the
                           Professor of Chemistry at
Ithe Florentine Museum.
       have been informed that the hasty, and appa
rently careless manner in which he conducted his

experiments, and which has been already noticed*
as being characteristic of his style of manipulation,
greatly astonished the philosophers of Florence, and

even excited their alarm for the safety of the lens,
which on all occasions had been used by them with

such fastidious caution and delicacy.

   In the very first trials on the combustion of the

diamond, he ascertained a very curious circumstance

that had not been before noticed ; namely, that the
diamond, when strongly ignited by the lens in a
thin capsule of platinum, perforated with many ori
fices, so as to admit a free circulation of air, will con

tinue to burn in oxygen gas after being withdrawn

from the focus. The knowledge of this circum

stance enabled him to adopt a very simple apparatus

and mode of operation in his researches, and to com

plete in a few minutes experiments which had been

supposed to require the presence of a bright sunshine

for many hours.

The new facts obtained by the experiments on

Iodine, which he had commenced at Montpellier

and carried on at Florence, he embodied in a me

moir, which was read before the Royal Society on

the 16th of June 1814. It treated more particularly
of the triple
               compounds    containing   iodine and oxy
gen, --of the   hydrionic  acid, and of  the compounds

procured by means of it, -- of the combinations of

                           n2

36 THE LIFE OF

iodine and chlorine,-- of the action of some com

Ifpohoef udnseadtyesc,gtai"nsegesxisiotosndiniinoedsinienea,*cwo--amteabrni,nda,wtihloaincssht.ly,thoe"frethiseiodemivnoeedr,ye"

reason to believe must be the case, though in ex

tremely minute quantities, it is probably in triple

union with oxygen and sodium, and in this case

it must separate with the first crystals of common

salt."

He quitted Florence on the 3rd, and having

visited Sienna, entered Rome on the 6th of April.

The Continent having now become accessible, he

met with many of his English friends : but neither

the extended society by which he was surrounded,

nor the classical attractions of the city of the Caesars,

allured him from the pursuits of Science. We find

that, shortly after his arrival, he renewed his re

searches on the combustion of different kinds of

charcoal, in the laboratory of the Academia del

Lyncei, in which he was assisted by Sig. Morri-
chini and Barlocci, Professors of the College Sa-

pienza at Rome. Having arranged the results of

this investigation, together with those relating to

the combustion of the diamond, which he had pre

viously   obtained at Florence, he  transmitted a paper
to the   Royal Society, entitled "  Some Experiments

on the Combustion of the Diamond, and other car

bonaceous substances ;" which was read on the 23rd

of June, and published in the Second Part of the

Philosophical Transactions for the year 1814.

   * The compounds which he supposed to be thus produced are
of a very questionable nature ; with respect to that formed with the

                               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                  97

No sooner had it been established by various ac

curate experiments, that the diamond and common

charcoal consumed nearly the same quantity of oxy
gen in combustion, and produced a gas having the

same obvious qualities, than various conjectures were

formed to explain the remarkable differences in the

sensible qualities of these bodies, by supposing some

minute difference in their chemical composition.

MM. Biot and Arrago, from the high refractive

power of the diamond, suspected that it might con

tain hydrogen. Guyton Morveau inferred from his

experiments that it was pure carbon, and that char

coal was an oxide of carbon ; whereas Davy was

inclined to believe, from the circumstance of the

non-conducting power of the diamond, as well as

from the action of potassium upon that minute
portion of oxygen might enter its composition,
a

                                it,

                                                                    ;

                                                    a

                                                  it
although such supposition would be at variance

with the doctrine of definite proportions but more

lately, in his account of some new experiments on

the fluoric compounds, he hazarded the idea that

might be the carbonaceous principle combined with

some new and subtile element, belonging to the same

class as oxygen, chlorine, and fluorine, which has

hitherto escaped detection, but which may be ex

oDpxeayllvgeyed,n, ."ormnu"eswtTlhyeaxtcisotmsobbmienetewde,cehndemurtiihcnaegl  its combustion in
                                                                                   difference," says
                                                                                 hardest and most

beautiful of the gems and charcoal, between non
                                                                                 it
conductor and conductor of electricity,
                                                                                     is

                                                                                             a
it                                                                               scarcely

                            a
possible, notwithstanding the elaborate experiments

that have been made on the subject, to doubt and
                                                                                 a

                                                                                                               :
seems reasonable to expect, that very refined or

38 THE LIFE OF

perfect chemistry will confirm the analogies of Na
ture, and show that bodies cannot be exactly the
same in composition or chemical nature, and yet
totally different in all their physical properties."

   With these impressions, we may readily imagine
the ardour with which he availed himself of the use
of the great lens at Florence. He had in various

ways frequently attempted to fuse charcoal,* but

without success. In a letter addressed to Mr. Chil
dren is the following passage : " The great result to
be hoped for is the fusion of carbon ; and then you
may use diamond in the manufacture of gunpow

der."

   He tells us that he had long felt a desire to make
some new experiments on the combustion of the

diamond and other carbonaceous substances; and

that this desire was increased by the new fact ascer
tained with respect to iodine, which by uniting to
hydrogen, affords an acid so analogous to muriatic

acid, that it was for some time confounded with that
body. His object in these new experiments, was to
examine minutely whether any peculiar matter was
separated from the diamond during its combustion,
and to determine whether the gas, formed in this
process, was precisely the same in its minute che
mical nature, as that formed in the combustion of
common charcoal. By his experiments at Florence,

he satisfactorily accomplished his wishes, and esta

blished beyond a question the important fact, that

   * The supposed fusion of charcoal by Professor Silliman, by
means of Dr. Hare's galvanic deflagrator, was a fallacy arising
from the earthy impurities of the substance. See American Jour
nal of Science, vol. v. p. 108, and 361.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  39

" the diamond affords no other substance by its

combustion than pure carbonic acid gas; and that
the process is merely a solution of diamond in
oxygen, without any change in the volume of the

gas."

   As one of the principal objects in these researches

was to ascertain whether water was formed during
the combustion of the diamond, with a view to de

cide the question of the presence of hydrogen, every
possible source of fallacy was excluded. In one ex
periment there was an evident deposition of mois
ture, but it was immediately discovered to have been
owing to the production of vapour from a cork con
nected with a part of the apparatus, during the

combustion.

   In the progress of this research, he ascertained a

fact, the knowledge of which must not only be con

sidered as important to the present enquiry, but as

Ihighly valuable in excluding error from our reason

ings upon the delicate results of analysis* -- allude
to the extremely minute quantity of water which

becomes perceptible by deposition on a polished

glass surface. He introduced a piece of paper weigh
ing a grain into a tube of about the capacity of four
cubical inches, the exterior of which was gently

heated by a candle; immediately a slight but per
ceptible dew appeared in the interior of the upper
part of the tube ; the paper taken out and directly
weighed in a balance, sensible to 1-1 00th of a grain,

had not suffered any appreciable diminution. If,

   * It has a more especial bearing upon that experimental research
by which the nature of chlorine was established, as described

40 THE LIFE OF

then, on burning T84 grains of diamond in oxygen
gas, not even a barely perceptible dew was pro
duced, we may consider it as fully proved that this
gem cannot contain hydrogen in its composition :

but to render the demonstration, if possible, still

more complete, he kept a small diamond, weighing
45 of a grain, in a state of intense ignition by the
great lens of the Florentine Museum, for more than
half an hour, in chlorine; but the gas suffered no

change, and the diamond underwent no alteration
either in weight or appearance : now had the small
est portion of hydrogen been developed, white fumes
of muriatic acid would have been visible, and a cer
tain condensation of the gas must have taken place.

   The general tenor of his results was equally op
posed to the idea of the diamond containing oxygen ;
for, in such a case, the quantity of carbonic acid

generated by the combustion, would, on comparison,

have indicated that fact. By combining the car
bonic acid with lime, and then recovering the gas

from the precipitate by muriatic acid, he found its

proportion to be exactly that which was furnished
by an equal weight of Carrara marble similarly
treated.

   The enquiry next proceeds to the examination of
other forms of carbonaceous matter, such as plum
bago, charcoal formed by the action of sulphuric
acid on oil of turpentine, and that produced during
the formation of sulphuric ether; and lastly, the
common charcoal of oak.

   In all these bodies, he detected the presence of

hydrogen, both by the water generated during their

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   41

when ignited in chlorine. The chemical difference

then between the diamond and the purest charcoal,

would appear to consist in the latter containing hydro

gen ; but Davy very justly asks whether a quantity
of an element, less in some cases than l-5000th part
of the weight of the substance, can occasion so great

 difference in   physical    ansadyschheem, ic"ayl etchiat raisctecrosn?
                 possible,"
It is certainly
Ia

"
trary to analogy, and am more inclined to adopt

the opinion of Mr. Tennant, that the difference de
pends upon crystallization." In support of such an

opinion, he farther adduces the fact, that charcoal

after being intensely ignited in chlorine, is not al
tered in its conducting power or colour: in which
case the carbon is freed from the hydrogen, and yet
undergoes no alteration in its physical properties.

    One distinction supposed to exist between the

diamond and common carbonaceous substance, the
researches of Davy have certainly removed, viz. its

relative inflammability ; for he has shown that the
former will burn in oxygen with as much facility as

plumbago.
   The experiments, then, which Davy conducted

at Florence and Rome, have removed several im
portant errors with regard to the nature of carbo

naceous substances; and though they may not en

courage the labours of those speculative chemists

who still hope to illustrate the old proverb,* by ma
nufacturing diamonds out of charcoal, they certainly
show that they are less chimerical than those of the
wild visionaries who sought to convert the baser

metals into gold.
                        * " Carbonem pro Thesauro."

42 THE LIFE OF

   While at Rome, Davy was engaged for several
successive days in the house of Morrichini, for the
purpose of repeating with that philosopher his cu
rious experiments on magnetisation. Mr. Faraday
was charged with the performance of the experi

ments, but never could obtain any results.
   On the 8th of May he entered Naples, and re

mained there for three weeks, during which period
he visited Mount Vesuvius, and the volcanic coun

try surrounding it. He describes the crater, at this
time, as presenting the appearance of an immense

funnel, closed at the bottom, with many small aper
tures emitting steam ; while on the side towards

Torre del Greco, there was a large aperture from
which flame issued to a height of at least sixty yards,

producing a most violent hissing noise. He was

unable to approach sufficiently near the flame to
ascertain the results of the combustion ; but a con
siderable quantity of steam ascended from it ; and
he says, that when the wind blew the vapours upon
him, there was a distinct smell both of sulphurous
and muriatic acids, but there was no indication of
carbonaceous matter from the colour of the smoke ;

nor was any deposited upon the yellow and white
saline matter which surrounded the crater, and which
he found to be principally sulphate and muriate of
soda, and in some specimens there was also a consi

derable quantity of muriate of iron. At this period,

when the volcano was comparatively tranquil, he
observed the solfaterra to be in a very active state,
throwing up large quantities of steam, and some sul

phuretted hydrogen.

   At several subsequent periods he revisited Vesu

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 48

IVius ; and shall hereafter take occasion to relate

all the principal observations he made, and the con

clusions at which he arrived, with respect to this

the most interesting of all the phenomena of mineral

nature.

He also took great interest in the excavations at

that time going on at Pompeii, under the direction
of Murat, then King of Naples, who placed at his

disposal several specimens of art, which Davy re

ceived with a view to investigate the chemical com

position of the colours used by the Ancients.

On the 25th of May he returned to Rome, and
I Iagain quitted it on the 2nd of June.
       regret to say that the information  have re

ceived, as to the future continental travels of our

philosopher, is extremely meagre, and will consist of
little more than names and dates. Of this, how

ever, the reader may be assured, that nothing which

relates to his scientific researches has been omitted.

From Rome he proceeded to Terni, and thence to

Bologna, where he remained for three days ; then to

Mantua, Verona, and Milan. Whether at this or at

Isome subsequent period he went to Pavia, in order

to pay his homage to the illustrious Volta, enter

Itain some doubt ; but the time is immaterial to the

point of the anecdote am about to relate.
Davy had sent a letter to Pavia to announce his
intended visit; and on the appointed day and hour,

Volta, in full dress, anxiously awaited his arrival.

On the entrance of the great English philosopher

into the apartment, not only in deshabille, but in a

dress of which an English artisan would have been

 44 THE LIFE OF

such was the effect of his surprise, that he was for

 some time unable to address him.
    From Milan, which he left on the 22nd of June,

he went to Como, Domo D'Ossola, and then over

the Simplon, to Geneva, where he arrived on the

25th of that month, and remained until the 18th of
September. During this visit he made various ex
periments on Iodine, at the house of De Saussure,
which was situated near the edge of the Lake, and
about three miles from Geneva. He also worked
at M. Pictet's house, on the subject of the heat in
the solar spectrum. Here also he met with a
number of celebrated persons, whose society he

greatly enjoyed ; amongst whom were Madame de
Stael, Benjamin Constant, Necker, and Talma.
Lausanne, Vevay, Payerne, Berne, Zurich, Schaff-
hausen, and Munich, were successively visited by

him. His route was then continued through Ty

rol, Inspruck, Calmar, Bolsenna, Trent, Bassano,
Vicenza, Padua, to Venice ; where having remained
two days, he returned to Padua on the 16th of Oc
tober, and then proceeded to Ferrara, Bologna, and
Pietra-Mala ; near which latter place, in the Apen

nines, he examined a fire produced by gaseous mat
ter constantly disengaged from a schist stratum, and
from the results of its combustion, he concluded it
to be pure fire-damp. On again reaching Florence,
he found that the Professors had been dismissed,

but he nevertheless resumed his researches, first at
home, and afterwards in the laboratory of the Grand
Duke, where he submitted to analysis some gas
which had been collected by his attendant Mr. Fara

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       45

Pietra-Mala, then filled with water, and which from

the quantity of gas disengaged is called Aqua Buja.

It was found to be pure light carburetted hydrogen,

requiring two volumes of oxygen for its combus

tion,  and producing a volume of    carbonic acid    gas.
       is very probable," says he,                 gases
" It                                " that these

were disengaged from coal strata beneath the sur

face, or from bituminous schist above coal ; and at
some future period new sources of wealth may be

opened to Tuscany from this invaluable mineral

treasure."

On the 29th he left Florence, and passing through

Levano, Tortona, and Terni, arrived again at Rome,
on the 2nd of November, where he remained till the

1st of March 1815.

   During this winter he was engaged in an elabo
rate enquiry into the composition of ancient colours;

and also in experiments upon certain compounds of

iodine and of chlorine. Upon which subjects he trans

mitted to    the Royal Society three  memoirs, viz.  one
entitled, "  Some Experiments and                     on
                                       Observations

the Colours used in Painting by the Ancients,"

which was read on the 23rd of February ; a second,
" On a solid compound of Iodine and Oxygen," read
April 10 ; and a third, " On the action of Acids on

the Salts usually called Hyper-oxymuriates, and on

the Gases produced from them," read May 4, 1815 ;
all of which were published in the Philosophical

Transactions for that year.
   Although the paintings of the great masters of

Greece have been entirely destroyed, either by ac

cident, by time, or by the barbarian conquerors at

46 THE LIFE OF

Empire, yet there is sufficient proof that this art
attained a very high degree of excellence amongst

a people to whom genius and taste were a kind of

birthright, and who possessed a perception, which
seemed almost instinctive, of the dignified, the

beautiful, and the sublime.

Our philosopher observes, that the subjects of

many of those pictures are described in ancient au
thors, and that some idea of the manner and style

of the Greek  artists may  be gained   from the designs
              improperly              Etruscan," which
on the vases                called "

were executed by artists of Magna Graecia, and

many of which are probably copies from celebrated

works : of their execution and colouring, some faint

notion may be gained from the paintings in fresco

found at Rome, Herculaneum, and Pompeii ; for,

although these paintings are not properly Grecian,

yet at the period when Rome was the metropolis of

the world, the fine arts were cultivated in that city

exclusively by Greek artists, or by artists of the
Greek school ; while it is evident, on comparing the
descriptions of Vitruvius and Pliny with those of

Theophrastus, that the same materials for colouring

were employed at Rome and at Athens.

  With regard to the nature of these pigments, we

may obtain some information from the works of
Theophrastus, Dioscorides, Vitruvius, and Pliny ;

but until the present memoir by Sir H. Davy, no

experimental attempt had been made to identify
them, or to imitate such of them as are peculiar.

   His experiments, he informs us, were made upon
colours found in the Baths of Titus, and the ruins

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           47

other palaces and baths of ancient Rome, and in the
ruins of Pompeii.

By the kindness of his friend Canova, who was

charged with the care of the works connected with

ancient art in Rome, he was enabled to select, with

his own hands, specimens of the different pigments

that were found in vases discovered in the exca

vations made beneath the ruins of the palace of
Titus, and to compare them with the colours fixed

on the walls, or   detached in fragments    of stucco ;
and Signor Nelli,  the proprietor of the "
                                            Nozze Al-

dobrandine,"* permitted him to make such experi

ments upon the colours of that celebrated picture,

as was necessary to determine their nature.

  IWithout entering into the chemical details of the

subject, shall offer a general history of the nature

of the colours he examined.

  Of the red colours, he distinguished four distinct
kinds, viz. --one bright and approaching to orange,

which he found to be Minium, or the red oxide

of lead ; a second, dull red, which he ascertained to

be an iron ochre; a third, a purplish red, which

was likewise an ochre, but of a different tint ; and

a fourth, a brighter red than the first, which was

Vermilion or Cinnabar, a sulphuret of mercury. On

examining the fresco paintings in the Baths of

Titus, he found that all the three first colours had

been used, the ochres particularly, in the shades of

the figures, and the minium in the ornaments on

    The most celebrated picture of antiquity rescued from the
ruins of Herculaneum. It represents a virgin on her marriage

night, with her female attendants. An engraving of it is to be

48 THE LIFE OF

the borders. The fourth red had been employed in
various apartments, and formed the basis of the
colouring of the niche, and of other parts of the
chamber in which the Laocoon is said to have
been found in the time of Raphael ; a circumstance
which Davy considers as being favourable to the
belief that such apartments were intended for Im
perial use, since vermilion, amongst the Romans,
was a colour held in the highest esteem, and was
always one of great costliness.

   Of the yellows, the more inferior were mixtures

of ochre and different quantities of chalk ; the
richer varieties were ochres mixed with the red
oxide of lead.

   The ancients had also two other colours, which

were orange, or yellow ; the auripigmentum, or
apotviKov, said to approach to gold in the brilliancy
of its tint, and which is described by Vitruvius as
being found native in Pontus, and which Davy
says was evidently sulphuret of arsenic ; -- and a

pale sandarach, said by Pliny to have been found

in gold and silver mines, and which was imitated

at Rome by a partial calcination of cerusse. He

Iconceives that this must have been Massicot, or the

yellow oxide of lead mixed with minium ; sus

pect, however, that Davy was mistaken in suppos
ing that the ancients always applied the term San
darach to minium ; the 2avSap<wci of Aristotle was

evidently an arsenical sulphuret.

   In his examination of the ancient Frescoes, he
could not detect the use of orpiment ; but a deep

yellow, approaching to orange, which covered a

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                       49

Caius Cestius, proved to be oxide of lead, and con
sisted of massicot and minium. He considers it

lperaodbaobflediftfhearet ntht etinatnsc,iebnettsweuesnedthme a"nyustcaol"ouorfs   from
                                                                                  Pliny,
which was our minium, and imperfectly decom

posed cerusse, or pale massicot.

The differently shaded blues, by the action of

acids, uniformly assumed the same tint ; from which

he concluded that the effect of the base was varied

by different proportions of chalk. This base he as

certained to be a frit, made by means of soda and

sand, and coloured by oxide of copper.

   The greens were, in general, combinations of cop
per; and it seemed probable, that although they
appeared in the state of carbonate, they might ori
ginally have been laid on in that of acetate. The
purple of the ancients, the nop^opa of the Greeks,
and the Ostrum of the Romans, was regarded as

their most beautiful colour, and was obtained from

shell-fish. Vitruvius states that it was prepared by

beating the fish with instruments of iron, freeing

the purple liquor from the shell containing andit
then mixing with a little honey. Pliny says that,  a it,
for the use of the painters, argentine creta, (probably
a                                                             a

                 it
                                   it it
   clay used for polishing silver,) was dyed with it,

and both Vitruvius and Pliny state that was adul

terated, or imitations of made by tinging creta

with madder; whence                     would appear, that the

ancients were acquainted with the art of making

lake colour from that plant, similar to the one used

by modern painters.

   Pliny informs us, that the finest purple had tint

VOL. II.             E

50 THE LTFE OF

there was found a broken vase of earthenware,

which contained a pale rose colour; and Davy se
lected it as an appropriate subject for his analytical

experiments.

   Where this colour had been exposed to the action

of the air, its tint had faded into a cream colour, but

the interior parts retained a lustre approaching to

that of carmine. A diluted acid was found to dis

solve out of it a considerable quantity of carbonate
of lime, with which the colouring principle must
have been mixed, as a substance of a bright rose
colour remained after the process. This colouring

ingredient was proved to contain siliceous, aluminous,
and calcareous earths, without any sensible trace of
metallic matter, except oxide of iron. Upon heat
ing the substance, first in oxygen, and then with
hyperoxymuriate of potash, Davy was induced to

consider the colouring matter itself as either of ve

getable or animal origin ; the results, however, were

so equivocal, that he renounced the hope of determi

Ifning its nature from the products of its decomposi
tion.  it be of animal origin, he thinks it is most

probably the Tyrian or marine purple, as it is likely
that the most expensive colour would have been

employed in ornamenting the Imperial baths.
He had not observed any colour of the same tint

as this ancient lake in the fresco paintings ; the pur
plish reds in the Baths of Titus he ascertained to be
mixtures of red ochres and the blues of copper.
   The blacks and browns were mixtures of carbona
ceous matter, with the ores of iron or manganese.
The black from the Baths of Titus, as well as that
from some ruins near the Porta del Popolo, deflagra-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                          51

ted with nitre, and presented all the character of
carbon. This fact agrees with the statements of all
the ancient authors who have described the artificial
Greek and Roman black as consisting of carbona

ceous matter, either prepared from the powder of
charcoal, from the decomposition of resin, (a species
of lamp black,) from that of the lees of wine, or from
the common soot of wood fires. Pliny also mentions

the inks of the cuttle-fish, but adds, " Ex his non fit."

   Davy informs us, that, some years before, he had
examined the black matter of the cuttle-fish, and

had found it to be a carbonaceous substance mixed

with gelatine.*
   Pliny, moreover, speaks of ivory black invented

by Apelles ; of a natural fossil black ; and of a black
prepared from an earth of the colour of sulphur.
Davy is of opinion, that both these latter pigments
were ores of iron and manganese; and he observes
that the analysis of some purple glass satisfied him

that the ancients were well acquainted with the ores
of manganese.

   The whites which he examined from the Baths of
Titus, as well as those from other ruins, were either

chalk, or fine aluminous clay ; and he states that,
amongst all his researches, he never once met with

cerusse.

   This interesting account of the colours used by
the ancients is followed by observations on the man
ner in which they were applied; and the paper is
concluded with some general remarks of much prac

tical importance.

  I* find from a note addressed by Davy to Mr. Underwood,  that

he was engaged in these experiments in October 1801.

                                      Eg

52 THE LIFE OF

   The azure, he says, of which the excellence is suf
ficiently proved by its duration for 1700 years, may
be easily and cheaply imitated : he found, for in
stance, that fifteen parts of carbonate of soda, twenty
parts of opaque flint powdered, and three parts of
copper filings, by weight, when strongly heated to
gether for two hours, yielded a compound substance
of exactly the same tint, and of nearly the same de
gree of fusibility ; and which, when powdered, pro

duced a fine deep sky-blue.
   The azure, the red and yellow ochres, and the

blacks, appear to have been the only pigments which
have not undergone any change in the fresco paint
ings. The vermilion presents a darker hue than
that of recently made Dutch cinnabar ; and the red
lead is inferior in tint to that sold in the shops.
The greens are generally dull.

   The blue frit above mentioned, he considers as a

colour composed upon the truest principles ; and he
thinks there is reason to believe, that it is the colour

described by Theophrastus as the one manufactured

at Alexandria. " It embodies," says he, " the co

lour in a composition like stone, so as to prevent the
escape of elastic matter from it, or the decomposing
action of the elements upon it." He suggests the
possibility of making other frits, and thinks it would
be worth while to try whether the beautiful purple
given by oxide of gold could not be made useful in
a deeply tinted glass.

   Where frit cannot be employed, he observes that

metallic combinations which are insoluble in water,
and which are saturated with oxygen or some acid
matter, have been proved by the testimony of seven

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,      53

teen centuries to be the best pigments. In the red
ochres, for example, the oxide of iron is fully com

bined with oxygen and carbonic acid ; and the co

lours composed of them have never changed. The
carbonates of copper, which consist of an oxide and

an acid, have suffered but little alteration. Massi

cot and orpiment, he considers as those which have

been the least permanent amongst all the mineral

colours.

He next takes a view of the colours which owe

their origin to the improvements of modern che
mistry. He considers the patent yellow to be more

permanent, and the chromate of lead more beau
tiful, than any yellow possessed by the Greeks or
Romans. He pronounces Scheele's green (arsenite
of copper), and the insoluble muriatic combina

tions of copper, to be more unalterable than the
ancient greens ; and he thinks that the sulphate of

baryta offers a white far superior to any pigment

possessed by the ancients.

   In examining the colours used in the celebrated

Nozze Aldobrandine, he recognised all the com

pounds which his analytical enquiries had establish
ed : viz. the reds and yellows were all ochres ; the

blues, the Alexandrian frit ; the greens, copper ; the
purple, especially that in the garment of the Pro-
nuba, appeared to be a compound colour of red

ochre and copper ; the browns and blacks were
mixtures of ochres and carbon; while the whites

were carbonate of lime.          he adds, " like the
   " The great Greek painters,"

most illustrious artists of the Roman and Venetian

school, were probably sparing in the use of the more

54 THE LIFE OF

florid tints in historical and moral painting, and
produced their effects rather by the contrasts of
colouring in those parts of the picture where a deep
and uniform tint might be used, than by brilliant

Ifdra"pery.red and yellow ochres, blacks and whites,

were the pigments most employed by Protogenes
and Apelles, so they are likewise the colours most
employed by Raphael and Titian in their best style.

The St. John and the Venus, in the tribune of the
Gallery at Florence, offer striking examples of pic

tures in which all the deeper tints are evidently pro
duced by red and yellow ochres, and carbonaceous
substances.

   " As far as colours are concerned, these works are
prepared for that immortality which they deserve ;

but unfortunately, the oil and the canvass are vege
table materials, and liable to decomposition, and the
last is even less durable than the wood on which the
Greek artists painted their celebrated pictures.

   " It is unfortunate that the materials for receiving

those works which are worthy of passing down to
posterity as eternal monuments of genius, taste, and
industry, are not imperishable marble or stone:*

and that frit, or unalterable metallic combinations

have not been the only pigments employed by
great artists ; and that their varnishes have not been
sought for amongst the transparent compoundsf
unalterable in the atmosphere.

    * Copper, it is evident from the specimens in the ruins of Pom
peii, is a very perishable material ; but modern science might sug
gest some voltaic protection.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  55

   In his memoir " On a solid compound of Iodine

and Oxygen," he enumerates, amongst the agencies
of that body, its singular property of forming crys
talline combinations with all the fluid or solid acids.

It will be unnecessary to follow him through this

investigation, since its results have been found to be

erroneous. M. Serullas* has lately shown that the
crystalline bodies of Davy are nothing more than

the iodic acid, which being insoluble in acids, is

necHeisssaprialypepr re"cOipnitathteedabcytiotnheomf. Acids on Salts usu

ally called Hyper-oxymuriates," announced the im
portant fact of chlorine forming with oxygen a com
pound, in which the latter element exists in a still

greater proportion than in the body previously de
scribed by him under the name of Euchlorine.\

   Before finally quitting Italy, he spent three weeks

at Naples, during which period he experimented on
iodine and fluorine in the house of Sementini ; he

also paid several visits to Vesuvius, and found the
appearances of the crater to be entirely different from
those which it presented in the preceding yeax:\
there was, for instance, no aperture in it ; it was

often quiet for minutes together, and then burst out

into explosions with considerable violence, sending
fluid lava, and ignited stones and ashes, to a height

of many hundred feet in the air.
   " These eruptions," says he, " were preceded by

be found to be a substance of this kind ; and that, possibly, the so
lution of boracic acid in alcohol will form a varnish. He also thinks,

that the solution of sulphur in alcohol is worthy of an experiment.
     Annales de Chimie, t. 43. p. 216.

56 THE LIFE OF

subterraneous thunder, which appeared to come

from a great distance, and which sometimes lasted

Ifor a minute. During the four times that was
Iupon the crater, in the month of March, had

at last learnt to estimate the violence of the erup
tion from the nature of the sound : loud and long-

continued subterraneous thunder indicated a con

siderable explosion. Before the eruption, the crater

appeared perfectly tranquil ; and the bottom, ap
parently without an aperture, was covered with

ashes. Soon, indistinct rumbling sounds were

heard, as if at a great distance; gradually, the

sound approached nearer, and was like the noise of

artillery fired under our feet. The ashes then began
to rise and to be thrown out with smoke from the

bottom of the crater ; and lastly, the lava and ig

I Inited matter was ejected with a most violent explo
sion.  need not say, that when was standing on

the edge of the crater, witnessing this phenomenon,

the wind was blowing strongly from me ; without
this circumstance, it would have been dangerous to
have remained in such a situation ; and whenever

Ifrom the loudness of the thunder the eruption

promised to be violent, always ran as far as pos
                   seat of danger.
sible   from the  as the eruption   had  taken  place, the

   "   As soon

ashes and stones which rolled down the crater

seemed to fill up the aperture, so that it appeared

as if the ignited and elastic matter were discharged

laterally ; and the interior of the crater assumed

the same appearance as before."

                   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.              57

On the 21st of March, he quitted Naples, and

returned to England by the following route : Rome
-- Narni -- Nocere -- Fessombone -- Imola -- Mantua
B--re(Mnnaarchh--  30,) Verona -- Pero -- Trente  -- Botzen --
                   Inspruck --Zirl -- (April 4,)  Reuti-Men-
ningen--Ulm-- (April 6,) Stutgard --Heidelburg --
Mayence -- Boppert -- Coblentz -- Cologne -- (April
14,) Leuch -- Brussels -- Ostend -- Dover -- London,

58 THE LIFE OF

                    CHAPTER XI.

Collieries of the North of England .-- Fire-damp. --The dreadful

  --explosion at Felling Colliery described Letters from the Bishop

of Bristol to the Author.-- A Society is established at Bishop-

Wearmouth for preventing accidents in coal mines. --Various
projects for ensuring the miner's safety. --The Reverend Dr.
                                         addresses a letter to Sir H.
Gray,  the present  Bishop of Bristol,  the subject. --Sir H. Davy's
Davy,  and invites  his attention to

reply. -- Farther correspondence upon the possibility of devising

means of security. --Sir H. Davy proposes four different kinds
of lamp for the purpose. --The Safe-lamp --The Blowing-lamp --
The Piston-lamp --The Charcoal-lamp. -- His investigation of

the properties of fire-damp leads to the discovery of a new prin
ciple of safety.-- His views developed in a paper read before the
Royal Society on the 9th of November 1815. --The first Safety-
lamp. -- Safety-tubes superseded by Safety-canals. -- Flame
Sieves. --Wire-gauze lamp. --The phenomenon of slow Combus
tion, and its curious application. --The invention of the Safety-

lamp claimed by a Mr. Stephenson.-- A deputation of Coal-

owners wait upon Sir H. Davy, in order to express to him the
thanks of the Proprietors for his discovery. -- Mr. Buddle an

nounces to Dr. Gray (now Bishop of Bristol) the intention of
the Coal trade to present him with a service of plate. --The Re

solutions are opposed, and the claims of Stephenson urged, by
Mr. W. Brandling. -- A dinner is given to Sir Humphry, at which
the plate is presented to him. -- The President and Council of

the Royal Society protest against the claims still urged by Mr.
Stephenson's friends. -- Mr. Buddle's letter in answer to several

queries submitted to him by the Author. --Davy's Researches on
Flame. -- He receives from the Royal Society the Rumford Me

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             59

of the State in rewarding     scientific merit.--The Geological
Society of Cornwall receives  the patronage and support of Sir

Humphry.

   A few months after the return of Sir Humphry

Davy to England, his talents were put in requisi
tion to discover some remedy for an evil which had
hitherto defied the skill of the best practical engi
neers and mechanics of the kingdom, and which
continued to scatter misery and death amidst an
important and laborious class of our countrymen.

   To collect and publish a detailed account of the

numerous and awful accidents which have occurred

within the last few years, from the explosion of in
flammable air, at fire-damp, in the coal mines of the
North of England, would present a picture of the

most appalling nature. It appears from a statement

by Dr. Clanny, in the year 1813,* that, in the space
of seven years, upwards of three hundred pitmen
had been suddenly deprived of their lives, besides a
considerable number who had been severely wound

ed ; and that more than three hundred women and

children had been left in a state of the greatest

distress and poverty ; since which period the mines
have increased in depth, and until the happy dis
covery of Davy, the accidents continued to increase

in number.

  It may well be asked how it can possibly have

happened that, in a country so enlightened by
science and so distinguished for humanity, an evil
of such fearful magnitude, and of such frequent
recurrence, should for so long a period have excited
but little sympathy, beyond the immediate scene of

60 THE LIFE OF

the catastrophe. It would seem that a certain de

gree of doubt and mystery, or novelty, is essentially
necessary to create that species of dramatic interest
by which the passions are excited through the me
dium of the imagination : it is thus that the philan
thropist penetrates unknown regions, in search of
objects for his compassion, while he passes unheeded
the miserable groups who crowd his threshold ; it is
thus that the statesman pleads the injuries of the
Negro with an eloquence that shakes the thrones
of kings, while he bestows not a thought upon the
intrepid labourers in his own country, who for a
miserable pittance pass their days in the caverns of
the earth, to procure for him the means of defying
the severity of winter, and of chasing away the
gloom of his climate by an artificial sunshine.

   That the benefits conferred upon mankind by the
labours of Sir H. Davy may be properly appreci
ated, it is necessary to describe the magnitude of
the evil which his genius has removed, as well as
the numerous difficulties which opposed his efforts

and counteracted his designs.

   The great coal field,* the scene of those awful
accidents which will be hereafter described, extends
over a considerable part of the counties of North
umberland and Durham. The whole surface has

been calculated at a hundred and eighty square

   * Dr. Thomson has calculated that the quantity of coal ex
ported yearly from this formation exceeds two millions of chal
drons ; and he thinks it may be fairly stated, in round numbers,
that, at the present rate of waste, it will continue to supply coal
for a thousand years ! Mr. Phillips, however, is inclined to de

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  61

miles, and the number of different beds of coal has
been stated to exceed forty ; many of which, how
ever, are insignificant in point of dimensions. The

two most important are about six feet in thickness,

and are distinguished by the names of High main,
and Low main, the former being about sixty fa

thoms above the latter.

    From this statement, some idea may be formed
of the great extent of the excavations, and of the
consequent difficulty of successfully ventilating the
mines. In some collieries, they are continued for

 many miles, forming numerous windings and turn
 ings, along which the pitmen have frequently to
walk for forty or fifty minutes, before they arrive
at the workings ; during which time, as well as
when at work, they have no direct communication
with the surface of the earth. The most ingenious

machinery, however, has been contrived for con
ducting pure air through every part of the mine,
and for even ventilating the old excavations, which
 are technically called Wastes; and unless some ob
 struction occur, the plan* so far answers, as to
 furnish wholesome air to the pitmen, and to dimi

 nish, although, for reasons to be hereafter stated, it

 can never wholly prevent, the dangers of fire-damp ;

 the nature of which it will be necessary to consider.

    * In all large collieries, the air is accelerated through the work

 ings by placing furnaces, sometimes at the bottom, and sometimes
 at the top of the up-cast shaft ; in aid of which, at Wall's-end

 Colliery, a powerful air-pump worked by a steam-engine is em
 ployed to quicken the draft : this alone draws out of the mines a
 thousand hogsheads of air every minute. Stoppings and trap
 doors are also interposed in various parts of the workings, in order

62 THE LIFE OF

    The coal appears to part with a portion of carbu
retted hydrogen, when newly exposed to the atmo
sphere; a fact which explains the well-known cir
cumstance of the coal being more inflammable when
fresh from the pit, than after long exposure to the
air. We are informed by the Rev. Mr. Hodgson,
that, on pounding some common Newcastle coal
fresh from the mine, in a cask furnished with a

small aperture, he found the gas which issued from
it to be inflammable ; and Davy, on breaking some
lumps of coal under water, also ascertained that they
gave off inflammable gas. The supposition that the
coal strata have been formed under a pressure greater
than that of the atmosphere, may furnish a clue to
the comprehension of this phenomenon.

    On some occasions the pitmen have opened with
their picks crevices, or fissures, in the coal or shale,
which have emitted as much as seven hundred hogs
heads offire-damp in a minute. These Blowers, as
they are technically termed, have been known to
continue in a state of activity for many months, or
even years together;* a phenomenon which clearly
shows that the carburetted hydrogen must have ex
isted in the cavities of the strata in a very highly

compressed, if not actually in a liquid state, and

which, on the diminution of pressure, has resumed

its elastic form.

  All the sources of carburetted hydrogen would

appear to unite in the deep and valuable collieries
situated between the great North road and the sea.

    * Sir James Lowther found a uniform current of this description
produced in one of his mines for the space of two years and nine

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  63

Their air courses are thirty or forty miles in length ;

and here, as might be expected, the most tremendous
explosions have happened. Old workings, likewise,
upon being broken into, have not unfrequently
been found filled with this gas, and which, by ming
ling itself with the common air, has converted the
whole atmosphere of the mine into a magazine of

fire-damp.

    On the approach of a candle, it is in an instant
kindled : the expanding fluid drives before it a roar
 ing whirlwind of flaming air, which tears up every
 thing in its progress, scorching some of the miners

 to a cinder, and burying others under enormous ruins
 shaken from the roof; when thundering to the
 shafts, it converts the mine, as it were, into an enor

 mous piece of artillery, and wastes its fury in a dis
 charge of thick clouds of coal-dust, stones, and tim
 ber, together with the limbs and mangled bodies of

 men and horses.

    But this first, though apparently the most appal
 ling, is not the most destructive effect of these sub

terraneous combustions. All the stoppings and trap

 doors of the mine being blown down by the violence
 of the concussion, and the atmospheric current
 entirely excluded from the workings, such of the

 miners as may have survived the discharge are doom
 ed to the more painful and lingering death of suffo
 cation from the after-damp, or stythe, as it is termed,
 which immediately results from the combustion, and

 occupies the vacuum necessarily produced by it.

    As the phenomena accompanying these explosions
 are always of the same description, to relate the nu

64 THE LIFE OF

only to multiply pictures of death and human suf
fering, without an adequate object : it is, however,
essential to the just comprehension of the subject,
that the reader should receive at least one well-

authenticated account, in all its terrific details ; and

I have accordingly selected that which was origin

ally drawn up with much accuracy and feeling by
the Reverend John Hodgson, and which is prefixed
to the funeral sermon preached on the occasion, and

subsequently published by that gentleman.
   The accident occurred at Felling Colliery, near

Sunderland, on the 25th of May, in the year 1812.
This mine was considered by the workmen as a
model of perfection, both with regard to the purity
of its air, and the arrangements of its machinery.
The concern was in the highest degree prosperous ;
and no accident, except a trifling explosion which
slightly scorched two or three pitmen, had ever

occurred.

   Two shifts, or sets of men, were constantly em
ployed, the first of which entered the mine at four,
and were relieved at their working posts by the next
set at eleven o'clock in the morning ; but such was
the confidence of the pitmen in the safety of this
mine, that the second shift of men were often at

their posts before the first set had left them ; and
such happened to be the case on the following un

happy occasion.
   About half past eleven, on the morning of the

25th of May, the neighbouring villages were alarmed
by a tremendous explosion. The subterraneous fire
broke forth with two heavy discharges from the

          Sill HUMPHRY DAVY.            65

and two fathoms deep, and were almost immediately
followed by one from that termed the ' William pit,'

A slight trembling, as if from an earthquake, was

felt for about half a mile around the workings ; and
the noise of the explosion, though dull, was heard to
the distance of three or four miles, and greatly re

sembled an unsteady fire of infantry.

Immense quantities of dust and small coal accom

panied these blasts, and rose high into the air, in

the form of an inverted cone. The heaviest part of

the ejected matter, such as masses of timber, and

fragments of coal, fell near the pit, but the dust,

borne away by a strong west wind, fell in a conti
nued shower to the distance of a mile and a half ;

and in the village of Heworth, it caused a gloom,

like that of early twilight, and so covered the roads

that the footsteps of passengers were strongly im

printed on them.

   As soon as the explosion had been heard, the

wives and children of the pitmen rushed to the

working pit. Wildness and terror were pictured

in every countenance. The crowd thickened from

every side, and in a very short period several hun

dred persons had collected together; and the air
resounded with exclamations of despair for the fate

of husbands, parents, and children.

The machinery having been rendered useless by

the eruption, the rope of the gin was sent down the
shaft with all possible expedition. In the absence of

horses, a number of men, who seemed to acquire
strength as the necessity for it increased, applied
their shoulders to the starts, or shafts of the gin, and

worked it with astonishing expedition.

VOL. II.  F

66 THE LIFE OF

By twelve o'clock, thirty-two persons, all that

survived this dreadful catastrophe, had been brought
to day-light, but of these three boys lived only a

few hours. The dead bodies of two boys, miserably

scorched and shattered, were also brought up at the

same time. Twenty-nine persons, then, were all
who were left to relate what they had observed of
the appearances and effect of the explosion. One
hundred and twenty-one were in the mine when it

happened, eighty-seven of whom remained in the
workings. Eight persons had fortunately come up

a short time before the accident.

Those who had their friends restored, hastened

with them from the scene of destruction, and for

a while appeared to suffer as much from an excess
of joy, as they had a short time before from the

depth of despair ; while those who were yet in
the agony of suspense, filled the air with shrieks

and howlings, and ran about wringing their hands
and throwing their bodies into the most frantic and

extravagant gestures.
   As not one of the pitmen had escaped from the

mine by the only avenue open to them, the appre
hension for their safety momentarily increased, and
at a quarter after twelve o'clock, nine persons de

scended the John pit, with the faint hope that some
might still survive.

As the fire-damp would have been instantly ig
nited
mills ;  by candles, they lighted their way by steel-
         * and knowing that a great number of the

    * Steel-mills are small machines, which give light by turning
a cylinder of steel against a piece of flint. Sir James Lowther had

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  67

 miners must have been at the crane when the

 explosion happened, they at once attempted to
 reach that spot : their progress, however, was very
 soon intercepted by the prevalence of chodk dump,
 and the sparks from their steel-mill fell into it like
 dark drops of blood : deprived therefore of light,
 and nearly suffocated by the noxious atmosphere,

 they retraced their steps towards the shaft, but they

 were shortly stopped by a thick smoke which stood
like a wall before them. Here their steel-mills

became entirely useless, and the chance of their ever
finding any of their companions alive entirely hope
less ; to which should also be added the horror aris

ing from the conviction of the mine being on fire,
and the probability of a second explosion occurring
at the next moment, and of their being buried in
the ruins it would occasion.

   At two o'clock, five of the intrepid persons who

had thus nobly volunteered their assistance, ascend
ed ; two were still in the shaft, and the other two

remained below, when a second explosion, much

less severe, however, than the first, excited amongst

the relatives of those entombed in the mine still
more frightful expressions of grief and despair.
The persons in the shaft experienced but little in
convenience from this fresh eruption, while those
below, on hearing the distant growlings, imme
diately threw themselves flat on their faces, and in
this posture, by keeping a firm hold on a strong
wooden prop, they felt no other annoyance from

form was not inflammable by sparks from flint and steel ; and it
appears that a person in his employment invented the machine in

F2

68 THE LIFE OF

the blast than that of having their bodies tossed in
various directions, in the manner that a buoy is
heaved by the waves of the sea. As soon as the
atmospheric current returned down the shaft, they

were safely drawn to the light.

   As each came up, he was surrounded by a group
of anxious enquirers ; but not a ray of hope could

be elicited; and the second explosion so strongly
corroborated their account of the impure state of
the mine, that their assertions for the present seemed
to obtain credit. This impression, however, was but
of short duration, -- hope still lingered ; they recol
lected that persons had survived similar accidents,

and that, upon opening the mine, they had been
found alive after considerable intervals. Three mi

ners, for instance, had been shut up for forty days
in a pit near Byker, and during the whole of that

period had subsisted on candles and horse-beans.

Persons too were not wanting to agitate the minds
of the relatives with disbelief in the report of the

pitmen who had lately descended to explore the

mine. It was suggested to them, that want of

courage, or bribery, might have induced them to

magnify the danger, and to represent the impos
sibility of reaching the bodies of the unfortunate

sufferers. By this species of wicked industry, the
grief of the neighbourhood began to change its
gloomy, for an irritable aspect. The proposition to

exclude the atmospheric air from the mine, in order
to extinguish the fire, was received with the cries
of Murder !-- and with the determination to oppose

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  69

the pit during the whole of the night with the hope
of hearing the cries of a husband or a son.

   On Tuesday the 26th, that natural propensity in
the human mind to derive gratification from spec
tacles of horror, was exemplified in a very strik

ing manner. An immense crowd of colliers from
various parts, but more especially from the banks of
the river Wear, assembled around the pit, and were
clamorous in their reproaches of the persons con
cerned in the management of the mine, accusing
them of want of perseverance in their attempts to
rescue the unhappy sufferers. Every one had some

successful adventure to relate ; all were liberal in
their professions of readiness to give assistance ; but

not one was found hardy enough to enter the jaws
of the burning cavern.

   The leaders of this outcry, however, who had

been led into error by an impulse which did honour

to their hearts, were soon brought to listen with
patience to a relation of all the circumstances of the
explosion, and of the reasons for concluding that the

mine was then actually on fire, and the persons en

closed in it beyond the hope of recovery. They

very candidly allowed, after this explanation, the
impracticability of any attempt to reach the bodies
of the sufferers, until the fire was extinguished ; and
they accordingly urged the propriety of excluding
from the mine the access of air, as the only means of

accomplishing the object. At the same time, the

proprietors gave the strongest assurances to the mul

titude, that if any project could be devised for the

recovery of their friends, no cost or labour should be

70 THE LIFE OF

found willing to enter the mine, every facility and
assistance should be afforded him ; but, as they were
assured by the most eminent Viewers that the work
ings were inaccessible, they would not hold out any
reward for the attempt, --they would not be acces
sary to the death of any one, either by persuasion or

bribery.

   At the clamorous solicitation, however, of the

populace, two persons again descended the shaft, and
very nearly lost their lives in the attempt. The re
port of these last adventurers, in a great measure,
convinced the people of the impossibility of their
friends' survival in so deadly an atmosphere, and
reconciled them to the plan of excluding the air.

The operation was accordingly commenced, and it

proceeded without interruption; but from various
accidents, more than a month elapsed before the

mine was in a state to admit of examination; and

during this interval, numerous were the idle tales
which had been circulated throughout the country.
Several of the sufferers, it was said, had found their
way to the shafts, and been recovered. Their num
ber even had been circumstantially told -- how they
had subsisted on candles, oats, and beans, and how

they had heard the different persons who explored
the mine in the hope of rescuing them.

   Some conjuror too, it was said, had set his spells
and divinations to work, and had penetrated all the
secrets of the mine. He had discovered one famish
ing group receiving drops of water from the roof,
another eating their shoes and clothes, and many
other similar pictures of horror. These inventions
were carefully related to the widows, and they pro-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  71

duced the effect of daily harrowing up afresh their
sorrows ; indeed, it seemed the chief employment of
some to indulge in a kind of insane sport with their

own and their neighbours' calamity.

   The morning of Wednesday the 8th of July

having been appointed for exploring the workings,
the distress of the neighbourhood was again re
newed at an early hour : a great concourse of people
assembled ; some, out of curiosity, to witness the
commencement of an undertaking full of sadness

and danger, --some to excite the revenge, or to ag

gravate the sorrows, of the relatives by calumnies
and reproaches, for the sole purpose of mischief ; but

the greater part came with broken hearts and stream
ing eyes, in expectation of seeing the mangled
corpse of a father, brother, husband, or son.

   The shifts of men employed in this doleful and
unwholesome work were generally about eight in
number. They were four hours in, and eight hours
out of the mine ; so that each individual wrought

two shifts every twenty-four hours.
   When the first shift of men came up, a message

was dispatched for a number of coffins to be in
readiness at the mouth of the pit. Ninety-two had

been prepared, and they had to pass by the village

of Low Felling, in their way to the mine. As
soon as a cart-load of them was seen, the howl

ing of the women, who, hitherto secluded in their
dwellings, had now begun to assemble about their
doors, came on the breeze in slow fitful gusts, which
presaged a scene of the greatest distress and con

fusion.

   The bodies were found under various circum

72 THE LIFE OF

stances : one miner, from his position, must have
been sleeping when the explosion happened, and

had never opened his eyes. In one spot were found
twenty -one bodies in ghastly confusion,--some like
mummies, scorched as dry as if they had been

baked ; one wanted its head, another an arm -- the
scene was most terrific: the power of the fire was
visible upon all, but its effects were very various ;
while some were almost torn to pieces, there were

others who appeared as if they had sunk down over

powered by sleep.
    Every family had made arrangements for receiv

ing the dead bodies of their kindred ; but Dr.

Ramsay having given his opinion, that such a pro
ceeding might spread a putrid fever through the
neighbourhood, and the first body when exposed
to observation having presented a most horrid and

corrupt appearance, the people very properly con
sented to have each body interred as soon as it was
discovered, on condition that the hearse, in its way
to. the chapel-yard, should pass by the door of the

deceased.

   From the 8th of July to the 19th of September,

the heart-rending scene of mothers and widows ex
amining the putrid bodies of their sons and hus
bands, for marks by which to identify them, was
daily renewed ; but very few of them were recog
nised by any personal mark -- they were too much
mangled and scorched to retain any of their fea
tures : their clothes, tobacco-boxes, and shoes, were

therefore the only indications by which they could
be identified.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  73

ninety-two pitmen ; while forty widows, sixty girls,

and twenty-six boys, comprising in all one hundred

and twenty six persons, were thrown upon the be
nevolence of the public.

  It was impossible that an event of such awful

magnitude should not have deeply affected every

humane person resident in the district. Nothing,

in short, could exceed the anxiety which was mani

fested on the occasion ; but, most unfortunately,

there existed an invincible prejudice against every

proposition that could be offered, from a general im
pression as to the utter hopelessness of any attempt to

discover a remedy. A few philosophic individuals,

however, did form themselves, as we shall presently
learn, into an association for the laudable purpose of
inviting the attention of scientific men to the sub
ject, and of obtaining from them any suggestions
which might lead to a more secure method of light

ing the mines.
   To the Reverend Dr. Gray, the present Lord

IBishop of Bristol, who, at the period to which

allude, was the Rector of Bishop-Wearmouth, and

Ione of the most zealous and intelligent members of

the association, beg to offer my public acknow
ledgments and thanks for the several highly inter
esting communications and letters with which his

ILordship has obliged me, and by means of which

have been enabled to present to the scientific world
a complete history of those proceedings which have
so happily led to a discovery, of which it is not too
much to say that it is, at once, the pride of science,
the triumph of humanity, and the glory of the age

74 THE LIFE OF

   In  a letter I had lately the honour    saoyfs,re"cIetivwinags

from   that learned prelate, his Lordship

at a time when all relief was deemed hopeless, that

Mr. Wilkinson, a barrister in London, and a gentle

man distinguished for the humanity of his dispo

sition, suggested the expediency of establishing a

society for the purpose of enquiring whether any,

and what, methods of security might be adopted

for the prevention of those accidents so frequently
occurring in the collieries of Northumberland and

Durham.
   " In consequence of this benevolent suggestion, a

society was established at Bishop-Wearmouth, on

the 1st of October 1813, by Sir Ralph Milbanke,
afterwards Sir Ralph Noel, Dr. Gray, Dr. Pember-
ton, Mr. Robinson, Mr. Stephenson, and several

other gentlemen. It was entitled, ' A Society for

preventing Accidents in Coal-Mines ;' and it imme
diately obtained the patronage of the Bishop of
Durham, the Duke of Northumberland, and other

Anob"lemevneryanfdewgednatlyesmbeenf.ore the first meeting, twen

ty-seven persons had been killed in a colliery in

which Sir Ralph Milbanke had an interest, and he

was called upon at the meeting to state the parti

culars of the accident. At that time there was such

little expectation that any means could be devised

to prevent the occurrence of these explosions, that
the object of the gentlemen who convened the

meeting, however humane in principle, was consi
dered by the persons present as chimerical and vision
ary. The Society, however, amidst many difficul

ties and considerable discouragement, and a perpe

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                   75

tual harass by the offer of impracticable schemes

from every quarter, nevertheless persevered in their

meetings, and succeeded in establishing a communi
cation and correspondence with other Societies in
different parts of the kingdom."*

* It is unnecessary to enumerate the various schemes that have

been proposed to prevent accidents from fire-damp. Some were

unquestionably of value, and might, by their adoption, have dimi

nished the frequency of explosions ; others were visionary, or
wholly impracticable. It was proposed, for instance, to fill the

mine with an atmosphere of chlorine, which by entering into che

mical union with the carburetted hydrogen, might disarm it of its

power. Dr. Murray, in a paper published in the Transactions of

the Royal Society of Edinburgh, suggests the use of a lamp that

shall be supplied with air from the ground of the pit, by means of

a long flexible tube, upon the false assumption that the fire-damp

alone occupies the higher parts of the mine. Mr. W. Brandling

also constructed a Safe-lamp, which, like that of Dr. Murray, was

fed by air introduced through a long flexible tube reaching to the

floor of the mine. In addition to which, he attached to the top of

the lantern a pair of double bellows, by the aid of which he at the

same time drew out the contaminated air from the interior of the

lamp, and sucked in, through the flexible tube, a fresh portion to

supply its place. To say nothing of the inefficacy and inconve

nience of the long tube, the bellows possessed the additional ob

jection of frequently puffing out the light.        of the " Society
    One of the most active and intelligent members

for preventing accidents in Coal Mines," Dr. Clanny, had for some

time paid particular attention to the object in contemplation. He
first suggested the idea of an insulated lamp, of which an account
appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for 1813. In 1815, he

invented a steam safety-lamp, constructed of the strongest tinned

iron, with thick flint glass in front. In this machine, the air of

the coal mine passes in a current through a tube, and mixing with
the steam, before it can arrive at the light, burns steadily in the
wick of the lamp alone. This lamp has the valuable property of

remaining cool. It has been much used in the Herrington Mill

pit, the Whitefield pit, and the Engine pit.

76 THE LIFE OF

" One of the projects offered was, that electrical

machines should be employed, with ramifications to
extend through all the departments of the collieries,

and which were to be excited in discharging their
fluid in constant succession, in order gradually to

destroy the inflammable air. Many other sugges

tions were proposed, the principal of which were
formed with the intention of purifying the air of

the pits by chemical processes, or by forcing in large
quantities of atmospheric air, through pipes and

tunnels, &c.

   " The Society, although it received some distin

guished patronage, was not furnished with means

sufficiently ample for exciting emulation by pre

miums, or even for defraying the expenses of
intelligent artisans ; and it unfortunately lost a

considerable portion of its funds by the failure of
      W ear Bank.
the"               applications  which  more particu
      Amongst the

larly excited the attention of the Society, was that
of Mr. Ryan of Donegal, who objected to the prin
ciple upon which the working of collieries was car

ried on. He conceived that they should be origin

ally constructed at the commencement of the work

ing, with a view to admit the escape of the hydro

gen gas to the highest parts of the colliery. He

proposed to ventilate even the foulest pits, and the
attention of the gentlemen proprietors, or occupiers
of collieries, in the neighbourhood of Newcastle, was

called upon at public meetings, and an enquiry set
on foot with respect to the validity of his preten

sions. Some gentlemen were even deputed to pro

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  77

extent of his services in that county, where he had
been for some time employed. An offer was also

made to place under his management the Hecton
pit, at Hepburn, which was particularly foul ; but a
difference of opinion having arisen as to the efficacy
of his plan, he did not consider himself sufficiently
encouraged to proceed, and he left the country dis

satisfied. He afterwards received the gold medal
from the Society for promoting the Arts and

Sciences."

   The Society having as yet effected but little to
wards the great object of their deliberations, the
chairman of the committee, Dr. Gray, who was
generally acquainted with Sir Humphry Davy,
judged it expedient to direct his attention to a
subject, upon which, of all men of science, he ap

peared to be the best calculated to bring his exten
sive stores of chemical knowledge to a practical

bearing.

   As the life of this valuable man is now closed,
and as every incident in it is interesting as connect
ed with the advancement of philosophical know
ledge, and especially of chemical discoveries impor
tant to the welfare of mankind, it may be worth
while to enter into a review of the proceedings

which were adopted upon this occasion, in order to
trace the progress of the discoveries which were

 made, and the methods by which he arrived at his

 conclusions.

    Dr. Gray, the chairman of the committee, having
addressed to him a letter with a view to engage him

in an investigation so important to society, received

78 THE LIFE OF

      TO THE REVEREND DR. GBAY.

SIB,            August 3, 1815.

  I had the honour of receiving the letter which

Iyou addressed to me in London, at this place, and

am much obliged to you for calling my attention to

so important a subject.

  It will give me great satisfaction if my chemical

Iknowledge can be of any use in an enquiry so in

teresting to humanity, and beg you will assure the
Committee of my readiness to co-operate with them

in any experiments or investigations on the subject.

  If you think my visiting the mines can be of any
Iuse, will cheerfully do so.

   There appears to me to be several modes of des

troying the fire-damp without danger; but the diffi

Iculty is to ascertain when it is present, without intro

ducing lights which may inflame it. have thought
of two species of lights which have no power of in

Iflaming the gas which is the cause of the fire-damp,

but have not here the means of ascertaining whe

ther they will be sufficiently luminous to enable the

workmen to carry on their business. They can be

Ieasily procured, and at a cheaper rate than candles.
       do not recollect any thing of Mr. Ryan's plan :
it is possible that it has been mentioned to me in

Igeneral conversation, and that have forgotten it.
If it has been communicated to me in any other

Iway, it has made no impression on my memory.
      shall be here for ten days longer, and on my re

Iturn South, will visit any place you will be kind

enough to point out to me, where may be able to

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                        79

IShould the Bishop of Durham be at Auckland,

Ishall pay my respects to his Lordship on my return.

      have the honour to be, dear Sir, with much re

spect, your obedient humble servant,          H. Davy.

   At Lord Somerville's, near Melrose, N. B.

      TO THE SAME.

Sir,                       Melrose, August 18, 1815.
  I received your letter, which followed me to
Ithe Moors, where have been shooting with Lord
Somerville. I should have replied to it before this

Itime, but we were in a part of the Highlands where
there was no post.  am very grateful to you for

Ithe obliging invitation it contains.
      propose to leave the Tweed side on Tuesday or
IfWednesday, so that I shall be at Newcastle either
on Wednesday or Thursday.  you will have the

Ikindness to inform me by a letter, addressed at the

Post Office, where can find the gentleman you
mention, 1 will call upon him, and do any thing in

my power to assist the investigation in that neigh

bourhood.

  I Iregret that I cannot say positively whether

Ishall be at Newcastle on Wednesday or Thursday ;

for have some business at Kelso which may detain

Ime for a night, or it may be finished immediately.

      am travelling as a bachelor, and will do myself

the honour of paying my respects to you at Bishop-

IWearmouth towards the end of the week.
             am, Sir, with much respect,
                   Your obedient humble servant,
                                                     H. Davy.

80 THE LIFE OF

   The gentleman alluded to in the preceding letter,
and to whom Dr. Gray wished Sir H. Davy to ap
ply, was Mr. Buddle, a person whose extensive prac
tical knowledge has justly entitled him to be consi
dered as the highest authority on all subjects con
nected with the art of mining, and who has con
ferred inestimable benefits on the mining interests
by the introduction of successful methods of ven

tilation. The account of his interview with Sir H.

Davy is communicated in the following letter.

      MR. BTJDDLE TO DR. GRAY.

SIR)  Wall's-end Colliery, August 24, 1815.

Permit me to offer my best acknowledgments

for the opportunity which your attention to the

cause of humanity has afforded me of being intro

Iduced to Sir Humphry Davy.
      was this morning favoured with a call from him,

and he was accompanied by the Rev. Mr. Hodgson.
He made particular enquiries into the nature of the

danger arising from the discharge of the inflam

mable gas in our mines. I shall supply him with a

quantity of the gas to analyze ; and he has given

me reason to expect that a substitute may be found

for the steel mill, which will not fire the gas. He
seems also to think it possible to generate a gas, at a

moderate expense, which, by mixing with the at
mospheric current, will so far neutralize the inflam

mable air, as to prevent it firing at the candles of

the workmen.

  If he should be so fortunate as to succeed in
either the one or the other of these points, he will

render the most essential benefit to the mining in

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                81

terest of this country, and to the cause of humanity

Iin particular.

      have little doubt but it will be gratifying to

you to be informed, that progress is making towards
the establishment of a permanent fund for the relief

of sufferers by accident and sickness in the collieries

Iof this district.
      have the pleasure to remain, with great respect,
Sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

                                          John Buddle.

   Sir H. Davy on his return to London, having
been supplied by Mr. Buddle with various spe

cimens of fire-damp, proceeded, in the first instance,
to submit to a minute chemical examination the

substance with which he had to contend.

   In less than a fortnight, he informed Dr. Gray by

letter, that he had discovered some new and unex

pected properties in the gas, which had led to no
less than four different plans for lighting the mines
with safety.

TO THE REVEREND DR. GRAY.

MY DEAR SIR,        Royal Institution, Oct. 30.

   As it was the consequence of your invitation that

I endeavoured to investigate the nature of the fire
Idamp, owe to you the first notice of the progress
of my experiments.
   My results have been successful far beyond my

Iexpectations. I shall enclose a little sketch of my

views on the subject ; and hope in a few days to

be able to send a paper with the apparatus for the

82 THE LIFE OF

I trust the Safe lamp will answer all the objects
of the collier.
I consider this at present as a private communica
I Ition.
           wish you to examine the lamps have had

constructed, before you give any account of my

labours to the committee.

  I have never received so much pleasure from the
Iresult of any of my chemical labours ; for trust

Ithe cause of humanity will gain something by it.

      beg of you to present my best respects to Mrs.

Gray, and to remember me to your son.

  I am, my dear Sir, with many thanks for your
Ihospitality and kindness when was at Sunderland,

your obliged servant,                        H. Davy.

                  TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR SIR,           London, October 31, 1815.

I sent yesterday a sketch of my results on the
Ifire-damp. We have lately heard so much of East*

Shields, that by a strange accident confounded it
with Bishop-Wearmouth, and addressed your letter

Ito East Shields.
       could not find any body to frank
                       ;                     and you

will find                        I it,
a                 heavy packet however, could not

 I

       it

               a
lose moment in giving you an account of results

Ifwhich hope may be useful to humanity.

       my letter has not reached you, will be found
                                 I
at the Post Office, East Shields.
                                         it
With respects to Mrs. Gray, am, my dear Sir,

very sincerely yours,                        H. Davy.

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         S3

   The sketch alluded to in the foregoing letter, has
been kindly placed in my hands by the Bishop of
Bristol ; it possesses considerable interest as an ori

ginal document, displaying his earliest views, and
tending to illustrate the history of their progress.

I" The fire-damp  find, by chemical analysis, to

be (as it has been always supposed) a hydro-carbo

nate. It is a chemical combination of hydrogen gas

and carbon, in the proportion of 4 by weight of hy

Idrogen gas,   and 11^ of  charcoal.  if   mixed  with  less
   " find     it will not  explode,

than six times, or more than fourteen times its vo

lume of atmospheric air. Air, when rendered im

pure by the combustion of a candle, but in which

the candle will still burn, will not explode the gas

from the mines ; and when a lamp or candle is made

to burn in a close vessel having apertures only above

and below, an explosive mixture of gas admitted

merely enlarges the light, and then gradually ex

tinguishes it without explosion. Again, --the gas

mixed in any proportion with common air, I have

discovered, will not explode in a small tube, the dia

meter of which is less than ^th of an inch, or even a

larger tube, if there is a mechanical force urging the

gas"  through this tube.   of this    gas  with   air require
      Explosive mixtures

much stronger heat for their explosion than mix
tures of common inflammable gas.* Red-hot char

   * Olefiant gas, when mixed with such proportions of common
air as to render it explosive, is fired both by charcoal and iron

heated to a dull-red heat. Gaseous oxide of carbon, which explodes

                           G2

84 THE LIFE OF

coal, made so as not to flame, if blown up by a mix

ture of the mine gas and common air, does not ex
plode it, but gives light in it ; and iron, to cause the
explosion of mixtures of this gas with air, must be

made white-hot.

   " The discovery of these curious and unexpected
properties of the gas, leads to several practical me
thods of lighting the mines without any danger of

Iexp"loTshioen. first and simplest is what  shall call the

Safe lamp, in which a candle or a lamp burns in a
safe lantern which is air-tight in the sides, which

has tubes below for admitting air, a chamber above,
and a chimney for the foul air to pass through ; and

this is as portable as a common lantern, and not

much more expensive. In this, the light never
burns in its full quantity of air, and therefore is
more feeble than that of the common candle.

   " The second is the Slowing lamp. In this, the

candle or lamp burns in a close lantern, having a
tube below of small diameter for admitting air,
which is thrown in by a small pair of bellows, and a
tube above of the same diameter, furnished with a
cup filled with oil. This burns brighter than the

simple safe lamp, and is extinguished by explosive

mixtures of the fire-damp. In this apparatus the

candle may be made to burn as bright as in the air ;

and supposing an explosion to be made in it, it can

not reach to the external air.
   " The third is the Piston lamp, in which the can-

hot iron, and charcoal.  The case is the same with sulphuretted
hydrogen.

                      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           85

dle is made to burn in a small glass lantern furnish
ed with a piston, so constructed as to admit of air

being supplied and thrown into it without any com

munication between the burner and the external air :

this apparatus is not larger than the steel-mill, but

it is more expensive than the other, costing from

twe"nTtyh-etsweo   to twenty-four shillings.           when  the  air
                  lamps are all extinguished

becomes so polluted with fire-damp as to be ex

plo"sivTeh.ere is a fourth lamp, by means of which any

blowers may be examined in air in which respiration

                                                    the Charcoal lamp.
cannot be carried on : that                         is,
                                                                     a
                                                                                        is
This consists of small iron cage on stand, con
a
                   a
taining small pieces of very well burnt charcoal blown

up to red heat. This light will not inflame any

mixtures of air with fire-damp.*is
   " Of these inventions, the Safe lamp, which

the simplest, likewise the one which affords the

most perfect security, and requires no more care

or attention than the common candle, and when the

air in mines becomes improper for respiration,               a

*" In addition to these four lamps, we learn from an Appendix   it

                  the Philosophical Transactions, that in the be      is
to his Paper      in
                                          ;
                                                in
ginning of his enquiries, he constructed close lantern, which hea

called the Fire-valve lantern                       which the candle or lamp burnt

with its full quantity of air, admitted from an aperture below, till

the air began to be mixed with fire-damp, when, as the fire-damp

increased the flame, thermometrical spring at the top of the lan
                      a
                           a
tern, made of brass and steel, riveted together, and in curved

form, expanded, moved valve in the chimney, diminished the cir

culation of air, and extinguished the flame. He did not, however

pursue this invention, after he had discovered the properties of the

86 THE LIFE OF

extinguished, and the workmen ought immediately
to leave the place till a proper quantity of atmo

Isph"erichaaivrecamn abdee  supplied by ventilation.   lamps
                            many experiments on these

with the genuine fire-damp taken from a blower in

the Hepburn Colliery, collected under the inspec
tion of Mr. Dunn, and sent to me by the Reverend

Mr. Hodgson. My results have been always une

Iqu"ivocsahla. ll immediately send models of the different

lamps to such of the mines as are exposed to danger
from explosion ; and it will be the highest grati

fication to me to have assisted by my efforts a cause

so interesting to humanity."

   Contrary to the wish expressed by Sir Humphry
Davy, the foregoing communication was inadver
tently read at a public meeting of the Coal-trade,
which was held at Newcastle on the 3rd of Novem

ber : a circumstance which occasioned some em

barrassment at the time, but is satisfactorily ex
plained in the following letter from Sir Humphry.

TO THE REVEREND DR. GRAY.

MY DEAR SIR, 23, Grosvenor Street, Dec. 14, 1815.
My communication to           was, like that I

made to you, intended to be private ; he has how

ever written to me to apologize for having made

it known at Newcastle, stating, that having seen a
notice of my results in the paper, the motive, as he
conceived, for withholding it was at an end, as he

                              

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              87

my results from the public eye was the conviction

that they might be rendered more perfect, and this

I have now fully proved.
  I Itrust shall be able in a very few days to send

you a model of a lantern nearly as simple as a com

mon glass lantern, and which cannot communicate
Iexplosion to the fire-damp.
                              will send another to
INewcastle, and will likewise send you the copy
of my paper, which you may reprint in any form
you please ; you will find my acknowledgments to

you publicly stated.

My principles are these : First, a certain mixture

of azote and carbonic acid prevents the explosion

of the fire-damp, and this mixture is necessarily
formed in the safe lantern ; -- Secondly, the fire

damp will not explode in tubes or feeders of a cer

tain small diameter. The ingress into, and egress of

air from my lantern is through such tubes or feed

ers ; and therefore, when an explosion is artificially

made in the safe lantern, it does not communicate

to the external air.

  I have made two or three lanterns of different

forms. Experience must determine which will be

the most convenient.

   Should there be a little delay in sending them,

it will be the fault of the manufacturer. It is im

possible to conceive the difficulty of getting any

Ithing made in London which is not in the common

routine of business ; and should be very sorry to

Isend you any thing imperfectly executed.

   With best respects to Mrs. Gray, am, my dear Sir,

Very sincerely your obliged servant,
                                     H. Davy.

88 THE LIFE OF

   The paper alluded to in the preceding letter, en
titled, " On the Fire-damp of Coal Mines, and on
methods of lighting the mine so as to prevent its
explosion," was read before the Royal Society on
the 9th of November, 1815.

   In this memoir he communicates the results of
some chemical experiments upon the nature of the
fire-damp, and announces the existence of certain

properties in that gas, which had previously escaped
observation, and which leads to very simple methods
of lighting the mines without danger.

   He confirms the opinion of Dr. Henry, and
other chemists, as to the fire-damp being light car-
buretted hydrogen gas, and analogous to the in
flammable gas of marshes ; but he found that the
degree of its combustibility differed most materially
from that of the other common inflammable gases,
which it is well known will explode by the contact
of both red-hot iron and charcoal ; whereas well-

burned charcoal, ignited to the strongest red heat,
did not explode any mixture of the air and of the
fire-damp ; and a fire made of well-burned charcoal,
that is to say, of charcoal that will burn without
flame, was actually blown up to whiteness by an
explosive mixture containing the fire-damp without

producing its inflammation * An iron rod also, at

the highest degree of red heat, and even at the com
mon degree of white heat, did not inflame explosive

   * Whence he observes that, if it be necessary to be present in
a part of the mine where the fire-damp is explosive, for the purpose
of clearing the workings, taking away pillars of coal, or other ob
jects, the workmen may be safely lighted by a fire made of charcoal,

which burns without flame.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  89

mixtures of the fire-damp; but when in brilliant
combustion, it produced the effect.

   He moreover found that the heat produced by
the combustion of the fire-damp was much less than

that occasioned by most other inflammable gases

under similar circumstances; and hence its explo
sion was accompanied with comparatively less ex
pansion : a circumstance of obvious importance in
connection with the propagation of its flame.

    Numerous experiments were likewise instituted
by him with a view to determine the proportions of
air with which the fire-damp required to be mixed,
in order to produce an explosive atmosphere; and

he found the quantity necessary for that purpose to
be very considerable ; even when mixed with three
or nearly four times its bulk of air, it burnt quietly
in the atmosphere, and extinguished a taper. When
mixed with between five and six times its volume of

air, it exploded freely. The mixture which seemed
to possess the greatest explosive power was that of
seven or eight parts of air to one of gas.

   On adding azote and carbonic acid in different
proportions to explosive mixtures of fire-damp, it
was observed that, even in very small quantities,
these gases diminished the velocity of the inflamma
tion, or altogether destroyed it. In this stage of

the enquiry, the important fact was discovered, that

explosive mixtures could not be fired in metallic

tubes of certain lengths and diameters.* In ex

   * Mr. Tennant had, some years before, observed that mixtures
of the gas, from the distillation of coal, and air, would not explode
in very small tubes. Davy, however, was not aware of this at the

90 THE LIFE OF

ploding, for instance, a mixture of one part of gas
from the distillation of coal, and eight parts of air,
in a tube of a quarter of an inch in diameter and a
foot long, more than a second was required before
the flame reached from one end of the tube to the

other ; and not any mixture could be made to ex
plode in a glass tube of one-seventh of an inch in

diameter. In pursuing these experiments, he found

that, by diminishing its diameter, he might in the
same ratio shorten the tube without danger; and
that the same principle of security was obtained by
diminishing the length and increasing the number
of the tubes, so that a great number of small aper
tures would not pass explosion when their depth
was equal to their diameter. This fact led him to
trials upon sieves made of wire-gauze, or metallic
plates perforated with numerous small holes, and he
found that it was impossible to pass explosions

through them.*

   In reasoning upon these several phenomena, it

occurred to him, that as a high temperature was re
quired for the inflammation of the fire-damp, and as
it produced in burning, comparatively, a small de
gree of heat, the effect of carbonic acid and azote,
as well as that of the surfaces of small tubes, in pre
venting its explosion, depended upon their cooling
powers ; that is to say, upon their lowering the tem
perature of the exploding mixture to such a degree,

    * The apertures in the gauze should not be more than one-twen
tieth of an inch square. As the fire-damp is not inflamed by
ignited wire, the thickness of the wire is not of impoitance ; but
wire from one-fortieth to one-sixtieth of an inch in diameter is the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               91

that it was no longer sufficient for its continuous in
flammation. In support of this theory, he ascer

tained that metallic tubes resisted the passage of the
flame more powerfully than glass tubes of similar

lengths and diameters, metal being the better con
ductor of heat ; and that carbonic acid was more ef

fective than azote in depriving the fire-damp of its

explosive power, in consequence, as he considered,
of its greater capacity for heat, and likewise of a

higher conducting power connected with its greater

density.

   In this short statement, the reader is presented

with the whole theory and operation of the Safety-

lamp, which is nothing more than an apparatus by
which the inflammable air, upon exploding in its in

terior, cannot pass out without being so far cooled,
as to deprive it of the power of communicating in

flammation to the surrounding atmosphere. The
principle having been once discovered, it was easy
to adopt and multiply practical applications of it.

   From the result of these researches, it became at

once evident, that to light mines infested with fire

damp, with perfect security, it was only necessary to

use an air-tight lantern, supplied with air from tubes

of small diameter, through which explosions cannot

pass, and with a  chimney, on    a similar principle, at
the upper part,   to carry off
                                the foul air. A com

mon lantern, to be adapted to the purpose, merely

required to be made air-tight in the door and sides,
and to be furnished with the chimney, and the sys
tem of safety apertures below and above the flame

of the lamp. Such, in fact, was Davy's first Safety -

lamp ; and having afterwards varied the arrange

92 THE LIFE OF

ment of the tubes in different ways, he at length
exchanged them for canals, which consisted of close
concentric hollow metallic cylinders of different dia
meter, so placed together as to form circular canals
of the diameter of from one-twenty-fifth to one
fortieth of an inch ; and of an inch and seven-tenths

in length ; by which air is admitted in much larger
quantities than by the small tubes, and they are
moreover much superior to the latter in practical ap

plication. He also found, that longitudinal air-
canals of metal might be employed with the same se
curity as circular canals ; and that a few pieces of tin
plate, soldered together with wires to regulate the
diameter of the canal, answered the purpose of the

feeder or safe chimney, as well as drawn cylinders

of brass.
   The subjoined explanatory sketches will assist in

rendering the scheme intelligible, and obviate the
possibility of any misconception of the subject.

                      Fig. 1. represents the first Safe

                      lantern, with its air-feeder and chim
                      ney furnished with safety metallic
                      canals. The sides are of horn or

                        glass, made air-tight by putty or ce

                   ment. A. is the lamp through

                        which the circular air-feeding canals
                        pass. B. is the chimney containing
                      four such canals ; above it is a hollow
                      cylinder, with a cap to prevent dust
                        from passing into the chimney. C.

                    is the hole for admitting oil. F. is
                      the rim round the bottom of the lan
                      tern, to enable it to bear motion.-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          93

   Fig. 2. exhibits an enlarged

view of the safety concentric

canals, which, if one-twenty-

fifth of an inch in diameter,

must not be less than two inches

in exterior circumference, and
one-seventh of an inch high.

   Fig. 3. exhibits the longitu

dinal safety canals.

    Fig. 4. represents a Safety-lamp

having a glass chimney, covered with
tin-plate, and the safety apertures in a

cylinder with a covering above : the
lower part is the same as in the lantern.

Fig. 5. A glass tube furnished

Awith flame sieves, in which a common
candle may be burnt.                       A. the flame

sieves. B. a little plate of metal to

prevent the upper flame sieve from

being acted on by the current of hot

94 THE LIFE OF

During the short visit of Sir Humphry Davy at
Bishop Wearmouth, he saw the lamp which Dr.

Clanny was then engaged in perfecting. It has

been already observed, that it was secured against

the effects of fire-damp by being supplied with at

mospheric air previously conveyed through water.*

The machinery of this lamp was far too cumbrous

to be of general use; but its inventor was justly

commended by Davy for his ingenuity and perse

verance. It unfortunately happened that, in con

sequence of some erroneous representations made

to Dr. Clanny, he received the impression that Sir

Humphry had not been disposed to treat his in

vention with sufficient respect, nor had given him

the credit to which he was so justly entitled. This

suspicion, which had been long industriously kept

alive, was however ultimately removed.

IThe following letter refers to this unfortunate
circumstance.  have adverted to it in these me

moirs, for the purpose of showing what an unfair
spirit of rivalry, and what a succession of petty jea

lousies were excited by those generous and disin
terested labours of Davy, which ought to have

called forth nothing but the most lively expressions
of gratitude for his services, and admiration of his

genius.

         TO THE REVEREND DR. GRAY.

      MY DEAR SIR, 23, Grosvenor Street, December 13.

  A Friend of mine has sent me a newspaper --

   * M. de Humboldt conceived and executed the plan of a lamp
in 1 796, for giving a safe light in mines, upon a similar principle

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  95

the Tyne Mercury, containing a very foolish libel

Iupon me. It states, amongst other things, that

did not mention Dr. Clanny, or his lamp, in my late

paper read before the Royal Society ; whereas I

mentioned his lamp as a very ingenious contrivance,

and named him amongst the gentlemen who obli

gingly furnished me with information upon the

subject.

  It will be needless for me to point out to you

that my lamp has no one principle in common with
that of Dr. Clanny. He forces in his air through
water by bellows. In mine, the air passes through

safety canals without any mechanical assistance.

Mine is a common lantern made close, and furnished

I Iwith safety canals.

      hope shall not hear that Dr. Clanny has in

any way authorized or promoted so improper a state

Iment as that in the Tyne Mercury ; indeed, do
Inot think it possible.
      have at last obtained a complete model of my

Ilamp, after many disappointments from the instru
ment-maker.  hope in a few days to send you a

Safe lantern, as portable as a common-made one, and

Ithe perfect security of which is demonstrable.
          am, my dear Sir, your sincerely obliged,
                                                     H. Davy.

             TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR SIR,  Grosvenor Street, December 15.
I shall inclose the first sheet of my paper, and
shall be glad to preface it by some observations

96 THE LIFE OF

a few days. They are absolutely safe ; and if the

miners have any more explosions from their light,
it will be their own fault.

   You will find, when you see my construction,

that the principles as well as the execution are en
tirely new.

  IYou will find in the second sheet of my paper,

which hope to be able to send to-morrow, the

Iprinciples of security, and its limits unfolded.
       am, my dear Sir, very sincerely yours,
                                                     H. Davy.

         TO THE SAME.

I MY DEAR SIR,  London, January 1, 1816.
fear you will have accused me of procrasti
nation in delaying to send you my papers and my

lamps.

The papers read to the Royal Society have been
printed ; but during the period that has elapsed

I Isince last wrote to you, have made a discovery

Imuch more important than those which have al
Iready had the honour of communicating to you.
      have made very simple and economical lanterns,

and candle guards, which are not only absolutely
safe, but which give light by means of the fire

damp, and which, while they disarm this destruc
tive agent, make it useful to the miner.

  IThis discovery is a consequence of that which
Icommunicated to you in my last letter on the wire
sieves.  hope to be able to send you on Wednes

day the printed account of my results, together
with models of lamps which will burn and consume
all explosive mixtures of the fire-damp.

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                            97

  I have at last finished my enquiries with perfect
Isatisfaction to myself, and feel highly obliged to
Iyou for having called
                        my attention to     a subject
where my labours will,                       use.
                        I hope, be of some

am, my dear Sir, very sincerely yours,
                            H. Davy.

   It is impossible to approach the consideration of

this last, the most signal and splendid of his tri
umphs, without feelings of the highest satisfaction.
He had already, as we have seen, disarmed the fire
damp of its terrors, it only remained for him to en
list it into his service. The simple means by which
this was effected are as interesting as their results

are important.*

    Davy had previously arrived at the fact, that

wire-gauze might be substituted as air-feeders to
the lamp, in the place of his tubes or safety canals ;
but not until after the lapse of several weeks, did
the happy idea of constructing the lamp entirely of
wire-gauze occur to him : -- the history of this ela
borate enquiry affords a striking proof of the in
ability of the human mind to apprehend simplici
ties, without a process of complication which works
as the grappling machinery of truth.

   His original lamp with tubes or canals, as already

described, was perfectly safe in the most explosive

atmosphere, but its light was necessarily extinguish
ed by it ; whereas in the wire-gauze cage, the fire
damp itself continues to burn, and thus to afford to

* " An Account of an Invention for giving Light in explosive

mixtures of Fire-damp in Coal Mines, by consuming the Fire

damp." Read before the Royal Society, Jan. 11, 1816.

VOL. n.                 H

98 THE LIFE OF

the miner a useful light, while he is equally secured
from the fatal effects of explosion.

              All then required for his guidance and

             protection in the darkness of the mine, are
               candles or lamps surrounded by small wire
             cages, which will at once supply air to the
              flame, and light to the miner; they may
               be obtained for a few pence, and be vari

               ously modified as circumstances may ren

                der necessary.

                 The reader is here presented with a
sketch of the gauze instrument, in its first and sim
plest form. The original lamp is preserved in the
laboratory of the Royal Institution.

    Nothing now remained but to ascertain the de
gree of fineness which the wire-gauze ought to pos
sess, in order to form a secure barrier against the
passage of flame. For this purpose, Davy placed
his lighted lamps in a glass receiver, through which
there was a current of atmospherical air, and by
means of a gasometer filled with coal gas, he made
the current of air which passed into the lamp more
or less explosive, and caused it to change rapidly or
slowly at pleasure, so as to produce all possible vari
eties of inflammable and explosive mixtures ; and
he found that iron wire-gauze composed of wires
from one-fortieth to one-sixtieth of an inch in dia

meter, and containing twenty-eight wires, or seven
hundred and eighty-four apertures to the inch, was
safe under all circumstances in atmospheres of this
kind ; and he consequently employed that material

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      99

January 1816, they were immediately adopted, and

have long been in general use.

Obervations upon them in their working state,

and upon the circumstances to which they are expo

sed, have led to a few improvements or alterations,

merely connected with the modes of increasing light

or diminishing heat, which were obvious from the

original construction.

    The annexed woodcut represents the

lamp which is in present use. A is a cy

linder of wire-gauze, with a double top,

securely and carefully fastened, by doub
ling over, to the brass rim B, which screws

on to the lamp C. The whole is protected
by strong iron supports D, to which a ring

is affixed for the convenience of carrying it.

In a paper read before the Royal So

ciety,   on the         23rd  of January 1817, en
titled,                 new   Experiments and Ob
         " Some

servations on the Combustion of Gaseous

Mixtures, with an Account of a method of preserv
ing a continued Light in mixtures of inflammable
Gases and Air without Flame," Sir H. Davy an

nounces the application of a principle which he had
discovered in the progress of his researches for in
creasing the utility of the Safety-lamp, and which, a
century ago, would have unquestionably exposed its
author to the charge of witchcraft.

   Having ascertained that the temperature of flame
is infinitely higher than that necessary for the igni
tion of solid bodies, it appeared to him probable
that, in certain combinations of gaseous bodies,

                        H2

100 THE LIFE OF

although the increase of temperature might not be
sufficient to render the gaseous matters themselves
luminous, they might nevertheless be adequate to
ignite solid matters exposed to them. During his
experiments on this subject, he was led to the dis
covery of the curious phenomenon of slow combus
tion without flame. He observes, that there cannot
be a better mode of illustrating the fact, than by an
experiment on the vapour of ether or of alcohol.
Let a few coils of wire of platinum of the one-six
tieth or one-seventieth of an inch be heated by a
hot poker or candle, and let it be brought into the
glass ; it will presently become glowing, almost
white hot, and will continue so, as long as a suf
ficient quantity of vapour and of air remain in the

 glass.*

    This experiment on the slow combustion of ether
 is accompanied with the formation of a peculiar
 acrid and volatile substance possessed of acid pro
 perties, which has been particularly examined by

      This principle has been applied for constructing what has been
 termed the Aphlogistic Lamp, which is formed by placing a small
 coil of platinum wire round the wick of a common spirit lamp.
  When the lamp, after being lighted for a few moments, is blown
  out, the platinum wire continues to glow for several hours, as long
  as there is a supply of spirit of wine, and to give light enough to
  read by ; and sometimes the heat produced is sufficient to re
  kindle the lamp spontaneously. The same phenomena are pro
  duced by the vapour of camphor ; and an aromatic fumigating
  lamp has lately been advertised for sale, which is no other than
 the contrivance above described ; and it is evident that, if the
  spirit be impregnated with fragrant principles, an aromatic vinegar
  will be developed during its slow combustion, and diffused in

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  101

Mr. Daniell, who, having at first regarded it as a
new acid, proposed for it the name of Lampic acid,

in allusion to the researches which led to its dis

covery ; he has, however, since ascertained that its

acidity is owing to the acetic acid, which is com
bined with some compound of carbon and hydro

gen, different both from ether and alcohol.
   The phenomena of slow combustion, as exhibited

in certain states of the mine, by the Safety-lamp,

are highly curious and interesting.
   By suspending some coils of fine wire of pla

tinum* above the wick of his lamp, the miner will
be supplied with light in mixtures of fire-damp no
longer explosive ; for should his flame be extin
guished by the quantity of fire-damp, the little coil
of platinum will begin to glow with a light suf
ficiently bright to guide him in what would other
wise be impenetrable darkness, and to lead him into
a purer atmosphere, when the heat thus increased
will very frequently be sufficient to rekindle his

lamp !

   In this case it will be readily perceived, that the
combustion of the fire-damp is continued so slowly,

and at so low a temperature, as not to be adequate
to that ignition of gaseous matter which constitutes

flame, although it excites a temperature sufficient to

render platinum wire luminous.

   * Sir Humphry Davy attempted to produce the phenomena
with various other metals, but he only succeeded with platinum
and palladium ; these bodies have low conducting powers, and
small capacities for heat, in comparison with other metals, which
seem to be the causes of their producing, continuing, and render

ing sensible, these slow combustions.

102 THE LIFE OF

Sir Humphry Davy observes, that there never

can be any danger with respect to respiration, when

ever the wire continues ignited ; for even this phe

nomenon ceases when the foul air forms about two-

fifths of the volume of the atmosphere.

The experiment, as originally performed by the

illustrious chemist, is so interesting and instructive,

Ithat shall here relate it in his own words.
  I" introduced into a wire-gauze Safe lamp a
small cage made of fine wire of platinum of one-
seventieth of an inch in thickness, and fixed it by

means of a thick wire of the same metal about two
Iinches above the wick which was lighted.
                                           placed

the whole apparatus in a large receiver, in which, by

means of a gas-holder, the air could be contami
nated to any extent with coal gas. As soon as

there was a slight admixture of coal gas, the pla

tinum became ignited; the ignition continued to
increase till the flame of the wick was extinguished,
and till the whole cylinder became filled with flame;
it then diminished. When the quantity of coal gas

was increased, so as to extinguish the flame, at the

moment of the extinction the cage of platinum be

came white hot, and presented a most brilliant light.

By increasing the quantity of the coal gas still far

ther, the ignition of the platinum became less vivid :

when its light was barely sensible, small quantities
of air were admitted, its heat speedily increased ;

and by regulating the admission of coal gas and air,
it again became white hot, and soon after lighted

the flame in the cylinder, which as usual, by the
addition of more atmospherical air, rekindled the
flame of the wick."

                           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

  I have thus related, somewhat in detail, the his

tory of a discovery, which, whether considered in

relation to its scientific importance, or to its great
practical value, must be regarded as one of the most

splendid triumphs of human genius. It was the

fruit of elaborate experiment and close induction ;

chance, or accident, which comes in for so large a
share of the credit of human invention, has no

claims to prefer upon this occasion ; step by step,
may he be followed throughout the whole progress
of his research, and so obviously does the discovery
of each new fact spring from those that preceded it,
that we never for a moment lose sight of our phi

losopher, but keep pace with him during the whole
of his curious enquiry.

    He commenced, as we have seen, with ascer
taining the degree of combustibility of the fire
damp, and the limits in which the proportions of

atmospheric air and carburetted hydrogen can be

combined, so as to afford an explosive mixture. He
was then led to examine the effects of the admix

ture of azote and carbonic acid gas ; and the result
of those experiments furnished him with the basis
of his first plan of security. His next step was
to enquire whether explosions of gas would pass
through tubes; and on finding that this did not

happen, if the tubes were of certain lengths and

diameters, he proceeded to examine the limits of
such conditions, and by shortening the tubes, di
minishing their diameters, and multiplying their
number, he at length arrived at the conclusion, that
a simple tissue of wire-gauze afforded all the means

104 THE LIFE OF

which has been truly declared to be as marvellous
in its operation, as the storied lamp of Aladdin,
realizing its fabled powers of conducting in safety,
through " fiends of combustion," to the hidden trea
sures of the earth. We behold a power which, in
its effects, seemed to emulate the violence of the

volcano and the earthquake, at once restrained by
an almost invisible and impalpable barrier of net
work -- we behold, as it were, the daemon of fire

taken captive by Science, and ministering to the
convenience of the miner, while harmlessly flutter

ing in an iron cage.

   And yet, wonderful as the phenomenon may ap

pear, his experiments and reasonings have demon

strated, that the interruption of flame by solid tis
sues permeable to light and air, depends upon no
recondite or mysterlous cause, but simply upon
their cooling powers, which must always be pro
portional to the smallness of the mesh, and the mass
of the metal.

   When it is remembered that the security thus

conferred upon the labouring community, is not
merely the privilege of the age in which the dis
covery was effected, but must be extended to future
times, and continue to preserve human life as long
as coal is dug from our mines, can there be found
in the whole compass of art or science, an invention

more useful and glorious ?
   The wire-gauze lamp has now been several years

extensively used in the mines, and the most satis

factory and unequivocal testimonies have been pub
lished of the complete security which it affords.
They have amongst the miners obtained the name of

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                             105

Davys ; and such is the confidence of the work men
in their efficacy, that by their aid they enter the

most explosive atmospheres, and explore the most

remote caverns, without the least dread of their old

enemy the fire-damp.
   Into the mines of foreign countries the Safety-

lamp has been introduced with similar success ; and
the illustrious discoverer has been repeatedly gra
tified by accounts of the enthusiasm with which
his invention has been adopted in various parts of

Europe.*

* A pamphlet appeared at Mons, in the year 1818, on the ex

plosions that occur in coal mines, and on the means of preventing
them by Davy's Safety-lamp. It was published under the direc

tion of the Chamber of Commerce and Manufactures of Mons,

accompanied by notes, and by the results of a series of experiments
that had been conducted by M. Gossart, President of the Cham

ber. The province of Hainault is said to be richer in coal mines

than any other part of the Continent of Europe, and to have no

less than one hundred thousand persons employed in the working
them. The same kind of dangerous accidents occurred in these

mines as in those of the North of England, and various expedients

had been    adopted for   their  pr"evAelnltitohne,   which, however, availed
but little  in obviating  them.                      precautions," observe the
reporters,
            " which had   been hitherto known or practised, had not

been able to preserve the unfortunate miners from the terrible

effects of explosion. It is therefore an inappreciable benefit which

we confer by making known the equally simple and infallible

method of preventing these accidents, which has been discovered

by the celebrated Humphry Davy."

   M. Gossart gives an ample and accurate detail of the properties
of the explosive gas, and confirms the truth of Davy's experiments,

by which the high temperature necessary for its inflammation,

and the consequent means of preventing by reducing that temit,

perature, as effected during its passage through wire-gauze, are

106 THE LIFE OF

    Nor is the utility of this invention limited to the
operations of mining. In gas manufactories, spirit
warehouses,* or druggists' laboratories, and in va
rious other situations, where the existence of an ex

plosive atmosphere f may expose persons to danger,

the Safety-lamp may be advantageously used ; and
as science proceeds in multiplying the resources of
art, this instrument will no doubt be found capable
of many new applications.

   By the permission of the President and Council
of the Royal Society, several accounts of these re
searches, and of the invention and use of the Safety-

lamp were printed, and circulated through the coal

districts.

   It might have been fairly expected that, in a dis

trict which had been so continually and so awfully

the mines of Flanders as in those of England. The Pamphlet is
a valuable document, inasmuch as it affords an independent proof
of the security of the instrument, and displays the high sense of
obligation which foreign nations entertain to Sir Humphry Davy

for his invention.
    * The danger of carrying a naked light into an atmosphere im

pregnated with the fumes of spirit was awfully exemplified by the
loss of the Kent East Indiaman, by fire, in the Bay of Biscay, on
the 1st of March 1825.

  fin cases where there is any suspicion of accumulations of car-

buretted hydrogen from the leakage of gas pipes, or from other
sources, the safety-lamp should always be employed. A terrible
accident occurred some years since at Woolwich, from a room
filled with the vapour of coal-tar, for the purpose of drying and
seasoning timber intended for ship-building. As the combustion

arose from the flame issuing through the flue, which ran along the
apartment, at the moment the damper was applied at the top of
the building, it is evident that, had a wire-gauze guard been used,
the accident could not have occurred. The house was completely

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  107

visited by explosions, against which no human fore

sight had as yet been able to provide a remedy, the
disinterested services of the greatest chemist of the
age would at least have been received without a dis
sentient voice, and that his invention of security
would have escaped the common fate of all great

discoveries, and been accepted with every homage
of respect and gratitude; but the inventor of the

Safety-lamp was doomed to encounter a bitter hosti
lity from persons whom a spirit of rivalry, or a feeling
of hopeless emulation, had cemented into a faction.

   From the period of the first announcement of the

Safety -lamp, a prejudice against its use was indus

triously circulated amongst the miners; and some

persons even maintained the monstrous proposition,
that any protection against the explosions of fire
damp would injure more than it could serve the
collier, by inducing him to resume abandoned works,

and thus continually to inhale a noxious atmosphere.
   The utility of the lamp having been established,

in spite of every opposition, the claims of Sir H.

Davy to its invention were next publicly chal

lenged.

  It will hereafter be scarcely believed that an in

vention so eminently philosophic, and which could

never have been derived but from the sterling trea

sury of science, should have been claimed in behalf
of an engine-wright of Killingworth, of the name of
Stephenson -- a person not even professing a know
ledge of the elements of chemistry. As the contro

versy to which this claim gave birth has long since
Isubsided,  would willingly have treated it as a

108 THE LIFE OF

circumstances, however, of the transaction stand

recorded in the Magazines of the day, and the bio
grapher of Davy would compromise his rights, by

omitting to notice the attempts that have been made

to invalidate them.

   The claims which were made for the priority of
Mr. Stephenson's invention of the Safety-lamp were
urged in several communications in the Newcastle

Courant. It has been said in reply, that if dates

were taken as evidence, not merely of priority, but
of originality of invention, it must follow that Mr.
Stephenson's lamp was derived from that of Sir H.
Davy. With regard to the first of Stephenson's
lamps, the only one upon which the shadow even of
a claim can be founded, it is unnecessary for the
friends of truth to adopt such a line of defence ; in
deed, after a deliberate examination of all that has

Ibeen published on the subject, am very willing to

believe that Mr. Stephenson did construct the lamp
which dates its origin from the 21st of October
1815, without any previous knowledge of the con
clusions at which Davy had arrived ; for it was first
announced to the Coal-trade by Mr. R. Lambert on
the 3rd of November, to the very meeting at which
Sir H. Davy's private letter was inadvertently read.
--But what were the principles, and what the con
struction of this lamp ?

  It would appear that Mr. Stephenson had enter

tained some vague notion of the practicability of
consuming the fire-damp as fast as it entered the

lamp, and that if admitted only in small quantities, it

would not explode the surrounding atmosphere : for

effecting this object, he constructed a lamp with an

    SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                               109

orifice, over which was placed a slide, by the move

ment of which the opening could be enlarged, or

diminished, and the volume of fire-damp to be ad

mitted into the lamp regulated according to circum

stances. Now such a lamp could be nothing else
than an exploding lamp ; for to make it burn in com

mon air, the orifice must have been so wide that, on

going into an explosive atmosphere, the combustion

                                        is

                                            a

                                               it,
in the interior could not have failed to pass and

to have exploded the mine. Here then    safety-

lamp, which as long as    safe, will not burn, and
                          it

                              is

                                    it
itthe moment begins to burn, becomes unsafe         !
   The testimonies in favour of the security afforded

by this lamp were evidently procured from persons
who were not only ignorant of the principles of its
construction, but of the methods to be pursued for

ascertaining its safety.  am surely justified in such
a

                     I

                                                                                       a

                                              I
statement, when, instead of an explosive mixture,

find them throwing in pure fire-damp, which will

always extinguish flame, whether burning in safe

or unsafe lamp.

   The importance and utility of Davy's lamp having

been completely established by the severest ordeals,
the general gratitude of the country began more

publicly to display itself, and very strong feeling
prevailed, that some tribute of respect should be

paid to its inventor in accordance with which,

deputation of the Coal-owners of the rivers Tyne
and Wear, and of the ports of Hartley and Blyth,
requested the honour of an interview with Sir H.
;
                                  ;
                                                    a

                                                                                     a
Davy upon which occasion they presented him

with the following letter, containing an expression
of the thanks of the Coal-owners.

110 THE LIFE OF

TO SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, LL.D. &C.

SIR,           Newcastle, March 25, 1816.

As chairman of the general meeting of proprie

tors of coal-mines upon the rivers Tyne and Wear,

Iheld in the Assembly-rooms at Newcastle, on the
18th instant,  was requested to express to you

their united thanks and approbation for the great

and important discovery of your Safety-lamp for ex

ploring mines charged with inflammable gas, which

they consider admirably calculated to obviate those

dreadful calamities, and the lamentable sacrifice of

human life, which of late years have so frequently
occurred in the mines of this country.

They are most powerfully impressed with admira

tion and gratitude towards the splendid talents and

brilliant acquirements that have achieved so mo

mentous and important a discovery, unparalleled in

the history of mining, and not surpassed by any dis

covery of the present age ; and they hope that,

whilst the tribute of applause and glory is showered

down upon those who invent the weapons of de

struction, this great and unrivalled discovery for

preserving the lives of our fellow-creatures, will be

Irewarded by some mark of national distinction and

honour. am, Sir,
      Your most obedient humble Servant,

                 George Waldie, Chairman.

  A plan, however, was under consideration for re

cording the admiration and gratitude of the Coal-

owners, by a more permanent and solid memorial.

The nature of this proposition will be best disclosed

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      Ill

             TO THE REV. DR. GRAY.

ISIR,        Wall's-End Colliery, August 27, 1816.

As know that you feel much interest in all
Imatters relating to Sir H. Davy's Safety-lamp,
Itrust you will excuse the liberty take in informing
you, that the Committee of the Tyne, approving
highly of the suggestion, that some mark of ac

knowledgment and respect should be presented to

Sir Humphry by the Coal-trade of this country, for

the happy invention of his lamp, have convened a

general meeting of Coal-owners, to be holden at my

office in Newcastle, on Saturday next the 31st in

stant, at twelve o'clock, to take the subject into

consideration.

   I should have sooner informed you of this pro

Iposed meeting, had not been detained in Cumber

Iland until yesterday ; but shall have the pleasure

Iof transmitting to you a copy of its resolutions.

     am sure that you will be gratified to learn that

the lamps continue to go on as well as possible.
IWe now have twelve dozen of them in daily use at
this place.  have the pleasure to remain, with the

greatest respect, Sir,

                 Your most obedient humble Servant,
                                          John Buddle.

             to the same.

I SIR,       Newcastle, September 7, 1816.

now have the pleasure of sending you a copy of

the Resolutions of the general meeting of Coal-

owners on the 31st instant, and shall take the liberty

112 THE LIFE OF

accompany me through the workings of a coal-pit at

Wall's-End, when I had an opportunity of witness
I Iing several interesting experiments on his Safety-

lamp ; and have the satisfaction to add, that
Ibelieve he has now advanced it to the highest degree
of perfection.  am, respectfully, Sir,

                Your humble Servant,
                 John Buddle.

   The satisfactory result of this visit Sir Humphry

Icommunicated to Mr. Lambton, now Lord Dur

ham ; and shall take this opportunity to state, that

Ifor this as well as for several other letters shall
Ihereafter have occasion to introduce, am indebted

to that noble Lord, through the kind application of
my friend Sir Cuthbert Sharp.

TO J. G. LAMBTON, ESQ. M. P.

I IMY DEAR SIR,
                Newcastle, September 9, 1816.

Since last had the pleasure of seeing you,

have examined the workings in the Wall's-End col

lieries by the lamps, and have tried them in various

Iexplosive mixtures.
   On Sunday, went with Mr. Buddle to your
blower, with the single lamps furnished with small
tin reflectors. This simple modification rendered

them perfectly safe, even in the furious blow-pipe,
and at the same time increased their light. No

thing could be more satisfactory than all the trials.

  I J.have left a paper in the hands of the Rev.
IHodgson, which will be printed in a day or two ;

and have desired him to send you ten copies, or as

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                    113

  I Itrust have now left nothing undone as to the

perfect security of the lamps, under every possible

circumstance.

  I Ifeel highly gratified that it was at your mines

effected the only object that remained to be accom

plished --that of guarding against blowers meeting
fresh currents of air.

   I thank you very sincerely for the interest you

have taken in the lamps, connected with my efforts

to render them applicable in all cases. I remain, &c.

                                                     H. Davy.

   On the 19th of October 1816, a                      letter  a"ppGeoasrfeodrthin,
the Durham County Advertiser,                          dated

August 22nd, 1816," in the name of Mr. W. Brand

ling, in which, alluding to the Resolutions of the

Coal-owners of the 31st of August, he expresses a

wish that a strict examination should take place

previous to the adoption of a measure which might

convey a decided opinion to the public, as to the

pSearfseotny-latmo pwhiosmactthueallyinvdauluea. ble"  discovery of the
                                                       The conviction,"
says he, " upon my mind is, that Mr. George Ste

phenson, of Killingworth Colliery, is the person

who first discovered and applied the principle upon

which safe lamps may be constructed ; for, whether

the hydrogen gas is admitted through capillary

tubes, or through the apertures of wire-gauze, which

Imay be considered as merely the orifices of capillary

tubes, does not, as conceive, in the least affect the

Ipri"ncIinpleth. e communications have seen from Sir H.

Davy, no dates are mentioned ; and it is by a refer-
VOL. II.  I

114 THE LIFE OF

ence to them only that the question can be fairly

decided. For the information of the Meeting,
Itherefore, shall take the liberty of enclosing some
Iwhich received from Mr. Stephenson, to the cor
IIrectness of which, as far as am concerned,
                                                              can
Ibear testimony ; at the same time beg leave to

add, that the principle of admitting hydrogen gas
Iin such small detached portions that it would be

consumed by combustion,* was, understand, stated

by him to several gentlemen, as the idea he had em

braced two months before his lamp was originally

constructed."

Mr. Brandling then proceeds to state, that the

Killingworth lamp, with a tube to admit the air,

and a slide at the bottom of such tube to regulate
the quantity to be admitted, was first tried in the

Killingworth pits on Saturday October the 21st,

1815 ; but not being found to burn well, another

was ordered the same day with three capillary tubes

to admit the air ; and on being tried in the mine on
the 4th of November following, was found to burn

better and to be perfectly sqfe.f On the 17th of
"November, it was tried $ at Killingworth office with
inflammable air before Richard Lambert, Esq. ; and

on the 24th of the same month, before C. J. Brand

ling, Esq. and Mr. Murray.

* Granted :-- but what connexion has that with the principle of

Davy's lamp, or with any Safety lamp ?
   It could not have been safe.
+  " Tried "--but how was it tried ? -- by  forcing  in pure  fire

I

damp, which will extinguish any lamp, instead of exposing the

flame to an explosive mixture, which could alone furnish any test
of its security.

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.    115

" On the 30th of November," he says, " a lamp

was tried in the mine, in which the air was admitted

by means of a double row of small perforations, and

found to be perfectly safe, and to burn extremely

well."*

  At an adjourned Meeting of the Coal-owners,
held on the 11th of October 1816, J. G. Lambton,
Esq. M.P. in the chair; Mr. William Brandling
moved-- "That the meeting do adjourn, until, by
a comparison of dates, it shall be ascertained whe

ther the merit of the Safety-lamp belongs to Sir
Humphry Davy or to Mr. George Stephenson."

   On the question being put thereon, the same

PASSED IN THE NEGATIVE.

  A great number of the Coal-owners, instead of

pursuing the idea which had at first been suggested,
of a general contribution on the vend, immediately
commenced a subscription of individual proprietors

of coal-mines ; a measure which, it was thought,

would express more distinctly and unequivocally
the opinion of the trade as to the merit of the in

vention. The plan is developed in the following

letter.

         TO THE REVEREND DR. GRAY.

ItSIR}         Wall's-End Colliery, October 27, 1816.

         is the anxious wish of almost every indi

vidual in the trade to compliment Sir Humphry

Davy, in that way which may be most grateful to

his feelings.

    Very likely : but the reader will please to recollect, that Sir
H. Davy had, before this, published an account of his principle of

               I2

116 THE LIFE OF

It has been suggested that the object will be best

attained by substituting an individual (colliery) sub

scription, instead of the proposed contribution on

the vend ; and it will at the same time show more

distinctly the real opinion of the trade as to the

merit of the invention.

This idea was not suggested till yesterday after

noon, and of course there has been but little time to

communicate it to the several Coal-owners ; but all

who have heard of the plan approve of it.
   To facilitate the business, the committee have

formed the annexed scale of contribution.!
       ** *              **#
I Itrust, Sir, you will excuse the trouble which
have given you on this subject; but I am aware

Ithat you must feel interested in it; and hope,
ISir, you will allow me to add, that am fully sen
sible of the obligation which the Coal trade is under

to yourself, for having drawn Sir H. Davy's atten

tion to that particular line of investigation, which

Ihas led to the important discovery of the Safety-
lamp.  am, Sir, with the greatest respect, your

most obedient humble servant,

                               John Buddle.

    Some slight alterations were afterwards made
in this scheme, in consequence of a wish having
been expressed that the Bishop of Durham and
the Duke of Northumberland should take the lead
in a subscription. The following letter conveys
some farther information upon this subject.

  t I have not thought it necessary to enumerate the various sums

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.     117

       TO THE REVEREND DR. GRAY.

j5Ul}       Newcastle, January 11, 1817.

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter

of the 9th instant, communicating the intention of

the Reverend the Dean and Chapter of Durham,

to subscribe fifty guineas towards the plate to be
presented to Sir H. Davy, which, together with
two hundred guineas from the Coal-owners of the

IWear, makes the subscription amount to nearly

1500, and shall expect some farther subscrip

tions.

  I am sure it will afford you satisfaction to learn

that the lamps still continue to give the most grati

fying proofs of the advantages resulting from their

invention, and that not a single inch of human

skin has been lost by fire, wherever they have

been used.

Sir Humphry has just made another important

improvement in the lamp, by constructing the cy

linder of twisted wire-gauze. Lamps thus con

structed, possess the singular property of not
becoming red-hot, under any circumstances of ex

Iposure to explosive mixtures, whether urged by a
blast, or in a state of rest.  am with great re

spect, Sir, your most obedient humble servant,

                                          John Buddle.

  It may be collected from the following letter,

that the Committee, in announcing to Sir H. Davy
the intended present of plate, delicately sounded
him as to the form in which it would be most

118 THE LIFE OF

     TO N. CLAYTON, ESQ.

SI^  Grosvenor Street, March 23, 1817.

  IOn my return to town, after an absence of some

days, found the letter of March the 13th, with

Iwhich you honoured me, at the Royal Institution.
   shall not lose a moment in replying to it, and in

expressing my grateful feelings for the very flatter

ing communication it contains.
The gentlemen interested in the coal-mines of the

Itwo rivers Tyne and Wear, cannot offer me any tes

timony of their kindness, which shall not receive

Iwith infinite pleasure.
      hardly know how to explain myself on the par

ticular subject of your letter ; but as the Committee

Iexpress themselves satisfied as to the utility of the

Safety-lamp, can only desire that their present, as

it is highly honourable to me, should be likewise

useful to my friends, and a small social circle, which

it would be as a dinner-service for ten or twelve

I Ipersons.
     wish that even the plate from which eat should

awaken my remembrance of their liberality, and put

me in mind of an event which marks one of the hap

Ipiest periods of my life.
      cannot find any language sufficiently strong to

express my thanks to the gentlemen for the manner

Iin which they have distinguished my exertions in
their cause, and in the cause of humanity.  have
                                H. Davy.
the honour to remain, &c.

  ITo revert once again to the faction -- for such

must denominate it--which, in opposition to the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            119

the unjust claims of Mr. Stephenson ; it would ap

pear from various letters in my possession, that the
feelings of Davy were greatly exasperated by this

Iungenerous conduct.

      shall introduce one of these letters, playful in
the midst of its wrath, addressed to Mr. Lambton,
the friend* of his youth, and the manly and kind
supporter of his scientific character, in the hour of

persecution.

TO J. G. LAMBTON, ESQ. M.P.

MY DEAR SIR,      Queen Square, Bath, Oct. 29, 1816.

The severe indisposition of my wife has altered

my plans. Your letter slowly followed me here.

  Mr. is one of the persons who, after I
had advanced a principle of security for a lamp,

I Icame upon the ground to endeavour to jockey me.
  was not looking to a prize, merely came forward

to show an animal, the breed of which might be
                  , Dr.
useful, when Mr.         , &c. brought their

sorry jades, which had never before been seen or

Iheard of, to kick at my blood mare.

      never heard a word of George Stephenson and

his lamps till six weeks after my principle of security

had been published ; and the general impression of

the scientific men in London, which is confirmed by

what I heard at Newcastle, is, that Stephenson had

some loose idea floating in his mind, which he had
unsuccessfully attempted to put in practice till after
my labours were made known ; --then, he made

   * It will be remembered that they resided together in the house
of Dr. Beddoes. See page 59, vol. i. of these memoirs. In the li

120 THE LIFE OF

something like a safe lamp, except that it is not safe,

for the apertures below are four times, and those

above, twenty times too large ; but, even if Stephen

son's plans had not been posterior to my principles,
still there is no analogy between his glass exploding

machine, and my metallic tissue, permeable to light

Iand air, and impermeable to flame.
       am very glad that you attended the meeting;
your conduct at no very distant period will be con

trasted with that of some great coal-proprietors, who

find reasons for their indifference, as to a benefit

conferred upon them, in insinuations respecting the

claims of Dr. Clanny, Mr. Stephenson, and others.
   Where men resolve to be ungrateful, it is natural

that they should be illiberal ; and illiberality often

Ihardens into malignity.
      shall receive any present of plate under your
auspices, and those of the Committee over which

you preside, with peculiar satisfaction. It will prove

to me that my labours have not been disregarded by

Imen of whose good opinion am proud.
  I hope you will not blame me for not taking any

notice of the attacks of my enemies in the North.

I have no desire to go out of my way to crush gnats

that buzz at a distance, and do not bite me, or to

quarrel with persons who shoot arrows at the moon,

and believe, because they have for an instant inter

Icepted a portion of her light, that they have hit their
mark.  am sensible to the circumstances under

Iwhich you attended the meeting.
      offer you my sincere congratulations, and ardent

wishes that you may enjoy all possible happiness.
                 H. Davy.
Believe me, &c.

       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          121

On the 13th of September 1817, Sir Humphry

Davy being expected to pass through Newcastle on
his return from Scotland, preparations were made,

and notice given of a dinner which it was proposed

should take place on the 25th instant, for the pur
pose of presenting to the illustrious philosopher the
service of plate which had been prepared for his

acceptance.

   Upon this gratifying occasion, a very large party
assembled at the Queen's Head, consisting of a nu
merous and respectable body of Coal-owners, and

such other gentlemen as had interested themselves

during the progress of the investigation, or taken an
active part in promoting the introduction of the

lamp into the mines.

   After the dinner had concluded, and certain toasts
of form had been drunk, Mr. Lambton, who filled

the chair on the occasion, rose, and on presenting

the service of plate to the illustrious guest, ad

dressed him, in a tone of great animation and feel

ing",  in nearly the following terms :  my  duty  to

       Sir Humphry, --It now becomes

fulfill the object of the meeting, in presenting to

you this service of plate, from the Coal-owners of
the Tyne and Wear, as a testimony of their gra

titude for the services you have rendered to them

and to humanity.

   " Your brilliant genius, which has been so long

employed in an unparalleled manner, in extending
the boundaries of chemical knowledge, never ac

complished a higher object, nor obtained a nobler

triumph.

   " You had to contend with an element of destruc

122 THE LIFE OF

tion which seemed uncontrollable by human power;
which not only rendered the property of the coal-

owner insecure, but kept him in perpetual alarm for

the safety of the intrepid miner in his service, and

often exhibited to him the most appalling scenes of

death, and heart-sickening misery.

   " You have increased the value of an important

branch of productive industry ; and, what is of in

finitely greater importance, you have contributed to
the lives and persons of multitudes of your fellow-

creatures.

  " It is now nearly two years that your Safety-

lamp has been used by hundreds of miners in the
most dangerous recesses of the earth, and under the

most trying circumstances. Not a single failure has

Ioccurred --its absolute security is demonstrated.

have, indeed, deeply to lament more than one ca

tastrophe, produced by fool-hardiness and ignorance,

in neglecting to use the safeguard you have sup

plied ; but these dreadful accidents even, if possible,

Ifexaltits importance.  needed   any thing  to make  it
         your fame had
   "

immortal, this discovery alone would have carried it

down to future ages, and connected it with benefits

and   blessings.  Sir  Humphry,  this  permanent  memo
      Receive,
   "

rial of our profound respect and high admiration --a

testimony, we trust, equally honourable to you and

to us. We hope you will have as much pleasure in

receiving, as we feel in offering it. Long may you
live to use it-- long may you live to pursue your
splendid career of scientific discovery, and to give

new claims to the gratitude and praise of the world !"

                       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                               123

Sir Humphry having received the plate, replied

Ias follows :

   " Gentlemen, -- feel it impossible to reply, in

an appropriate manner, to the very eloquent and

flattering address of your distinguished Chairman.

Eloquence, or even accuracy of language, is incom

patible with strong feeling ; and on an occasion like

the present, you will give me credit for no small

Ideg"ree   of emotion.  informed  that                     my labours  have

           have been

been useful to an important branch of human in

dustry connected with our arts, our manufactures,
commerce, and national wealth. To learn this from

such practical authority is the highest gratification

to a person whose ardent desire has always been to

app" lyIt  science to  purposes of utility.                invention   which
           has been    also stated, that the

you are this day so highly honouring, has been sub
servient to the preservation of the lives and persons

of a most useful and laborious class of men : this,

coming from your own knowledge, founded upon

such ample experience, affords me a pleasure still

more exalted --for the highest ambition of my life

has been to deserve     the name of a  friend to           humanity.
                        you have, as                       embodied
   " To crown all,                     it were,

Ithese sentiments in a permanent and magnificent
memorial of your good opinion.                             can make only

imp" eUrfnedcet randallinacdirecquumastetanecfefsortsofto  thank you.  life,
                                                           my future
the recollection of this day will warm my heart;

and this noble expression of your kindness will

awaken my gratitude to the latest moment of my

existence."

124 THE LIFE OF

   Sir Humphry having sat down, and the cheering

of the company subsided, the Chairman proposed
the health of the illustrious Chemist, in three times

Ithree.                                        "

   " Gentlemen,"
                    said  Sir  Humphry,           am over

powered by these reiterated proofs of your appro

bation. You have overrated my merits. My suc

cess in your cause must be attributed to my having

followed the path of experiment and induction dis

Icovered by philosophers who have preceded me :

willingly would divide your plaudits with other

men of science, and claim much for the general

glory of scientific discovery in a long course of

Iages.
   " Gentlemen, might dwell at some length upon

the great increase of wealth and power to the coun

try, within the last half century, by scientific inven

Ition, which never could have existed without coal

mines :-- shall refer only to the improvement in

the potteries, to the steam-engine, and to the dis

cov"eWryhoaft  the  gas lights.      has  the  steam-engine
               an   immense impulse

given to the arts and manufactures! How much

has it diminished labour, and increased the real

strength of the country, far beyond a mere increase

of population ! By giving facilities to a number of

other inventions, it has produced even a moral effect

in rendering capital necessary for the perfection
of labour, credit essential to capital, and ingenuity

and mental energy a secure and dignified species
of property.

   " Science, Gentlemen, is of infinitely more im

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   125

possible ; for no source of wealth and power can be

entirely independent of it ; and no class of men are

Iso well able to appreciate its advantages as that to

which am now addressing myself. You have not
only derived from it the means of raising your sub

terraneous wealth, but those also of rendering it

available to  the public.     pit-coal  such  an  instru
              alone has made
   " Science

ment in the hands of the chemist and mechanic ; it

has made the elements of fire and water perform

operations which formerly demanded human labour,

and it has converted the productions of the earth

into a thousand new forms of use and beauty.
   " Gentlemen, allow me to observe, in conclusion,

that it was in pursuing those methods of analogy

Iand experiment, by which mystery had become

science, that was fortunately led to the invention

of the Safety-lamp. The whole progress of my re
searches has been registered in the Transactions of

the Royal Society, in papers which that illustrious

Ibody has honoured by their biennial medal;* in

which can conscientiously assert, that I have grate

Ifully acknowledged even the slightest hints or offers
of assistance which  have received during their

Icom" possittaioten. this, Gentlemen, not from vain-glory,
but on account of certain calumnious insinuations
which have arisen -- not in the scientific world, for

Ito that the whole progress of my researches is well
known, but in a colliery.     must ever treat these

insinuations with contempt ; and after the honest

indignation which has been expressed against them

126 THE LIFE OF

Iby the Coal-owners in general, cannot feel any
Ianxiety on the subject, nor should have referred

Ito it at all, did not believe that the very persons

amongst whom these insinuations originated, were

extensively benefited by, and were constantly using

Ithe invention they would seek to disparage.

could never have expected that such persons would

have engaged their respectable connexions in mean
attempts to impeach the originality of a discovery,

given to them in the most disinterested manner,

and for which no return was required but an honest

acknowledgment of the benefit, founded upon truth

and justice.

  I" do not envy them their feelings, particularly

Iat the present moment : do not wish to enquire
Iinto their motives : do hope, however, that their

conduct has been prompted by ignorance rather

than by malevolence, by misapprehension rather

than   by ingratitude.           to me, that attempts

   "  It was a new circumstance

to preserve human life, and to prevent human mi

sery, should create hostile feelings in persons who

Ipro"feGsseendtletomehnav, e  similar objects in view.   much

                              have had some opposition,

labour, and more anxiety, during the course of these

researches ; but had the opposition, the labour, and

the anxiety been a thousand times as great, the
events of this day would have been more than a

compensation."

   Sir Humphry, after drinking the health and hap
p"inPerossspoerfittyhetocothmepaCnoya, l-tprraodpeo.s"ed as a sentiment --

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  127

Bishop of Durham, and the Reverend Dr. Gray,
were drunk in succession.

  At ten o'clock, Sir Humphry, accompanied by

the chairman, retired amidst the enthusiastic plau

dits of a meeting, the object of which being one of
convivial benevolence, the effect was that of un

clouded hilarity."
   The party which had supported the claims of

Mr. Stephenson had also their meeting; and it was

held on the 1st of November. At this meeting it

was resolved, " That it was the opinion of the persons
present, that Mr. G. Stephenson having discovered
the fact, that explosions of hydrogen gas will not
pass through tubes and apertures of small dimen

sions, and having been the first to apply the prin
ciple to the construction of a Safety-lamp, is en

titled to some reward."

  A committee was accordingly formed to carry

this resolution into effect, at the head of which was

placed the name of the Earl of Strathmore.
   The respectable body of Coal-owners, under whose

auspices the invention of Sir Humphry Davy had
been introduced and rewarded, felt that they owed
it to their own characters to repel assertions which
amounted to a charge against themselves of ingra

titude and injustice : a general meeting was accord

ingly summoned, at the Assembly-rooms in New

castle, on the 26th of November 1817, J. G. Lamb-

ton, Esq. M. P. in the chair -- when it was re

solved,

   " That the Resolutions passed at the Meeting of
the friends of Mr. G. Stephenson on the 5th instant,

128 THE LIFE OF

of a meeting of the Coal-trade on the S 1st of Au

gu"st   1816   :   present  meeting,                ,
                                      therefore, feel them
       That   the

selves called upon, as an act of justice to the cha

racter of their great and disinterested benefactor,

Sir Humphry Davy, and as a proof that the Coal-

trade of the North in no way sanctions the resolu
tions of Mr. Stephenson's friends, to state their de

cided conviction, that the merit of having discovered

the fact, that explosions of fire-damp will not pass
through tubes and apertures of small dimensions,

and of having applied that principle to the con
struction of a Safety-lamp, belongs to Sir Humphry

Da"vyThaalotnteh.is meeting is also decidedly of opinion,

from the evidence produced in various publications

by Mr. George Stephenson and his friends, subse
quently to the meeting of the Coal-trade which was

held on the 18th of March 1816, as well as from the

documents which have been read at this meeting,

that Mr. Stephenson did not discover the fact, that
explosions of fire-damp will not pass through tubes
and apertures of small dimensions ; and that he did
not apply that principle to the construction of a

Safety-lamp ; and that the latest lamps made by
Mr. Stephenson are evident imitations of those of

Sir Humphry Davy, and that, even with that ad

vantage, they are so imperfectly constructed as to be

actually unsafe.

   " That the above resolutions be published thrice

in the Newcastle papers, and in the Courier, Morn

ing Chronicle, and Edinburgh Courant ; and that

printed copies thereof be sent to the Lords Lieu

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,           129

tenants of the two counties, to the Lord Bishop of
Durham, and to the principal owners and lessors of
collieries upon the Tyne and Wear."

   The following letter from Sir Humphry Davy
announces the farther measures which he also had
thought proper to pursue, in order to counteract
the impression which the meeting of Mr. Stephen
son's friends might have produced on the less in- '
formed part of the public.

             TO J. G. LAMBTON, ESQ. M. P.

I shallMY DEAR SIR,  November 21, 1 8 1 7.

             send off by this post a copy of the reso
lutions, which will appear to-morrow in the Chroni

cle and Courier.

The men of science who have signed these resolu

tions are the first chemists and natural philosophers
of the country, with the President of the Royal
Society, the most illustrious body in Europe, at
their head.
It is disagreeable to be thus obliged to use artil
lery for the destruction of bats and owls ; but it

was necessary that something should be done.
The Messrs.
                     have for a long time been en

deavouring to destroy my peace of mind ; my of
fence being that of conferring a benefit.

  I IThe only persons knew in Newcastle, before

Igave the Safety -lamp to the Coal-owners, were Dr.

Headlam and Mr. Bigge, so that friends had none;

Iand the few persons with whom had a slight ac
Iquaintance, and who were civil to me before dis

covered the Safety-lamp, became my enemies. It

requires a deep metaphysician to explain this -- Can

130 THE LIFE OF

Iit be that did not make them the medium of com
Imunication to the colliers ? --But quit a subject to
Iwhich have no desire to return, and shall only re

collect that day when your eloquence touched my
feelings more than it flattered my self-love.

                                Believe me, &c. &c.

                                                     H. Davy.

   The following are the Resolutions of a Meeting
adverted to in the preceding letter, and which was
held " for considering the Facts relating to the Dis
covery of the Lamp of Safety."

                                                    Solio Square, Nov. 20, 1817.

" An advertisement having been inserted in the

Newcastle Courant, of Saturday, November 7, 1817,

purporting to contain the Resolutions of ' A Meet

ing held for the purpose of remunerating Mr. George

Stephenson, for the valuable service he has rendered

mankind by the invention of his Safety-lamp, which

is calculated for the preservation of human life in
             of the greatest
situations                              danger,'       produced    in
            have considered              the evidence
   " We

various publications by Mr. Stephenson and his

friends, in support of his claims ; and having ex

amined his lamps, and enquired into their effects
                                        are clearly of opinion --
in "exFpilrossti,v--e TmhiaxttuMrers.,                             the
                                        George Stephenson is not

author of the discovery of the fact, that an ex

plosion of inflammable gas will not pass through
tub"esSeacnodndalyp,er--tuTrehsatofMsmr.alGl edoimrgeensiSotnesp. henson was

not the first to apply that principle to the construe

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     131

tion of a Safety-lamp, none of the lamps which he
made in the year 1815 having been safe, and there
being no evidence even of their having been made
up"onThthiradtlyp,r--incTiphlaet. Sir Humphry Davy not only
discovered, independently of all others, and without
any knowledge of the unpublished experiments of
the late Mr. Tennant on Flame, the principle of
the non-communication of explosions through small

apertures, but that he has also the sole merit of

having first applied it to the very important pur
pose of a Safety-lamp, which has evidently been
imitated in the latest lamps of Mr. George Ste

phenson.

(Signed)  " Joseph Banks, P.R.S.

          " William Thomas Brande,
          " Charles Hatchett,
          " William Hyde Wollaston."

  IThus terminated a controversy, the discussion of

which, am well aware, many of my readers will

consider as having been protracted to a tedious, and
perhaps to an unnecessary extent ; but the biogra

pher had no alternative. In passing it by without

a notice, he would have violated his faith to the

public, have given a tacit acknowledgment of the
claims of Stephenson, and, in his judgment, have
committed an act of gross injustice to the illustrious
subject of his history ; while by giving only an
abridged statement, he would have furnished a pre
text for doubt, and an opportunity for malevolence.

   It is due also to Sir Humphry Davy to observe,

          K2

132 THE LIFE OF

nication of his results, the spirit of rivalry would
have expired without a struggle,--for it derived its
only support and power from the generosity of its
victim. Had he secured for himself the advantages

of his invention by patent, he might have realized

wealth to almost any extent ; but to barter the

products of his intellectual exertions for pecuniary
profit, was a course wholly at variance with every
feeling of Davy's mind ; and we therefore find him,
in the advancement, as at the commencement of his

fleeting career, spurning the golden apples from his

feet, and hastening to the goal for that prize which

could alone reward all his labours --the meed of

immortal fame.

From a letter dated Newcastle, August 1830,
Iwhich had the pleasure to receive from Mr. Bud
Idle,  extract the following interesting passage :--
     In the autumn of 1815, Sir Humphry Davy
   "

accompanied me into some of our fiery mines, to
prove the efficacy of his lamp. Nothing could be
more gratifying than the result of those experi

ments, as they inspired every body with perfect
confidence in the security which his invention had

afforded.

  I" Sir Humphry was delighted, and was over

powered with feelings of gratitude to that great

Igenius which had produced it.
   " felt, however, that he did not contemplate
any pecuniary reward; and, in a private conver

I Isation, remonstrated with him on the subject.

said, ' You might as well have secured this inven

tion by a patent, and received your five or ten thou

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.              133

sand a-year from it.' The reply of this great and

Inoble-minded man was,-- ' No, my good friend,

never thought of such a thing ; my sole object was
Ito serve the cause of humanity ; and, if have suc
Iceeded, am amply rewarded in the gratifying re
Iflection of having done so.'
                               expostulated, saying,

that his ideas were much too philosophic and refined

for the occasion. He replied, ' I have enough for

all my views and purposes ; more wealth might be

troublesome, and distract my attention from those
Ipursuits in which        delight ; -- more wealth,' he

added, ' could not increase either my fame or my

happiness. It might, undoubtedly, enable me to
put four horses to my carriage; but what would it
avail me to have it said that Sir Humphry drives

his carriage-and-four?'"

The present Bishop of Bristol, to whom the world

is so greatly indebted for having first called the
attention of Sir Humphry Davy to the subject of

explosions from fire-damp, and who has kindly in

terested himself in my arduous and anxious under

taking, was desirous to obtain for me the latest

accounts with respect to the Safety-lamp, as to the
constancy of its use, and the extent of its security ;

and his Lordship informs me, that having applied to

Mr. Buddle and Mr. Fenwick for information upon

these points, their answers have been most satisfac

tory ; at the same time, his Lordship transmitted
me much valuable information, which was accom

134 THE LIFE OF

TO THE RIGHT REVEREND THE LORD BISHOP
                              OF BRISTOL.

MY LORD,  Wall's-End, August 11, 1830.

  I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt

Iof your Lordship's letter of yesterday's date.

Iam glad your Lordship has interested yourself in

Doctor Paris's work, and hope that he will be

enabled, through the assistance of Sir Humphry's

friends, to do ample justice to the genius and worth

of that excellent man.

  I should be very happy if any letters of mine
Icould assist Dr. Paris in doing justice to his merits

in the invention of the Safety-lamp ; and shall

with pleasure submit to your Lordship's better
judgment and discretion the selection of such of

Ithem as may seem to be conducive to that object.
      do not find that any improvement whatever has

been made, either in the principle or construction of
the original lamp, as presented to us by Sir Hum
phry. His transcendent genius seems to have anti

cipated every thing belonging to the subject, and

Ihas left nothing more to be done.
                  have the honour to be,

              My Lord, with great respect,
Your Lordship's most obedient, humble servant,

                                      John Buddle.

  IIn consequence of some late reports of accidents in

the mines, requested my friend Sir Cuthbert Sharp

Ito make certain enquiries in the mining districts ;

and for this purpose, sent him a string of queries,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  135

questions were submitted to Mr. Buddle, and they
produced the following letter.

                     TO SIR CUTHBERT SHARP.

                                                     Newcastle, August 28, 1830.

  I MY DEAR SIR CUTHBERT,

      return Dr. Paris's letter, and shall briefly

Ifanswer his enquiries.

        the Davy lamp was exclusively used, and due
care taken in its management, it is certain that few
accidents would occur in our coal mines ; but the ex
clusive use of the "Davy" is not compatible with the
working of many of our mines, in consequence of
their not being workable without the aid of gun

powder.

   In such mines, where every collier must necessa

rily fire, on the average, two shots a-day, we are ex
posed to the risk of explosion from the ignition of

the gunpowder, even if no naked lights were used in

carrying on the ordinary operations of the mine.
   This was the case in Jarrow Colliery, at the time

the late accident happened. As the use of gunpow

der was indispensable, naked lights were generally
used, and the accident was occasioned by a ' bag' of
inflammable air forcing out a large block of coal, in
the face of a drift, from a fissure in which it had

been pent up, perhaps from the Creation, and firing
at the first naked light with which it came in contact,
after having been diluted down to the combustible
point by a due admixture of atmospheric air.

   As to the number of old collieries and old work
ings which have been renovated, and as to the quan

136 THE LIFE OF

public by the invention of the " Davy" it is scarcely

possible to give an account, or to form an estimate.

   In this part of the country, ' Walker's Colliery,'

after having been completely worked out, according
to the former system, with candles and steel-mills,
and after having been abandoned in 1811, was re

opened in 1818 by the aid of the "Davy" and has

been worked on an extensive scale ever since, and
may continue to be worked for an almost indefinite

period.

   Great part of the formerly relinquished workings
of Wall's-end, Willington, Percy-main, Hebburn,
Jarrow, Elswick, Benwell, &c. &c, as well as se
veral collieries on the Wear, have been recovered,
and are continued in work by the invention of the
" Davy."

  If I Ihad only what you know perfectly well have
Inot--Time, could write a volume on this subject.

  I shall shortly, through the medium of a friend,

get an important paper on the subject of the " Davy"
put into Dr. Paris's hands.

          Believe me, my dear Sir Cuthbert,
                   To remain yours very faithfully,

                                        John Buddle.

   The Bishop of Bristol has placed at my dispo
sal a communication from Mr. Fen wick, a gentle
man of much practical ability, which affords addi
tional evidence of the utility of the lamp ; from
which the following is an extract.

   " Sir H. Davy's safety-lamp has afforded much

security in the general working of mines, particu

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  187

situations, the pillars of coal formerly left therein,
which, under the system of working by candles,

or open flame, was deemed hazardous and imprac

ticable ; and, in consequence, one-sixth part more
of coal may be estimated as obtainable from those
mines which are subject to hydrogen gas. Also
in the working of the pillars of coal, (commonly

called the second working,) great advantages and
securities, as well as saving of expenses, have re
sulted from the use of this lamp, not only to the
lessees of collieries, inasmuch as more coal is ob

tained from a given space than before, (particularly
in collieries subject to fire-damp,) but also to the
lessor of such mines, by their being more productive,
and of course more durable than heretofore.

   " Another advantage results from the use of this
 Safety-lamp, and in the working of the pillars in

particular. It is found now, through experience,

that the changeable state of the atmosphere, which

our barometers daily indicate, has a most powerful
effect on the noxious air in mines ; as, from a

sudden change in the atmosphere, indicated by the
rapid fall of the mercury in the barometrical tube, a
rapid discharge of noxious gas into the workings
and excavations of the mine is the consequence,
 caused by the want of the atmospheric equilibrium :*

 in which case the mine becomes suddenly surcharg

ed with hydrogen, and if worked by the light of

 open flame, an explosion may take place before the
 possibility of such a circumstance can even be sus

pected ; but if worked by the Safety-lamp, it is

   * This is a very interesting fact, and gives much support to the
theory advanced at page 62 of thi3 volume.-

138 THE LIFE OF

only shown by the gas in the lamp becoming a
pillar of harmless flame. This circumstance fre

quently takes place when any atmospheric change
causes the mercury in the barometer to sink to
twenty-eight inches and a half or thereabouts."

   In the year 1825, Sir Humphry Davy had the
honour to receive from the Emperor Alexander of

Russia, a superb silver gilt vase, standing in a cir

cular tray enriched with medallions. On the cover
was a figure, of about sixteen or eighteen inches in
height, representing the God of Fire, weeping over

his extinguished torch.
   The circumstances under which this vase was pre

sented have been communicated to me by Mr. Smir-

nove, Secretary to the Embassy.

              TO J. A. PARIS, M. D.

It DEAR SIR,  Wigmore Street, May 29, 1830.

was in the month of April, or May, 1815, that

the late Sir Humphry Davy expressed to Prince,

then Count, Lieven, his wish to offer to the Em

peror of Russia a model of his Safety-lamp, which he

had recently improved, accompanied by an explana

tory pamphlet on the subject.
   Prince Lieven of course complied with this re

quest; and the Emperor having been pleased to

accept it, ordered the Ambassador, in November of
the same year, to thank Sir Humphry for it in his

Majesty's name, and to assure him how much his
Majesty appreciated the merit of an invention, the
double effect of which was to favour the progress of
more than one branch of industry, and to ensure the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                        139

those fatal accidents which had hitherto so frequently
occurred. The Ambassador, at the same time, de

livered to Sir Humphry a silver-gilt Vase,* in the
name of the Emperor, in testimony of the high satis
faction with which that sovereign
to accept the object in question.  hI abdegbeyeonuplteoasbeed

lieve me, with regard and esteem,
Your faithful servant,

                            John Smirnove.

It is well known to the friends of Davy, that in

his conversation as well as in his correspondence, he

always dwelt with peculiar satisfaction and delight

upon the invention of his Safety-lamp.
   Mr. Poole, in

Iserves-- " How
a letter lately addressed               to me,           ob
often have heard him                    express          the
Isatisfaction which this discovery had given him. '
Ivalue it,' said he, ' more than any thing ever did.
It was the result of a great deal of investigation and
labour ; but, if my directions be only attended to, it

will save the lives of thousands of poor labourers.

II was never more affected,' he added, ' than by a

written address which received from the working

Icolliers, when was in the North, thanking me, in

Ibehalf of themselves and their families, for the pre
servation of their lives.'  remember how delighted

he was when he showed me the service of plate
presented to him by those very men and their

employers, as a testimony of their gratitude."

The following letter evinces a similar feeling.

* Of the value of about one hundred and eighty guineas.

140 THE LIFE OF

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

  ItMY DEAR POOLE, Queen's Square, Bath, Oct. 29, 1816.
         is very long since any letters have passed be

tween us. The affections and recollections of friend

Ily intercourse are of a very adhesive nature ; and

think you will not be displeased at being put in

mind that there is an old friend not very far from

Iyou, who will be very glad to see you.    remain
   Bath does not suit me much, nor should

here, but my wife has been indisposed, and the

****** Iwaters seem to benefit her, and promise to render

her permanent service, and if that happens, shall

Ibe pleased even with this uninteresting city.
       have seen many countries and nations since we

met.
  I have just come from the North of England,

where it has pleased Providence to make me an in

Istrument for preserving the lives of some of my fel

low-creatures. You, know, are of that complexion
of mind that the civic crown will please you more

Ithan even the victor's laurel wreath.
      have a bed, though a small one, at your service ;

Iif you can come here for two or three days, assure
Iyou we shall be most happy to see you. We shall
remain in Bath about three weeks.  shall be ab

Isent for a few days in the beginning of next week,

and after that shall be stationary till the middle of

November. Give me a few lines, and say when we

may expect you.

         I am, my dear Poole, very sincerely yours,
                                                        H. Davy.

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

         TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE,             Grosvenor Street, Dec. 3, 1817.

The late melancholy event * has thrown a gloom
over London, and indeed over England. The pub
lic feeling is highly creditable to the moral tone of

the people.

   The loss of a Princess, known only by good
qualities, living in a pure and happy state of do

mestic peace, is in itself affecting ; but when it is
recollected that two generations of sovereigns of

the first people in the world have been lost at

the same moment, the event becomes almost an

Iawful one.                                   I am
      go on always labouring in my vocation.

now at work on a subject almost as interesting as

Ithe last which undertook. It is too much to hope

Ifor the same success ; at least will deserve it.
When you come to town in the spring, which I
Itrust you will do, shall show you my service of
Iplate.  do not think you will like it the less for

I Ithe cause of the gift.   shall not take a run
       am not sure whether

down to Nether Stowey and the west for a few

days, if you encourage me with any hopes of the

Iestatef and of woodcocks. You will fix my plans.
      shall be disengaged between the 15th and Christ

mas, and shall like to revisit Lymouth, and above all

to shake you by the hand.

   * The death of the Princess Charlotte.

  t He here alludes to an estate in the neighbourhood of Nether

Stowey, which he wished to purchase, and about which he had re

a it                                                                                142 THE LIFE OF

    *                                                                                 ILady D. is in better health than have ever known
                                                                                    Iher to possess. She begs her kind remembrances.
      A
                                                                                          am, my dear Poole, most affectionately yours,
      is,I
                                                                                                                                     H. Davy.
                     a
                                 a                                                     In a strictly scientific point of view, the most in
                                                                                    teresting results which have arisen out of the inves
                                                 ;
                                                                                   ;tigation for constructing a Safety -lamp, are perhaps
                                                                                    those which have made us better acquainted with the
                                                                                a;  true nature of flame, and the circumstances by
                                                                                    which it is modified ; and which have led to some
                                                                                    practical views connected with the useful arts.

                                                                                       It think, impossible to enter into the details

                                                                                    of those curious investigations* which, under the
                                                                                    title of " Some Researches on Flame," were commu

                                                                                    nicated to the Royal Society, and read before that
                                                                                    body on the 16th of January 1817, without being
                                                                                    forcibly struck with the address by which Davy, in
                                                                                    the first instance, brought abstract science to pro
                                                                                    mote and extend practical knowledge and then, as

                                                                                       were by species of multiplied reflection, applied
                                                                                    the new facts thus elicited for the farther extension
                                                                                    of speculative truth which in its wider range be
                                                                                    came again instrumental in disclosing fresh store of

                                                                                    useful facts. It may be said to have been the power

                                                                                    of dexterously combining such methods which con
                                                                                    stituted the felicity of his genius for, in general,
                                                                                    each of them requires for its successful application

                                                                                       mind of quite distinct order and construction.
                                                                                    Mr. Babbage has very justly observed, that those
                                                                                    intellectual qualifications which give birth to new

                                                                                               short notice of them first appeared in the third number of the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  143,

principles or to new methods, are of quite a different
order from those which are necessary for their prac
tical application. Davy furnished the exception
that was necessary to make good the rule.

   He detects, in the first instance, the general prin
ciple of inflammable gas, in a state of combustion,

being arrested in its progress by capillary tubes ; he
next applies it to the construction of a Safety-lamp,
and then, by observing the phenomena which this

Ilamp exhibits, is led to novel views respecting the

nature and properties of flame. -- shall endeavour
to offer a popular view of the curious and interest

ing truths disclosed by this latter research.
   He had observed that, when the coal gas burnt in

the iron cage, its colour was pale, and its light
feeble; whereas the fact is rendered familiar to us
all by the flame of the gas lights, that in the open
air carburetted hydrogen burns with great brilliancy.
Upon reflecting on the circumstances of the two
species of combustion, he was led to believe that the
cause of the superiority of the light in the latter
case might be owing to a decomposition of a part of
the gas towards the interior of the flame, where the
air was in the smallest quantity ; and that the conse
quent deposition of charcoal might first by its igni
tion, and afterwards by its combustion, contribute to

this increase of light. A conjecture which he im

mediately verified by experiment.*

    This theory of Davy is well illustrated by the change produced
in the flame of gas-light, when acted upon by the wind, as may be
seen during an illumination. The loss of light under these circum

stances evidently arises from the more rapid combustion of the gas,

by its more complete admixture with air ; in consequence of which

 the decomposition above described does not take place.

144 THE LIFE OF

   The intensity therefore of the light of flames de

pends principally upon the production and ignition
of solid matter in combustion, so that heat and light

are in this process independent phenomena.
   These facts, Davy observes, appear to admit of

many applications; in explaining, for instance, the
appearance of different flames --in suggesting the
means of increasing or diminishing their light, and
in deducing from their characters a knowledge of
the composition of their constituent parts.

   The point of the inner blue flame of a candle or

lamp urged by the blow-pipe, where the heat is the
greatest and the light the least, is the point where
the whole of the charcoal is burnt in its gaseous com
binations, without previous ignition. The flames of
phosphorus and of zinc in oxygen, and that of potas
sium in chlorine, afford examples of intensity of
light depending upon the production of fixed solid
matter in combustion ; while on the contrary, the fee
bleness of the light of those flames, in which gaseous

and volatile matter is alone produced, is well illus
trated by those of hydrogen and sulphur in oxygen,
or by that of phosphorus in chlorine.

   From such facts, he is inclined to think that the
luminous appearance of shooting stars and meteors
cannot be owing to any inflammation of gas, but
must depend upon the ignition of solid matter. Dr.
Halley calculated the height of a meteor at ninety
miles, and the great American meteor, which threw
down showers of stones, was estimated at only seven
teen miles high. The velocity of the motion of such

bodies must in all cases be immensely great, and the
heat thus produced by the compression of the most

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  145

rarefied air, Davy thinks, must be sufficient to ig
nite the mass ; and that all the phenomena may be
explained by assuming that falling stars are small
solid bodies moving round the earth in very eccen

tric orbits, which become ignited only when they
pass with immense velocity through the upper re
gions of the atmosphere, and which, when they con
tain either combustible or elastic matter, throw out

stones with explosion.
   By the application of such a principle did he also

infer the composition of a body from the character
of its flame : thus, says he, Ether, during its com
bustion, would appear to indicate the presence of
olefiant gas. Alcohol burns with a flame similar to
that of a mixture of carbonic oxide and hydrogen ;
so that the first is probably a binary compound of
olefiant gas and water, and the second of carbonic

oxide and hydrogen.
    When the proto-chloride of copper is introduced

into the flame of a candle or lamp, it affords a pecu
liar dense and brilliant red light, tinged with green

and blue towards the edges, which seems to depend
upon the separation of the chlorine from the copper
by the hydrogen, and the ignition and combustion
of the solid copper and charcoal.

    The acknowledged fact of the brightest flames

yielding the least heat is easily reconciled, when
we learn that the light depends upon fixed matter

which carries off the heat. It is equally obvious,

that by art we may, for practical purposes, easily

modify these phenomena.

   In the next place, having observed that wire-

146 THE LIFE OF

point, he was led to enquire into the nature of pure
flame ; and he readily demonstrated it to be gaseous

matter heated so highly as to be luminous ; and that

the temperature necessary for such an effect was

much greater than had been imagined, varying,
however, in different cases. The flame of a com

mon lamp he proved, by a very simple experiment,
to exceed even the white heat of solid bodies, and

which is easily shown by the simple fact of heating

a piece of platinum wire over the chimney of an
Argand lamp fed with spirit of wine ; when it will
be seen that air, which is not of sufficient tem

perature to appear luminous, is still sufficiently hot

to impart a white heat to a solid body immersed

in it.

   The fact of different gaseous bodies requiring dif
ferent degrees of heat to raise them into flame, was

an inference immediately deducible from  the  phe
                                         one  hun
nomena of his safety gauze. A tissue of

dred apertures to the square inch, made of wire of
one-sixtieth, will, at common temperatures, inter
cept the flame of a spirit-lamp, but not that of
hydrogen ; and, when strongly heated, it will no

longer arrest the flame of the spirit-lamp. A

tissue which, when red-hot, will not interrupt the
flame of hydrogen, will still intercept that of de
fiant gas ; and a heated tissue, which would com

municate explosion from a mixture of olefiant gas
and air, will stop an explosion of fire-damp. For
tunately for the success of the Safety-lamp, carbu-

retted hydrogen requires so high a temperature to
carry on its combustion, that even metal, when

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  147

 in sufficient quantity, and of the proper degree of
fineness, will abstract heat enough from the flame

 to extinguish it.
    The discovery of the high temperature which is

necessary for the maintenance of flame, suggested
to the philosopher the reason of its extinction under
various circumstances. He considers, that the com

mon operation of blowing out a candle principally
depends upon the cooling power of the current of

air projected into the flame ;* and he observes, that

the hottest flames are those which are least easily

blown out. He farther illustrated this subject by
surrounding a very small flame with a ring of metal,
which had the effect of cooling it so far as to extin
guish it ; but a ring of glass, of similar dimensions
and diameter, being a less perfect conductor of heat,

produced no such effect.

   It had been long known that flame ceased to

burn in highly rarefied air ; but the degree of rare
faction necessary for this effect had been very dif
ferently stated. The cause of the phenomenon was
generally supposed to depend upon a deficiency of

oxygen.

   In the commencement of his enquiry into this
subject, Davy observed that the flame of hydrogen
gas, the degree of rarefaction and the quantity of
air being the same, burnt longer when it issued

from a larger than a smaller jet, -- a fact the very
reverse of that which must have happened had the

   * Quere. Is this theory correct ? May not the effect be mecha
nical, the appulse of the air separating the flame from the wick. --
Upon the principle suggested by Davy, how are we to explain the
fact of rekindling the flame by a blast ?

                                      L2

148 THE LIFE OF

flame expired for want of oxygen ; he moreover

observed, that when the larger jet was used, the
point of the glass tube became white-hot, and con
tinued red-hot till the flame was extinguished : he

therefore concluded, that the heat communicated to

the gas by this tube was the cause of its protracted

combustion, and that flame expired in rarefied air,
not for want of nourishment from oxygen, but for
ifwant of heat, and that  its temperature could be

preserved by some supplementary aid, the flame might
be kept burning. The experiment by which he con

firmed this theory was as beautiful as it was satis

factory.

   He burnt a piece of camphor in a glass tube,
under the receiver of an air-pump, so as to make

the upper part of the tube red-hot; its inflamma

tion was found to continue when the rarefaction

was nine times; but by repeating the experiment

in a metallic tube, which could not be so consider

ably heated by it, it ceased after the rarefaction ex

ceeded six times.

  It follows then that by artificially imparting

heat,* bodies may be made to burn in a rarefied air,

when under other circumstances they would be ex

tinguished.

The following may be considered as an experi-

    " It is upon this principle that, in the Argand lamp, the Li

verpool lamp, and in the best fire-places, the increase of effect

does not merely depend upon the rapid current of air, but likewise

upon the heat preserved by the arrangement of the materials of

the chimney, and communicated to the matters entering into in
flammation." The art of making a good fire depends also upon
the same principle of economising the heat.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  149

mentum cruets, in proof of the fact that combusti
bility is neither increased nor diminished by rare
faction.

   He introduced the flame of hydrogen, in which
was inserted a platinum wire, into a receiver of rare

fied air, and he found that, as long as the metal re
mained at a dull red-heat, the flame continued to
burn : now it so happens that the temperature, at
which platinum approaches a red-heat, is precisely
that at which hydrogen inflames under the or
dinary pressure of the atmosphere ; whence it fol
lows, that its combustibility is not altered by rare

faction.

   The same law was found to apply to the flames
of other bodies ; those requiring the least heat for

their combustion always sustaining the greater rare

faction without being extinguished.*
   Hitherto he had only considered the effects of

rarefaction, when produced by the diminution of
pressure ; he had next to investigate the pheno
mena of rarefaction when occasioned by expansion

from heat.

   The experiments of M. de Grotthus had appa

rently shown that rarefaction by heat destroys the
combustibility of gaseous mixtures ; those of Davy,

however, proved that it enables them to explode at

a lower temperature.

   * From a calculation of the ratio in which the density of the at
mosphere decreases with its altitude, and from that of the relative
combustibility of different bodies, it follows that the taper would be
extinguished at a height of between nine and ten miles -- hydrogen,
between twelve and thirteen -- and sulphur, between fifteen and

sixteen.

150 THE LIFE OF

   In the progress of this research, while passing

mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen through heated
tubes, the heat being still below redness, he ob
served that steam was formed without any com

bustion.

Here was a slow combination without combustion,

as long since observed with respect to hydrogen and
chlorine, and oxygen and metals ; and he believes

that such a phenomenon will happen at certain tem

peratures with most substances that unite by heat.
On trying charcoal, he found that at a temperature
which appeared to be a little above the boiling
point of quicksilver, it converted oxygen pretty
rapidly into carbonic acid, without any luminous

appearance, and that, at a dull red- heat, the elements
of olefiant gas combined in a similar manner with

oxygen, slowly and without explosion.

  It occurred to Davy, in the progress of these ex

periments, that, during this species of slow combi
nation, although the increase of temperature might
not be sufficient to render the gaseous matters lumi
nous, or to produce flame, it might still be adequate

to ignite solid matters exposed to them. It was

while engaged in devising experiments to ascertain
this fact, that he was accidentally led to the disco
very of the continued ignition of platinum wire,
during the slow combination of coal gas with atmo
spheric air ; the circumstances of which have been

already related, as well as the curious invention to
which
        the application of the fact gave origin.*
   For  this and his preceding papers on the subjects

                                     SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.          151

of flame and combustion, the President and Council
of the Royal Society adjudged to Sir Humphry
Davy the gold and silver medals, on the donation

of Count Rumford ;* and never, I will venture say,

did a society in awarding a prize more faithfully
comply with the intentions of its founder.

   On the completion of these laborious enquiries, it

was thought expedient to give a wider circulation
to their results than the publication of them in the

Philosophical Transactions was calculated to afford ;
and Sir Humphry Davy was therefore induced to re

print his principal memoirs, so as to form an octavo

* At the Anniversary of the Royal Society, November 1796,

Count Rumford transferred one thousand pounds, Three per Cent.
Consols, to the use of the Society, on condition that a premium
should be biennially awarded to the author of the most important
discovery, or useful invention, made known in any part of Europe

during the preceding two years, on the subject of Heat and
Light. In regard to the form in which this premium was to be

conferred, he requested that it might always be given in two

medals, struck in the same die, the one of gold, and the other of

silver.

Should not any discovery or improvement be made during any

terms of years, he directed that the value of the medals should be

reserved, and being laid out in the purchase of additional stock,

go in augmentation of the capital of this premium.

Medals upon this foundation have been successively voted to

wProorfkesseonrtitlLeedslie",   for   his Experiments on Heat,  published in his
                               An    Experimental Enquiry into  the Nature and

tPiroonpe"rtOiens  of   Heat ;"--To  Mr. William Murdoch,       for his publica
                                     of Gas and Coal for the    purpose of Illu
                   the  Employment

mination ;"-- to M. Malus, for his discoveries of certain new pro
perties of reflected light;-- to Dr. Wells, for his Essay on Dew; --
to Sir Humphry Davy, as above stated ;-- to Dr. Brewster, for his

Optical Investigations ;-- and, lastly, to Mr. Fresnel, for his optical

152 THE LIFE OF

volume,* which might be accessible to the practical

parts of the community.

The enlightened friends of science very reasonably

expected that a service of such importance to so

ciety as the invention of the Safety-lamp, would

have commanded the gratitude of the State, and ob

tained for its author a high parliamentary reward ;

nor were there wanting zealous and disinterested

persons to urge the claims of the Philosopher : but a

Government which had bestowed a splendid pension
upon the contriver of an engine * for the destruction
of human life, refused to listen to any proposition

for the reward of one who had invented a machine

for its preservation. It is true that, in considera

tion of various scientific services, they tardily and

inadequately acknowledged the claims of Davy, by
bestowing upon him the dignity of Baronetcy }--a
reward, it must be confessed, that neither displayed

any regard to his condition, nor implied the just es
timate of his merits. The measure of value, how

ever, enables us to judge of the standard by which

the State rates the various services to society ; and
deeply is it to be lamented that the disproportioned
exaltation of military achievement, crowned with

the highest honours, depresses respect for science,

and raises a false and fruitless object of ambition.

  The passion for arms is a relict of barbarity de

* " On the Safety-lamp for Coal Mines, with some Researches

on Flame.-- London, 1818."

t Sir William Congreve, in addition to other marks of favour,

received a pension  of twelve  hundred   a-year, for  the invention of
his Rocket; or, in  the exact  terms of  the grant,
                                                      " for inventions

calculated to destroy or annoy the enemy."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.       153

rived from the feudal ages ; the progress of civi
lization, and the cultivation of the mind, should

have led us to prefer intellectual to physical supe

riority, and to recognise in the successes of science
the chief titles to honour. This reversal of the ob

jects of importance can never be redressed until the
aristocracy shall be possessed of a competent share
of scientific knowledge, and instructed to appreciate
its value. To effect such a change, the system of

education so blindly and obstinately continued in

our great public schools, must be altered ; for

minds exclusively applied to classical pursuits, and

trained to recognise no other objects of liberal study,

are indisposed and indeed disqualified for enquiries

ministering to the arts of life, and arrogantly de

spised for their very connexion with utility. It is

in the early ignorance of the rudiments of science

that the after negligence of science has its source.

IThe instances in proof of the extent of the igno
rance and indifference  have noted, and of their

pernicious effects upon the most important interests

of society, especially legislation, and the administra
tion of justice, are abundant. In Parliament, how

is a question of science treated ? In our courts of

law, and criminal investigation, it is lamentable to

observe the frequent defeat of justice, arising from

erroneous conception, or from the utter absence of

the requisite knowledge. In the ordinary affairs

of life, we see conspicuous, amongst the dupes of

quackery and imposture, those whose stations should

imply the best instruction, and whose conduct, un

154 THE LIFE OF

the well-springs of truth, is rapidly rising against
this exalted ignorance ; the industrious classes of
society are daily becoming more imbued with know

ledge upon scientific subjects, and the nobility, if

they would preserve their superiority in social con
sideration, must descend to the popular improve
ment.

  IBefore concluding the present chapter, must

carry back my history to the year 1815, for the
purpose of recording a circumstance in the life of
Davy, which, while it exemplifies his general love
of science, evinces the local attachment he retained
for the town of his birth.

    In the year 1813, the Geological Society of
Cornwall was established at Penzance. Its objects
are to cultivate the sciences of Mineralogy and
Geology, in a district better calculated perhaps for
such pursuits than any other spot in Europe, -- to

register the new facts which are continually pre
senting themselves in the mines, and to place upon
permanent record, the history of phenomena which
had hitherto been entrusted to oral tradition ; but,
above all, its object was to bring science in alliance
with art ; to prevent the accidents which had so
frequently occurred from explosion in the opera
tion of blasting rocks ; and, in short, to render all
the resources of speculative truth subservient to the
ends of practical improvement.

   No sooner had the establishment of so useful an
institution been communicated to Davy, than he
testified his zeal for its welfare by a handsome do

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       155

nation to its funds ; which was followed by a pre
sent of a very extensive suite of specimens, illus
trative of the volcanic district of Naples, and which

had been collected by himself. He also afterwards

communicated to the Society a memoir on the Geo-

logy of Cornwall, which has been published in the

first volume of its Transactions.

   In this paper, he discusses several of the more
difficult questions connected with the origin of

veins.

He first observed the granitic veins, which have

called forth so much attention from geologists,

about the year 1797 ; probably before they had ex

cited much scientific notice : he is disposed to regard

them as peculiar to the low metalliferous granite

and mica formations ; he had seen several cases

of granite veins near Dublin, in the Isle of Arran,
and in other parts of Scotland ; he had also ob

served several instances near Morlaix in Brittany,

but he had in vain searched for them in the points

of junction of the schist and granite, both in the

Maritime, Savoy, Swiss, and Tyrolese Alps, and

likewise in the Oriental Pyrenees.

The serpentine district of Cornwall, he thinks,       has

not yet met   with the attention    it  "  deserves.  "I
have seen no  formation," says he,
                                           in which   the

nature of serpentine is so distinctly displayed. The

true constituent parts of this rock appear to be re

splendent hornblende and felspar ; it appears to differ

from sienite only in the nature of the hornblende,

and in the chemical composition of its parts, and in
being intersected by numerous veins of steatite and

calcareous spar."

156 THE LIFE OF

The nature and origin of the veins of steatite in

serpentine,  he considers   as offering   a very curious
subject for                Were they      originally crys
             enquiry. "    the result of  chemical depo
tallized," he asks, " and

sition ? or have they been, as for the most part they

are now found, mere mechanical deposits ?" He is
inclined to the latter opinion. The felspar in ser

pentine, he observes, is very liable to decomposition,
probably from the action of carbonic acid and water

on its alkaline, calcareous, and magnesian elements ;

and its parts washed down by water and deposited
in the chasms of the rocks, he thinks would neces

sarily gain that kind of loose aggregation belonging

to steatite.

   He had some years before made a rude, compara
tive analysis of the felspar in serpentine, and of the

soap-rock, when he found the same constituents in

both of them, except that there was not any alkali

or calcareous earth in the latter substance. It is

very difficult to conceive, he says, that steatite was

originally a crystallized substance which has been

since decomposed ; for, in that case, it ought to be

found in its primitive state in veins which are ex

cluded from the action of air and water ; whereas it

is easy to account for the hardness of some species
of steatite on the former hypothesis ; for mere me

chanical deposits, when very finely divided, and very

slowly made, adhere with a very considerable degree

of force. A remarkable instance of this kind oc

curred to him amongst the chemical preparations of
the late Mr. Cavendish, which, on the decease of

that illustrious philosopher, had been presented to

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.           157

which had originally contained a solution of silica

by potash ; the cork, during the lapse of years, had
become decayed, and the carbonic acid of the at

mosphere had gradually precipitated the earth, so

that it was found in a state of solid cohesion ; the

upper part was as soft as the steatite, but the lower

portion was extremely hard, was broken with some

difficulty, and presented an appearance similar to
that of chalcedony.

   In speaking generally of the mineralogical inte
rest of Cornwall, he observes, that " it may be re
garded, kqt $oj(t)v, as the country of veins ; and that
it is in veins that the most useful as well as the

most valuable minerals generally exist, that the

pure specimens are found which serve to determine

the mineralogical species, and that the appearances

seem most interesting in their connexion with geo
logical theory. Thus veins, which now may be
considered in the light of the most valuable cabinets
of nature, were once her most active laboratories;

and they are equally important to the practical

miner, and to the mineralogical philosopher.

With regard to the general conformation of Corn
wall, he states it to be in the highest degree curious,

and he considers that the facts which it offers are

illustrative  of  many important points of geological
                  exhibits very extraordinary instances
theory. "     It

of rocks broken in almost every direction, but prin

cipally from east to west, and filled with veins again

broken in, diversified by cross lines, and filled with

other veins, and exhibiting marks of various suc

cessive phenomena of this kind.

158 THE LIFE OF

in the primary strata, and the power by which they

were filled with stony and metallic matter, it would

be easy to speculate, but very difficult to reason by

legitimate philosophical induction."

   In the concluding passage, however, he very free

ly admits his preference for the doctrine of fire.

   " It is amongst extinct volcanoes, the surfaces of

which have been removed by the action of air and
water, and in which the interior parts of strata of

lavas are exposed, that the most instructive examples

of the operation of slow cooling upon heated masses

are to be found. It is difficult to conceive that water

could have been the solvent of the different granitic

and porphyritic formations ; for, in that case, some

combinations of water with the pure earths ought to

be found in them. Quartz ought to exist in a state
of hydrate, and Wavellite, not Corundum, ought to

be   the  state of alumina in granite.
          suppose the primary rocks,
    " To                                in  general,  to  have

been produced by the slow cooling of a mass formed

by the combustion of the metallic bases of the earths,

appears to me the most reasonable hypothesis ; yet

aqueous agency must not be entirely excluded from

our geological views. In many cases of crystalliza

tion, even in volcanic countries, this cause operates ;

thus in Ischia, siliceous tufas are formed from hot
springs ; and in the lake Albula, or the lake of Solfa-

terra, near Tivoli, crystals of calcareous spar and of

sulphur separate from water impregnated with car

bonic acid and hepatic gas ; and large strata of cal

careous rocks, formed evidently in late times by

water impregnated with carbonic acid, exist in va

rious parts of Europe. The Travertine marble

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  159

(fifarmor Tiburtinum) is a production of this kind ;

and it is of this species of stone that the Coloseum at

Rome, and the cathedral of St. Peter, are built. It

is likewise employed in the ancient temple of Pac

tum, and it rivals in durability, if not in beauty, the

primary marble of Paris and Carrara."

ICO THE LIFE OF

                 CHAPTER XII.

Sir Humphry Davy suggests a chemical method for unrolling the
   ancient Papyri. -- He is encouraged by the Government to pro

  ceed to Naples for that purpose. --He embarks at Dover. -- His

   experiments on the Rhine, the Danube, the Raab, the Save, the
   Ironzo, the Po, and the Tiber, in order to explain the formation

   of mists on rivers and lakes. --His arrival and reception at Naples.
   -- He visits the excavations at Herculaneum.-- He concludes

   that it was overwhelmed by sand and ashes, but had never been

   exposed to burning matter. --He commences his attempt of un

   rolling the Papyri. -- His failure. -- He complains of the persons
   at the head of the department in the Museum. -- He analyses the

   waters of the Baths of Lucca. -- His return to England. --Death
   of Sir Joseph Banks. -- He is elected President of the Royal So
   ciety. -- Some remarks on that event. -- He visits Penzance. --Is

   honoured by a public dinner Electro-magnetic discoveries of

   Oersted extended by Davy. -- He examines Electrical Pheno
   mena in vacuo. --The results of his experiments questioned. --

   He enquires into the state of the water, and aeriform matter in
   the cavities of crystals. --The interesting results of his enquiry
   confirm the views of the Plutonists.

   Our history now proceeds to exhibit Sir Hum
phry Davy in quite a new field of enquiry ; --en

gaged in investigating, amidst the ruins of Hercula
neum, the nature and effects of the volcanic erup
tion which overwhelmed that city in the reign
of Titus ; and in attempting, by the resources of

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  161

mouldering archives which have been recovered
from its excavations, and deposited in the Museum
at Naples.

   Having witnessed the unsuccessful attempts of
Dr. Sickler to unroll some of the Herculaneum ma
nuscripts, it occurred to him that a chemical exami
nation of their nature, and of the changes they had
undergone, might suggest some method of sepa
rating the leaves from each other, and of rendering
legible the characters impressed upon them. On
communicating this opinion to Sir Thomas Tyr-
whitt, he immediately placed at his disposal frag
ments which had been operated upon by Mr. Hay-
ter and by Dr. Sickler : at the same time, Dr. Young
presented him with some small pieces, which he
himself had formerly attempted to unroll.

   Davy was very soon convinced by the products
of their distillation, that the nature of these manu

scripts had been generally misunderstood ; that they

had not, as was usually supposed, been carbonized
by the operation of fire, but were in a state analo

gous to peat, or to Bovey coal, the leaves being
generally cemented into one mass by a peculiar
substance which had formed, during the fermenta
tion and chemical change of the vegetable matter
composing them, in a long course of ages. The na
ture of this substance being once known, the de
struction of it would become a subject of obvious

chemical investigation.

  It occurred to him, that as chlorine and iodine do

not exert any action upon pure carbonaceous sub
stances, while they possess a strong attraction for

162 THE LIFE OF

with success for the purpose of destroying the ad
hesive matter, without the possibility of injuring
the letters of the Papyri, the ink of the ancients, as
it is well known, being composed of charcoal. He
accordingly exposed a fragment of a brown manu
script, in which the layers were strongly adherent,
to an atmosphere of chlorine; there was an imme

diate action, the papyrus smoked, and became yel
low, and the letters appeared much more distinct.

After which, by the application of heat, the layers
separated from each other, and fumes of muriatic
acid were evolved. The vapour of iodine had a
less distinct, but still a very sensible action. By
the simple application of heat to a fragment in a
close vessel filled with carbonic acid, or with the
vapour of ether, so regulated as to raise the tem

perature very gradually, and as gradually to reduce
it, there was a marked improvement in the texture
of the papyrus, and its leaves were more easily un

rolled. In all these preliminary trials, however, he

found that the success of the experiment absolutely
depended upon the nicety with which the tempera
ture was regulated.

    Different papyri having exhibited different ap
pearances, he concluded that the same process would
not apply in all cases ; but even a partial success

he considered as a step gained, and it served to in

crease his anxiety to examine in detail the nume
rous specimens preserved in the Museum at Naples,
as well as to visit the excavations that still remained

open at Herculaneum.
   Mr. Hamilton, to whom these views were com

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  163

character, entered warmly into a plan which might
enable Sir Humphry Davy to accomplish his ob
jects ; and on his representation of them, the Earl

of Liverpool and Viscount Castlereagh placed at his

disposal such funds as were requisite for paying the
persons whom it was necessary to engage in the

process.

   At the same time, Sir Humphry Davy had the

honour of an audience of his late Majesty, then
Prince Regent ; and on witnessing the results, his

Royal Highness was pleased to express his appro
bation, and graciously condescended to patronize
the undertaking. Exulting in the prospect of suc
cess, and sanguine as to the importance of its results
to literature, Davy embarked at Dover for the Con

tinent, in order to proceed to Naples, on the 26th of

May 1818.

   During his journey, he was engaged in making
observations on the comparative temperature of air

incumbent upon land and water, with a view to
account for the formation of mists over the beds of

rivers and lakes. The results of this enquiry were
embodied in a memoir, which was read before the

Royal Society on the 25th of February 1819, and
published in the Philosophical Transactions of that
year. This paper, while it records the course of his
observations, informs us of the direction of his route

to the southern shores of Italy.
   On the 31st of May, while passing along the

Rhine from Cologne to Coblentz, we find him ex
amining the relative temperature of the air, and of
the water of that river. On the 9th, 10th, and 11th

M2

164 THE LIFE OF

the Danube, during a voyage from Ratisbonne to

Vienna. On the 11th of July, he was similarly
engaged on the Raab, near Kermond in Hungary.
In the end of August he was on the Save in Car-
niola ; in the middle of September on the Ironzo in
the Friul ; in the end of that month, on the Po,
near Ferrara ; and in the beginning of October, re
peatedly on the Tiber, and on the small lakes in the
Campagna of Rome, extending and multiplying his
observations upon the formation of mists : from the
results of which he established the law, that the
formation of mist, on a river or lake, never takes

place, if the temperature of the water be lower than

that of the atmosphere ; not even though the latter
should be even saturated with vapour.

   Possessed of this fact, he was enabled to explain
a phenomenon which all persons who have been ac
customed to the observation of Nature must have

frequently witnessed, although it had never yet
been philosophically explained, nor even fully dis
cussed, viz. --the formation of mists over the beds
of rivers and lakes, in calm and clear weather, after

sunset.

   Sir Humphry Davy thinks that whoever has con

sidered the phenomena in relation to the radiation
and communication of heat and nature of vapour,

since the publication of the researches of MM.

Rumford, Leslie, Dalton, and Wells, can scarcely
have failed to discover their true causes.

   " As soon as the sun has disappeared from any
part of the globe, the surface begins to lose heat by

radiation, and in greater proportions as the sky is

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                  165

operation in a very different manner: the impres
sion of cooling on the land is limited to the surface,

and very slowly transmitted to the interior ; where
as in water above 45 Fah., as soon as the upper

stratum is cooled, whether by radiation or evapo
ration, it sinks in the mass of fluid, and its place is

supplied by warmer water from below, and till the
temperature of the whole mass is reduced nearly to
40, the surface cannot be the coolest part.* It fol

lows, therefore, that wherever water exists in con

siderable masses, and has a temperature nearly equalit,

to that of the land, or only a few degrees below it,

and above 45 at sunset, its surface during the night,
in calm and clear weather, will be warmer than that

of the contiguous land ; and the air above the land
will necessarily be colder than that above the water;

and when they both contain their due proportion of
aqueous vapour, and the situation of the ground is
such as to permit the cold air from the land to mix
with the warmer air above the water, mist or fog
will be the result ; which will be so much the greater
in quantity, as the land surrounding or inclosing the

water is higher, the water deeper, and the tempe
rature of the water, which will coincide with the

quantity or strength of vapour in the air above

greater."                              ,

It will be remembered, that the rivers Inn and
Ilz flow into the Danube below Passau
                                       ;      circum

                                           a

stance which afforded Davy an excellent oppor
tunity of confirming, by observation and experi-

     Water, when cooled down to 40, expands in volume, and thus
becomes specifically lighter; and therefore at that temperature
remains at the surface.
                                          i

166 THE LIFE OF

ment, the truth of his theory. On examining the
temperature of these rivers, at six o'clock a. m.
June 11, that of the Danube was found to be 62,

that of the Inn 56.5, and that of the Ilz 56: the

temperature of the atmosphere on the banks, where
their streams mixed, was 54. The whole surface of

the Danube was covered with a thick fog ; on the

Inn there was a slight mist ; and on the Ilz barely a

haziness, indicating the deposition of a very small
quantity of water. About one hundred yards be
low the conflux of the rivers, the temperature of
the central part of the Danube was 59 ; and here
the quantity of mist was less than on the bed of the

Danube before the junction ; but about half a mile
below, the warmer water had again found its place
at the surface, and the mist was as copious as before
the union of the three rivers.

   After mists have been formed above rivers and

lakes, Davy considers that their increase may not
only depend upon the constant operation of the
cause which originally produced them, but likewise
upon the radiation of heat from the superficial par
ticles of water composing the mist, which produces
a descending current of cold air in the very body of
the mist, while the warm water continually sends

up vapour. It is to these circumstances, he says,

that the phenomena must be ascribed of mists from
a river or lake sometimes arising considerably above
the surrounding hills. He informs us that he had

frequently witnessed such an appearance during the
month of October, after very still and very clear
nights, in the Campagna of Rome above the Tiber,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  167

the ancient craters of this extinguished volcano;
and in one instance, on the 17th of October, before

sunrise, there not being a breath of wind, a dense
white cloud, of a pyramidal form, was seen on the
site of Alban Lake, and rising far above the highest
peak of the mountain. Its form gradually changed
after sunrise ; its apex first disappeared, and its
body, as it were, melted away in the sunbeams.

   Great dryness of the air, or a current of dry air
passing across a river, he found, as we might have
expected, to prevent the formation of mist even
when the temperature of the water was much
higher than that of the atmosphere.

   Thus did our philosopher, during the course of
his journey to Naples, by a series of observations

and experiments, investigate a phenomenon con

nected with the deposition of water from the atmo
sphere, and which is not without an effect in the
economy of nature ; for verdure and fertility, in hot
climates, generally follow the courses of rivers, and
by the operation of the law he established, they are
extended to the hills, and even to the plains sur

rounding their banks.

   On his arrival at Naples, Sir H. Davy found that
a letter from his Royal Highness the Prince Regent
to the King, and a communication made from the
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the Nea

politan Government, had prepared the way for his
enquiries, and procured for him every possible fa
cility in the pursuit of his objects.

   The different rolls of papyri presented very various
appearances. They were of all shades, from a light

168 THE LIFE OF

were of a   glossy  "  black, like jet, which the super
intendents  called
                       varnished ;" several contained the

umbilicus, or rolling-stick, in the middle, converted

into dense charcoal. In their texture, also, they

were as various as in their colours.

The persons to whom the care of these MSS. are

confided, or who have worked upon them, have

always attributed these different appearances to the
action of fire, more or less intense, according to the

proximity of the lava, which has been imagined to

have covered the part of the city in which they were

found ; but the different conclusion at which Davy
had arrived, from a chemical examination in Eng

land, was confirmed by a visit to the excavations

that still remained open at Herculaneum.

   These excavations are in a loose tufa, composed
of sand, volcanic ashes, stones, and dust, cemented

by the operation of water, which, at the time of
its action, was probably in a boiling state. The

theatre, and the buildings in the neighbourhood,

are incased in this tufa, and, from the manner in

which it is deposited in the galleries of the houses,
there can be little doubt that it was the result of

torrents laden with sand and volcanic matter, and

descending, at the same time, with showers of ashes

and stone still more copious than those that covered
Pompeii. The excavation in the house in which

the MSS. were found, had been filled up ; but a

building, which was said by the guides to be this

house, and which, as is evident from the engraved

plan, must at least have been close to it, at once

convinced Davy that the parts nearest the surface,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  169

never been exposed to any considerable degree of
heat. He found a small fragment of the ceiling of
one of the rooms, containing lines of gold leaf and
vermilion, in an unaltered state, which never could

have happened had they been acted upon by any

temperature sufficiently great to convert vegetable

matter into charcoal.

   The different states of the MSS. exactly coincide
with this view, and furnish evidence of their having
undergone a gradual process of decomposition. The

loose chestnut papyri, he observes, were probably

never wetted, but merely changed by the reaction
of their elements, assisted by the operation of a
small quantity of air ; the black ones, which easily

unroll, may be supposed to have remained in a
moist state, without any percolation of water; while
it is likely that the dense ones, containing earthy

matter, have been acted on by warm water, which

not only carried into the folds earthy matter sus
pended in it, but likewise dissolved the starch and

gluten used in preparing the papyrus and the glue
of the ink, and distributed them through the sub
stance of the MSS.

   As many of the papyri appear to have been

strongly compressed when moist, in different posi

tions, he thinks it probable that they had been
placed on shelves of wood, which were broken down
when the roofs of the houses yielded to the super
incumbent mass. That the operation of fire is not

at all necessary for producing such an imperfect
carbonization of vegetable matter as that displayed
by the MSS., is at once proved by an inspection

 170 THE LIFE OF

 shower of ashes that must have been cold, as they
 fell at the distance of seven or eight miles from the
 crater of Vesuvius ; and yet the wood of its build
 ings is uniformly found converted into charcoal,
while the colours on the walls, most of which would

 have been destroyed or altered by heat, are per
fectly fresh. Where papyri have been found in
these houses, they have appeared in the form of
white ashes, as of burnt paper, an effect produced
by the slow action of the air penetrating through
the loose ashes, and which has been impeded or

prevented in Herculaneum by the tufa, which, as
it were, hermetically sealed up the town, and pre

vented any decay, except such as occurs in the
spontaneous decomposition of vegetable substances

exposed to the limited operation of water and air--

for instance, peat and Bovey coal.

    Davy ascertained, that what the Neapolitans
called varnish, was decomposed skin that had been
used to infold some of the papyri, and which by
chemical changes had produced a brilliant animal

carbonaceous substance, which afforded by distilla
tion a considerable quantity of ammonia, and left
ashes containing much phosphate of lime.

   Only one method, and that a simple and mecha

nical, though a highly ingenious one, had been

adopted for unrolling the MSS. It was invented,

in the middle of the last century, by Padre Piaggi,
a Roman, and consists in attaching a thin animal
membrane, by a solution of glue, to the back of the
MSS. and then carefully elevating the layers by
silk threads, which are gradually moved by the re

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           171

arrival, desired that the process of unrolling might

be continued in his presence ; and in considering

the method in its general application, it occurred to

him that some expedient might be used to facilitate
the separation of the layers. For this purpose, he

proposed to mix the solution of glue with a suffi

cient quantity of alcohol to gelatinize
            is it                                                       in or
                           it

                                     a

                                                                     ;

                                                                 it,
der that might not penetrate through three or

four layers, which  was liable to do, when the

texture of the papyrus was loose or broken, and the

glue employed was in liquid state. He also sug

gested the application of warm air for drying the

papyrus, in the operation of attaching the mem

brane. It not my intention to follow the chemist

through all the various processes which he insti

tuted for accomplishing his object they may, how
ever, be found in his paper entitled " Some Obser

vations and Experiments on the Papyri found in

the Ruins of Herculaneum," which was read before

the Royal Society on the 15th of March 1821, and

published in the Transactions of that year.

  It only remains to be stated that Davy was not

successful but though the process of unrolling
            it ;

                 is
                                                  is

                                                               a
hitherto applied may not have received any consider

able improvement from his science, and though he

may not have succeeded in rendering any of the

manuscripts legible, the failure not to be attribu
ted to his want of zeal, or to his want of skill, but

solely, as  generally admitted, to the unfortu

nate condition of the papyri.

  It will be readily supposed that failure in an in

vestigation, from which he had anticipated so much

172 THE LIFE OF

quick and irritable, without some demonstrations of

impatience and dissatisfaction.

  It was probably under the influence of such feel

ings, that he composed the conclusion of his memoir.

I" During the two months that was actively em
Iployed in experiments on the papyri at Naples,

Ihad succeeded, with the assistance of six of the per

sons attached to the Museum, and whom had en

gaged for the purpose, in partially unrolling twen
ty-three MSS., from which fragments of writing
were obtained, and in examining about one hundred

Iand twenty others, which afforded no hopes of suc

cess ; and should gladly have gone on with the
undertaking, from the mere prospect of a possibility
of discovering some better result, had not the labour,

in itself difficult and unpleasant, been made more so,
by the conduct of the persons at the head of this

department in the Museum. At first, every dispo

sition was shown to promote my researches ; for the

papyri remaining unrolled were considered by them
as incapable of affording any thing legible by the
former methods, or, to use their own word, disperati ;
and the efficacy and use of the new processes were

Ifully allowed by the Svolgatori, or unrollers of the

Museum ; and was some time permitted to choose

and operate upon the specimens at my own plea
sure. When, however, the Reverend Peter Elmsley,
whose zeal for the promotion of ancient literature
brought him to Naples for the purpose of assisting
in the undertaking, began to examine the fragments
unrolled, a jealousy with regard to his assistance was
immediately manifested ; and obstacles, which the

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               173

always capable of removing, were soon opposed to
the progress of our enquiries; and these obstacles

were so multiplied, and made so vexatious towards
the end of February, that we conceived it would be
both a waste of the public money and a compromise

of our own characters to proceed."

While in Italy, Sir H. Davy visited the baths of

Lucca, and examined the waters which have given

to that place so much celebrity. The results of his
analysis formed the subject of a paper, which was

published in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy
of Sciences at Naples, of which Society he was a

member.
At the spot where the temperature of the water

was the highest, thata       in what are termed the
                        is,
Caldi, or hot baths, considerable quantity of sub
                                            a
                                               a

                                                        a
stance  is  ejected, which produces   it a  deposit of

brownish-yellow colour. Having collected quan
tity of this deposit, he ascertained
                                            to consist of

oxide of iron and silica, in the proportion of about

four parts of the former to three of the latter and
although the iron, at the time of its deposition,
                                            ;

                                                 it
proved to be a peroxide, he thinks probable thatit

existed in the water in the state of protoxide. Heit
also supposes, that the oxide of iron and the silica
had been dissolved together in the water, and been
deposited from in combination. He conceives that

the fact which he had some years before noticed, of

the analogy between the base of silica, and that of

boracic acid, together with those observed by Ber-

 174 THE LIFE OF

amongst the acids, and for rendering it probable,
that the oxide of iron and silica undergo a real

 chemical combination in the warm water, and that
they are separated from the latter in consequence of
the reduction of its temperature, after it has issued

from the mountain.

   A small portion of oxide of iron, he observes, is

found in the waters of Bath, in which case it is also

accompanied by silica ; and he believes that, in many
other instances, the oxide of iron is dissolved in

water through the same agency : he moreover re

gards such facts as throwing considerable light upon
the manner in which ochre is generated.

    Sir Humphry Davy returned to England in 1820;
and, on the 19th of June, in the same year, his ve
nerable friend Sir Joseph Banks, who, notwithstand
ing his increasing infirmities, had continued to dis
charge the duties of President of the Royal Society
to the latest period of his life, expired at his villa at
Spring Grove, at the advanced age of seventy- seven.

    Discussions necessarily arose as to the appoint
ment of a proper successor, when persons of high
and even exalted rank were proposed as candidates ;
but the more influential members of the Society at
once found, in their own Council-chamber, two phi

losophers, whom they considered equally entitled to
the honour of the situation, and equally well calcu
lated for the discharge of its duties -- Sir Humphry
Davy, and Dr. Wollaston ; but the latter having
signified his fixed determination to decline compe
tition, gave the whole weight of his influence to the
former ; and, under that arrangement, he received

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     175

the chair, until the general election of officers at the

ensuing anniversary.

   As the period of election approached, a few Fel
lows of the Society attempted to raise a clamour in
favour of some more aristocratic candidate. To

this circumstance, Davy alludes in the following
letter.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,  Grosvenor Street, June 1 820.
I regret very much that you could not join me

at dinner this day. To-morrow and the following

Iday shall be occupied by pressing affairs; but

I shall be at home to-morrow till half-past eleven,

Iand be most happy to see you.        " mists," for

       am not very anxious to remove
I feel that the President's chair, after Sir Joseph,
Iwill be no light matter ; and unless there is a strong

feeling in the majority of the body that am the

Imost proper person, shall not sacrifice my tran

quillity for what cannot add to my reputation,

Ithough it may increase my power of being useful.

     feel it a duty that I owe to the Society to offer
myself ; but if they do not feel that they want me,

I I(and the most active members, believe, do) shall

not force myself upon them.

       I am, my dear Poole, very sincerely yours,

                                                     H. Davy.

   On the day of election, (November 30, 1820.)
there was a feeble expression in favour of Lord
Colchester, who was abroad at the time, and had

176 THE LIFE OF

of his supporters. Davy was therefore elected by
an immense majority of votes. He was conducted
into the meeting-room by his two friends, Mr. Da-
vies Gilbert and Mr. Hatchett, and, to the gratifica
tion of every lover of science, he ascended the chair
of Newton.

   The value which he himself attached to this
triumph, may be seen in his answer to a letter of
congratulation from his friend Mr. Poole.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,  Grosvenor Street, Dec. 10.

I am much obliged to you for your congratula

tions. The contest to my election defeated itself,

for there were only thirteen votes for Lord Col

chester out of nearly one hundred and sixty ; and,

Ihad it been known that the attempt would have

been made, should have had at least double the

number. The overwhelming majority has, how

ever, shown the good opinion of the Society, which

I trust and feel has not been diminished by my

conduct in the chair.

  I have never needed any motive to attach me to
science, which I have pursued with equal ardour

under all circumstances, for its own sake, and for

Ithe sake of the public, uninfluenced by the fears of

my friends, or the calumnies of my enemies.
Iglory in being in the chair of the Royal Society,

because think it ought to be a reward of scientific

labours, and not an appendage to rank or fortune ;

and because it will enable me to be useful in a

higher degree in promoting the cause of science.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          177

Iattached, even had not been in such good humour
Iwith the public, as have reason to be.

   Dr. Wollaston, my only formidable opponent in

the beginning of the business, behaved like a true
philosopher and friend of science ; and Mr. Gilbert

gave me his warmest support.
I Iam sorry that have said so much about my
Iself, but your long letter called for something.
Iwish could say anything satisfactory on the sub
Iject of Captain Parry and his officers.*
                                           have

every reason to believe Lord Melville will do all he
can on the occasion ; no recommendation will be

wanting from the Royal Society that can be given ;

but the Admiralty is bound by certain general rules,
and will not do more in this instance than they
would do in the case of a brilliant combat; but

these brave and scientific navigators will be reward
ed by a more durable species of glory.

  ILady Davy joins me in kind remembrances.
                          am, my dear Poole, sincerely yours,
                                                     H. Davy.

   It was a question anxiously discussed by the

friends of Davy, how far his elevation to the chair
of the Royal Society was calculated to advance the
cause of science, or to increase the lustre of his own

fame. It will be readily perceived that this is a

question perplexed by various conflicting interests,

   * Mr. Poole informs me, that he " had been anxious to interest

him, as President of the Royal Society, in favour of those brave
and scientific navigators, particularly Lieutenant, now Captain,
Liddon, who commanded the Griper, in Captain Parry's first

voyage."

178 THE LIFE OF

for it not only involves considerations relating to
the character of the person, but to that also of the
constitution and objects of the Society over which

he is called upon to preside.

   It is still doubtful whether the Royal Society, in

the present advanced state of science, can derive ad
vantage from possessing in its President, a philoso
pher actively engaged in any one branch of experi
mental enquiry. Sir Humphry Davy, in his first
address from the chair, took occasion to observe,
that " in the early periods of the establishment,
when apparatus was procured with difficulty, when
the greatest philosophers were obliged to labour
with their own hands to frame their instruments, it
was found expedient to keep in the rooms of the
Society a collection of all such machines as were
likely to be useful in the progress of experimental

knowledge ; and curators and operators were em
ployed, by whom many capital experiments were
made under the eyes of the Society.* But since the
improvement of the mechanical and chemical arts
has afforded greater facilities as to the means of car

rying on experimental research, the transactions of

   * The Charter of the Royal Society states that it was established

for the improvement of n atural science. This epithet " natural"

was originally    intended to  imply a meaning of which very few per
                   are aware.    At the period of the establishment of
sons, I believe,

the Society, the arts of witchcraft and divination were very exten

sively encouraged ; and the word natural was therefore introduced,

in contradistinction to uprr-natural.

Although Sir Walter Scott, in his Demonology, alludes to the
influence of this Society in diminishing the reigning superstition,

he does not appear to have been acquainted with the circumstance

here alluded to.                        

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.              179

the Fellows, recorded by the Society, have, with

some few exceptions, been performed in their own

laboratories, and at their own expense."

   In deciding upon the qualifications necessary for
a President, this altered state of the Society must
not be overlooked; nor can it be concealed, that

the great discoveries of modern science have been

achieved without any direct assistance from the

Royal Society. Davy would have discovered the

laws of electro-chemistry, and applied them for the
                of the alkalies -- and
decomposition   by his atomic doctrine,  the   g"ensinuastchof
                                         have
Dal ton would,

ed the science from the chaos of indefinite combina

tion, and have bound it in the chains of number,"

had the Society never existed. At the same time,
it must be allowed that, although it may not have

directly advanced the progress of science, it has

materially assisted its cause, by perpetuating the

spirit of philosophical enquiry, and the love of
scientific glory -- by keeping alive upon the altar

the sacred flame that genius may have kindled.

   In the present state of science, the Royal Society

imparts an inspiring principle to its various branches,
by affording a rallying point, a centre of communi
cation, to the philosophers of all nations, to whom

kindred pursuits may render personal intercourse

beneficial ; and it becomes the paramount duty of

the chief of this great republic so to preside over its

arrangements, as to foster and encourage such an

alliance. To this end, he must promote feelings of

mutual kindness and liberality; and as the friend

and umpire to all parties, it is his office to settle

                N2

180 THE LIFE OF

hope, and to subdue the vehemence which " engen
ders strife," in order that rivalship shall not pass
into hostility, nor emulation degenerate into envy.

It is evident that the talents and qualifications ne

cessary for the discharge of such duties are of the
highest order, extensive in their range, and diver
sified in their character. To which, however harshly
the word may grate upon the ear of the philosopher,

wealth must be considered as an essential and

indispensable condition.

   It may be fairly asked, whether a philosopher

actively engaged in the pursuit of any branch of
science, is so well adapted for the performance of

such varied duties, as the person who possesses a
general acquaintance with every department, but is
not exclusively devoted to the investigation of any
one branch ; for, however correct may be his deci
sions, or unbiassed his judgment, the conduct of the

former will ever be open to the charge of partiality,
and the bare existence of such a suspicion, though
it may be wholly groundless, will carry with it a

train of evils. It is not in human nature to believe

that the looker-on, and he who plays the game, are
alike indifferent to the cards.*

   On the other hand, it may be urged with some
force, that the Presidency of the Royal Society
should be reserved as the fair reward of scientific

* I state this opinion with the greater confidence, from a convic

tion that it is not singular. On conversing lately upon the sub

ject with a gentleman to whom the Royal Society is deeply indebt

ed for the sound   judgment and     discretion   he  displayed on occasions
greatly affecting   its interests,  he replied,      Sir, we require not an
                                                  "

Achilles to fight our battles, but an Agamemnon to command the

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 181

labours, and     not   as an appendage  to rank or to
                  in  England, we may   in vain search
wealth :-- that

amongst the aristocracy for one who feels a dignified

respect for the sciences, and who is willing to afford

that time which the faithful discharge of its duties

would require.
To assert that Davy retained his popularity, or to

deny that he retired from the office under the frown

Iof a considerable party, would be dishonest.
Iwould willingly dismiss this part of his life without

too nice an examination ; but am writing a history,

not an eloge.

As a philosopher, his claims to admiration and

respect were allowed in all their latitude ; but when

he sought for the homage due to patrician distinc

tion, they were denied with indignation. How

strange it is, that those whom Nature has placed

above their fellow men by the god-like gift of

genius, should seek from their inferiors those dis

tinctions which are generally the rewards of fortune.

When we learn that Congreve, in his interview

with Voltaire, prided himself upon his fashion ra

ther than upon   his wit  ;   that  Byron was   more vain
of his heraldry  than of            Pilgrimage  of Childe
                             his "

Harold ;" that Racine pined into an atrophy, because

the monarch passed him without a recognition in

the anti-room of the palace, and that Davy sighed

for patrician distinction in the chair of Newton, we

can only lament the weakness from which the
                                                   Will
choicest spirits of our nature are not exempt.  "
philosophers never feel, with Walpole, that        a ge

nius transmits more honour by blood than he can

182 THE LIFE OF

nobility flowed in the veins of Davy, would his
name have commanded higher homage, or his disco
veries have excited greater admiration ? But great
minds have ever had their points of weakness : an
inordinate admiration of hereditary rank was the
cardinal deformity of Davy's character ; it was the
centre from which all his defects radiated, and con

tinually placed him in false positions ; for the man
who rests his claims upon doubtful or ill-defined
pretensions, from a sense of his insecurity, naturally
becomes jealous at every apparent inattention, and
he is suspicious of the sincerity of that respect

Ifwhich he feels may be the fruit of usurpation.

with these circumstances we take into consideration

the existence of a natural timidity of character,

which he sought to conquer by efforts that be
trayed him into awkwardness of manner, and com

bine with it an irritability of temperament which
occasionally called up expressions of ill-humour, we

at once possess a clue by which we may unravel
the conduct of our philosopher, and the conse

quences it brought upon himself during his pre
sidency of the Royal Society. Nor must we leave
out of sight that inattention to certain forms which,

amongst those who are incapable of penetrating
beyond the surface of character, passes for the of
fensive carelessness of superiority. Davy, after the
example of Sir Joseph Banks, opened his house on
one evening of the week for the reception of the
Fellows of the Royal Society, and of other per

sons who were actively engaged in any scientific
pursuit ; but the invitations to these soirees were

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    183

offence, where they were intended to convey a com

pliment.

   Conflicting opinions, respecting the management
of the Royal Institution, most unfortunately also

arose, and the President of the Royal Society,

presuming upon his former alliance with that es

tablishment, and upon the high obligations con

ferred upon it by the splendid discoveries he had
achieved within its walls, was encouraged to ex

ercise an authority which provoked an angry dis

satisfaction ; -- schisms arose, and the party-spirit

thus kindled in Albemarle Street soon spread to

Somerset House. --But let us turn to the brighter
part of the picture. In the discharge of the more

important duties of his office, the Society received

the full benefit of his talents and his virtues. At

its meetings, he was constant in attendance, and

dignified in his conduct and deportment ; in its
councils, he was firm in his resolves, correct in his

judgments, zealous in his plans,* and impartial in

his decisions. It has been said that he unduly fa

voured the pursuits of chemistry, to the injury and
depression of the other branches of science : this is

not the fact, as a reference to the Philosophical

Transactions will amply testify; and the awards

of the Copley medals will moreover show, that he

alike extended the animating influence of his pa
Itronage to every part of natural philosophy.
                                               am

authorised by Sir James South to state, that during

   * It was well known to his friends that, had his health not

declined, he would have carried into effect a reform which he

had long contemplated, and by which the Royal Society would

184 THE LIFE OF

his negotiations with the Government, for the pur
pose of securing to the British Nation the unalien
able use of his splendid instruments, by the erection
of a permanent observatory, Sir Humphry Davy
was indefatigable in his exertions to accomplish so
important an object ; and that on one occasion, in
the midst of severe illness, he travelled at no in
considerable risk to London, from the distant seat
of his friend Mr. Knight, to advocate a cause so
essential, in his judgment, to the interests of As
tronomy.

   In the Autumn of 1821, Davy visited his mother

and relatives at Penzance ; upon which occasion he
received from the inhabitants of the town, and from
the gentlemen resident in its neighbourhood, a flat
tering testimony of respect, which made a deep and
lasting impression upon his heart

  At a General Meeting, summoned for the purpose

of taking into consideration some mode by which his
fellow-townsmen might express their sense of his
transcendent talents, and of the lustre which his

genius had cast upon the place of his nativity : --It
was unanimously resolved --

   " That a public dinner be given to Sir Humphry
Davy, and that the Mayor be desired to wait upon
him forthwith, in order to communicate the Resolu
tion, and respectfully to request that he would ap
point the day, on which it would be agreeable to
him to meet their wishes."

    On the day appointed, a deputation of Gentlemen

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      185

mother, for the purpose of conducting him to the

hotel, where an appropriate entertainment had been
provided for the occasion.

   The following letter evinces the sincere satisfac
tion which this visit afforded him.

          TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,          Penzance, July 28, 1821.
  IAn uncontrollable necessity has brought me here.

Close to the Land's-end am enjoying the majestic

in nature, and living over again the days of my in

fancy and early youth.

The living beings that act upon me are interest

ing subjects for contemplation. Civilization has not

yet destroyed in their minds the semblance of the

great Parent of good.
   Nature has done much for the inhabitants of

Mount's Bay, by presenting to their senses all things
that can awaken in the mind the emotions of great

ness and sublimity. She has placed them far from

cities, and given them forms of visible and audible

beauty.

  I am now reviving old associations, and endea

Ivouring to attach old feelings to a few simple
objects.  am, &c.                H. Davy.

   Although the letter which follows is without date,

I am unwilling to withhold it.

                       TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

       MY DEAR POOLE,

   I have been for some weeks absent from London,

Iand have only just received your letter. When
Ireturn in the winter, shall be glad to see Mr. A. --

186 THE LIFE OF

I regret that your niece is so much indisposed.
ILady Davy has been obliged to change her climate

in consequence of a long-continued cough, but am
happy in being able to say she is now quite well.

  IAfter the fatigues of a long season in London,
Iam now enjoying the Highland scenery and sports

with a purer pleasure, and find, after the Alps and
Pyrenees, even the mountains of Scotland possessing
some peculiar beauties. You ought to come and see
this country, which you would enjoy, both as a lover
of nature and of man. The one is grand and beau

Itiful ; the other, moral, active, and independent.
           am, my dear Poole, your obliged friend,
                                                 H. Davy.

The Philosophical Transactions, during the Presi

dency of Sir Humphry Davy, evince the alacrity

with which he redeemed the pledge given to the
                                       chair--
Society in his address  on taking the           it  were,
                         good opinion  has, as
   " And though your

Ihonoured me with a rank similar to that of General,
  shall be always happy to act as a private soldier in
the ranks of Science."

   Many years before even the identity of lightning
and electricity was suspected, it had been observed,
on several occasions, that the magnetism of the com
pass needle was not only destroyed, which might
have been attributed to heat, but that it was even re

versed by lightning.*

   * Davy observes, that there are many facts recorded in the Philo
sophical Transactions, which prove the magnetising powers of light-

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           187

   In the progress of electrical discoveries, the simi

larity between electricity and magnetism had not

escaped observation,* and some philosophers had

even attempted to establish the existence of an iden

tity or intimate relation between these two forces.
The experiments of Ritter, however, alone appeared
to offer any confirmation of the supposed analogy ;
but so obscure was his language, and so wild and

hypothetical his views, that few, if any, of them

were repeated either in France or England, and
their results were for a long time wholly disre

garded.

   In a work, entitled " Recherches sur l'identite des
Forces Chimiques et Electriques," published by M.

Oersted in the year 1807, the subject was resumed,

and the author advanced the hypothesis,! which

ning : one in particular, where a stroke oflightning passing through
a box of knives, rendered most of them powerful magnets.-- Philo

sophical Transactions, No. 157, p. 520, and No. 437, p. 57.
   * The phenomena of many crystallized minerals which become

electric by heat, and develope opposite electric poles at their two

extremities, offered an analogy so striking to the polarity of the

magnet, that it seemed hardly possible to doubt a closer connection

of the two powers. The developement of a similar polarity in the

Voltaic pile pointed strongly to the same conclusion ; and experi

ments had even been made with a view to ascertain whether a pile

in a state of excitement might not manifest a disposition to place
            the magnetic meridian. -- Herschel's Discourse,
titself in   hypothesis was this : -- " In galvanism, the      p. 340.  more
       The                                                   force is

latent than in electricity, and still more so in magnetism than in

galvanism ; it is therefore necessary to try whether electricity, in

its latent state, will not affect the needle." This passage may be

thus explained : When the Voltaic circuit is interrupted, it pos

sesses opposite electrical poles ; and when continuous, it no longer

affects the electrometer, or the electricity becomes latent, which is

the condition theoretically required for the manifestation of its mag

188 THE LIFE OF

twelve years afterwards conducted him to one of
the most important discoveries of the present age,

and which has given origin to a new science, termed

Electro-magnetism *

   In the winter of 1819, Professor Oersted, Secre
tary to the Royal Society of Copenhagen, published
an account of some experiments, in which the elec

tric current, such as is supposed to pass from the
positive to the negative pole of a Voltaic battery,
along a wire which connects them, caused a mag
netic needle near it to deviate from its natural
position, and to assume a new one, the direction of
which was observed to depend upon the relative
position of the needle and the wire.f

   It may be necessary to premise, that these expe

riments were conducted in a form which had never

before suggested itself to the enquirer ; ens. with

the two ends of the pile in communication with each
other, -- a condition which enabled it to discharge
itself freely : this circumstance will, at once, ex

plain the reason of all preceding failures. It was

never before suspected that the electric current,
passing uninterruptedly through a wire, connecting
the two ends of a Voltaic battery, was capable of

netic action : and the fundamental experiment of Oersted proved
that, under these circumstances, the compass needle was affected.

    * Mr. Herschel, in speaking of the pertinacity with which Oersted
adhered to the idea of a necessary connection between electricity
and magnetism, observes, that there is something in it which re
minds us of the obstinate adherence of Columbus to his notion of
the necessary existence of the New World.

   t For this discovery, the President and Council of the Royal

Society adjudged to M. Oersted the medal on Sir Godfrey Copley's

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     189

being manifested by any effect ; the experiments,

however, in question furnished an unequivocal test

of its passage by its action on the magnetic needle ;

and which may be shortly stated as follows :

   The opposite poles of a battery, in full action,

were joined by a metallic wire, which, to avoid cir

cumlocution, has been called the uniting conductor,

or the uniting wire.

On placing the wire above the magnet and pa

rallel to it, the pole next the negative end of the

battery always moved westward, and when the wire

Ifwas placed under the needle, the same pole went
towards the east.     the wire was on the same ho

rizontal plane with the needle, no declination what

ever took place, but the magnet showed a disposi

tion to move in a vertical direction ; the pole next

the negative side of the battery being depressed

when the wire was to the west of it, and elevated

when it was placed on the east side.

The extent of the declination occasioned by a

Ifbattery, depends upon its power, and the distance
of the uniting wire from the needle.  the appa

ratus is powerful, and the distance small, the decli

nation will amount to an angle of forty-five degrees

or more ; but this deviation does not give an exact

idea of the real effect which may be produced by

galvanism ; for the motion of the needle is coun
teracted by the magnetism of the Earth. When

the influence of this latter power is destroyed by
means of another magnet, the needle will place it

self directly across the connecting wire : so that the

real tendency of a magnet is to stand at right angles

190 THE LIFE OF

wholly at variance with the laws of simple electrical
attraction and repulsion, are only to be explained
upon the supposition that a new energy is gene
rated by the action of the current of electricity thus
brought into conflict, and which must be identical
with, or nearly related to, magnetism.

   It would also appear from the motions of the

magnet, when differently placed with regard to the
uniting wire, that this energy circulates, or performs
a circular movement around the axis of the con
ductor, and thus drives the magnetic pole according
to the direction of the needle with reference to such

a current.

   This important discovery was no sooner an
nounced to the philosophical world, than Sir Hum
phry Davy, with his characteristic zeal, proceeded
to repeat the experiments ; and, with his usual sa
gacity, so to vary and extend them, as to throw
new light upon this novel department of science.
The facts he thus discovered, and the reasonings
founded upon them, were communicated by him to
the Royal Society in three successive memoirs.

   The First, " On the Magnetic Phenomena pro

duced by Electricity," was read on the 16th of No

vember 1 820.

   The Second, entitled " Farther Researches on

the Magnetic Phenomena produced by Electricity ;
with some new Experiments on the properties of
Electrified bodies, in their relations to conducting

powers and Temperature," read July 5th, 1821.
   The Third, " On a new Phenomenon of Electro-

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.           191

memoirs were performed with the battery belong
ing to the London Institution,* the once powerful
apparatus at the Royal Institution having become

old and feeble in his service.

   The following letter contains an invitation to his
friend Mr. Pepys, to witness his first experiment ; a
document so far valuable, as it fixes a date of some

importance in the history of discovery.

TO WILLIAM HASLEDINE PEPYS, ESQ.

  IDEAR PEPYS,         Grosvenor Street, Oct. 20, 1820.

The experiment     wish to show you is no less

than the conversion of electricity into magnetism ;

but it is a secret as yet.
I will come to you at twelve on Monday, in the
IfPoultry.
                you will be so good as to order the

battery to be charged to-morrow, it will be ready

for us on Monday.

Have you a dipping needle? This, and an air-

pump, and the globe for taking sparks in vacuo by

points of charcoal, are all we shall want.

Perhaps you will invite Dr. Babington, and our

Iworthy friend Allen.

      will show you the opening of quite a new field

of experiment.  Ever yours very sincerely,
                                              H. Davy.

   The discovery of Professor Oersted was limited
to the action of the electric current on needles pre-

   I find from a note addressed to Mr. Pepys, that on the 2 1 st of

June, 1822, Davy worked the two batteries of 1000 plates each at
the London Institution, before the Prince Royal of Denmark. The

192 THE LIFE OF

viously magnetised. Davy ascertained that the

uniting conductor itself became magnetic, during the

passage of the electricity through it.* It was in

consequence of having observed some anomaly, with
respect to the way in which the uniting wire al
tered the direction of the magnet, that he was led

to a conjecture which he immediately verified by

a very simple experiment. He threw some iron

filings on a paper, and brought them near the unit
ing wire, when immediately they were attracted by
the wire, and adhered to it in considerable quan
tities, forming a mass round it ten or twelve times
the thickness of the wire : on breaking the commu
nication, they instantly fell off, proving that the

magnetic effect entirely depended upon the passage
of electricity through the wire.

   Davy observes, it was easy to imagine that such

magnetic effects could not be exhibited by the elec
trical wire, without its being capable of permanently
communicating them to steel ; and that, in order to

ascertain whether such was the fact, he fastened

several steel needles, in different directions, to the

uniting wire, when those parallel to it were found
to act like the wire itself, while each of those placed

* It would appear that M. Arago likewise discovered this fact at

about the same period ; but it is evident that the French and Eng

lish philosophers arrived at the result independently of each other;

for the experiments which led to it were made  btyheSir"  H. Davy  in
October 1820; while the September number of               Annates  de

Physique," containing the first account of the Researches of M.

Arago, was not received in London until the 24th of November in

that year; and it may be farther observed, that the numbers of this

journal were very commonly published several months after the

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     193

across it acquired two poles. Such as were placed
under the wire, the positive end of the battery being
east, had north poles on the south of the wire, and
south poles to the north. The needles above were
in the opposite direction ; and this was constantly
the case, whatever might be the inclination of the

needle to the wire. On breaking the connexion,

the steel needles, placed across the uniting wire,

retained their magnetism,* while those placed par
allel to it lost it at the moment of disunion. The

most extraordinary circumstances, however, con
nected with these experiments were, first, that con

tact with the uniting wire was not found necessary
for the production of the effect, -- indeed, it was

even produced, though thick glass intervened ; and,

secondly, that a needle which had been placed in a
transverse direction to the wire, merely for an in-

 M. Arago also, nearly at the same time, succeeded in commu

nicating magnetism to the needle ; but, at the suggestion of M.
Ampere, it was effected in a different manner. A copper wire, by

being rolled round a solid rod, was twisted into a spiral, so as to

form a helix. It was easy, by passing the wire round the rod, in

one direction or the other, to form a dextrorsal helix, proceeding

from the right hand towards the left, as in the tendrils of many

plants ; or a sinistrorsal, or left helix, proceeding downwards from

the left hand to the right above the axis. Into the cavity of a

spiral thus formed, connecting the two poles of a battery, a steel

needle wrapped in paper was introduced ; and, in order to exclude

all influence of the magnetism of the earth, the conchoidal part of

the wire was kept constantly perpendicular to the magnetic meri

dian. In a few minutes the needle had acquired a sufficiently

strong dose of magnetism ; and the position of the north and south

poles exactly agreed with M. Ampere's notion, that the electric

current traverses the connecting wire in a direction from the zinc

extremity of the pile to the copper extremity.
VOL. II.
          O

194 THE LIFE OF

stant, was found as powerful a magnet as one that
had been long in communication with it.

   The distance to which magnetism is communi
cated by electricity, and the fact of its taking place

equally through conductors and non-conductors, are
circumstances which, in the opinion of Davy, are
unfavourable to the idea of the identity of elec
tricity and magnetism.

    Davy subsequently ascertained by experiment,
that the magnetic result was proportional to the
quantity of electricity passing through a given
space ; and this fact led him to believe, that a wire
electrified by the common machine would not occa
sion a sensible effect ; and this he found to be the

case, on placing very small needles across a fine wire
connected with a prime conductor of a powerful
machine and the earth. But as a momentary expo
 sure in a powerful electrical circuit was sufficient
to give permanent polarity to steel, it appeared
 equally obvious, that needles placed transversely to
 a wire at the time that the electricity of a common
 Leyden battery was discharged through it, ought
 to become magnetic ; and this he found was ac

 tually the fact, and according to precisely the same
 laws as in the Voltaic circuit ; the needle under the

 wire, the positive conductor being on the right
 hand, offering its north pole to the face of the

 operator, and the needle above, exhibiting the oppo

 site polarity.
     The facility with which experiments are made

 with the common Leyden battery, enabled him to

 ascertain various other important facts, respecting

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  195

be inconsistent with the nature and limits of this
Iwork to particularize.
                         have merely offered a no

tice of the more prominent discoveries communi

cated by him in his first paper to the Royal Society,
and which he concludes by observing, that " in con
sequence of the facts lately developed, a number of

curious speculations cannot fail to present them

selves to every philosophical mind ; such as whe
ther the magnetism of the earth may not be owing
to its electricity, and the variation of the needle to

the alterations in the electrical currents of the earth,

in consequence of its motions, internal changes, or

its relations to solar heat ; and whether the lumi
nous effects of the auroras at the poles are not

shown, by these new facts, to depend on electricity.

This is evident, that if strong electrical currents be

supposed to follow the apparent course of the sun,
the magnetism of the earth ought to be such as it is

found to be."*

Davy never overlooked an occasion of applying

theory to practice, and he therefore proposes, upon

the principles developed in this paper, to make

powerful magnets, by fixing bars of steel, or cir

cular pieces of steel, fitted for making horse-shoe
magnets, round the electrical conductors of build

ings in elevated and exposed situations.

   His second paper contains an account of experi

   * A very ingenious piece of apparatus was contrived to illustrate
this theory by experiment; but I am uncertain as to whom the
credit of it belongs. It consisted of a globe, containing metallic

wires, arranged in relation to each other according to the electro

magnetic theory, when, by passing an electric current in the direc

                O2

196 THE LIFE OF

ments instituted with a view to gain some distinct
knowledge on the subject of the relations of the

different conductors to the magnetism produced by
electricity. The results were decisive; but, with
out entering minutely into the theory of the sub
ject which they so ably illustrated, these experi

ments cannot be clearly described, or successfully
explained. The same observation will apply to the

researches detailed in his third paper, announcing
the discovery of a new electro-magnetic phenomenon ;
for, since they are inseparably connected with Mr.

IFaraday's beautiful experiments on Magnetic no

tation, could scarcely expect to render my analysis

Iof the memoir sufficiently intelligible, without en

tering at length upon that curious subject; am
unwilling, however, to refer the reader to the ori

greinmaal rkpauppeor ninthethpeheTnraonmseanctoino,nsw, hiwchithhoeutsayosffe"riisngthea
principal object of the paper," but which we might

conclude, from the hasty and imperfect manner in
which he dismisses it, to have occupied a very sub

ordinate place in his estimation. In his anxiety to

examine and describe the rotations produced during

Ithis experiment, he bestows far too little attention

 upon the more, indeed might say the only, im
 portant phenomenon of the cone of mercury which
 was elevated above each of the wires proceeding
 from the battery ; and which, arising as it evidently
 did from a repulsive influence, clearly shows that
 the presence of electricity establishes between the
 particles of matter a repulsive energy, whether that
 matter be conducting, or non-conducting in its

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                          197

Iillustrated by a different form of experiment, and

unfairly, as must think, omitted even to notice

Davy's prior result.

   On the 20th of December 1821, Davy commu
nicated to the Royal Society a memoir " On the

Electrical Phenomena exhibited in vacuo."

  It had been stated by Mr. Walsh, and the opinion

had been subsequently supported by the researches

of Mr. Morgan, that the electrical light was not

producible in a perfect Torricellian vacuum ; the

latter gentleman also concluded that such a vacuum

prevented the charging of coated glass.
   An enquiry of greater importance can scarcely be

imagined ; involving in its train several of the most
abstruse and difficult questions of corpuscular phi

losophy ; as, whether electricity be a subtile fluid,

or electrical effect the mere exhibition of the at

tractive powers of the particles of bodies ; for, if it

can be shown that these effects take place in a per

fect vacuum, we shall advance towards the conclu

sion, that electrical phenomena depend upon the

agency of an ethereal and transcendental fluid. It

was under such    apnossimibpler,es"sitohne  that Davy     proceeded
                                             relations of  electricity
to determine, if

to space, as nearly void of matter as it can be made

on the surface of the earth."

   He was, in the first instance, led to suspect the
accuracy of those conclusions at which Mr. Walsh
and Mr. Morgan had arrived, from considering

that, " in the most perfect vacuum which can be
obtained in the Torricellian tube, vapour of mer

cury, though of extremely small density, must still

198 THE LIFE OF

through the paths of this enquiry ; and then, with

all the deference due to such high authority, to
state the objections which may be urged against his

results.

   First, then, as to the results he obtained with

quicksilver in an apparatus simple, but well adapted
at once to insure the most completely attainable
vacuum, and to exhibit its capability of receiving

a charge. In all cases where this vacuum was per
fect, he found it to be permeable to electricity, and

to be rendered luminous, either by the common

spark, or by the shock from a Leyden jar; and,
moreover, that the coated glass surrounding it be

came charged under such circumstances ; but the
intensity of the light in these experiments was

always in proportion to the temperature, or, in other
words, to the density of the mercurial vapour ; and

that at 20" below zero of Fahrenheit, it became so

faint as to require considerable darkness to render it

perceptible.

The great brilliancy, on the other hand, of the

electrical light in pure, dense vapour of mercury,

was beautifully displayed during   thteubeo.pera"tiIonn   of
boiling the metal in an exhausted
                                                         the

formation and condensation of the globules of mer

curial vapour, the electricity produced by the fric

tion of the mercury against the glass, was discharged

through the vapour with sparks so bright as to be

visible in daylight."

The charge likewise communicated to the tin

foil was higher, the higher the temperature; at 0

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  199

phenomenon of the electric light, must, he thinks,
depend upon the different density of the vapour of

mercury.
   But he was desirous of still farther refining his

experiments, so as to exclude, as far as it was pos
sible, the presence of any volatile matter; and in
this part of the enquiry he displayed, in a very
masterly manner, that happy talent in which he so
far surpassed his contemporaries, of suggesting ex
pedients and contriving new apparatus in order to

vanquish practical difficulties.

   To get rid of a portion of mercurial vapour, he
employed a difficultly fusible amalgam of mercury

and tin, which was made to crystallize by cooling in
the tube; but, in this case, the results were pre

cisely the same as when pure mercury had been

used. He then attempted to make a vacuum above
the fusible alloy of bismuth, but he found it so

liable to oxidate and soil the tube, that he soon re

nounced farther attempts of this kind. Nothing
discouraged, he determined to try the effects of a
comparatively fixed metal in fusion. By melting
freshly cut pieces of grain tin, in a tube made void
after having been filled with hydrogen, and by

long-continued heat and agitation, he obtained a
column of fixed metal which appeared to be entirely

free from gas; and yet the vacuum made above

this exhibited the same phenomena as the mercurial
vacuum, except that they were not perceptibly in
creased by heat : a fact which Davy must have
anticipated, as he attributed the greater display of

 200 THE LIFE OF

 of increased density of vapour; it is therefore a
 matter of surprise that he did not give more im

 portance to the phenomenon.

    He made two experiments on electrical and mag
 netic repulsions and attractions in the mercurial
 vacuum, and he found that two balls, the one of
 platinum, the other of steel, properly arranged for
 the purpose, repelled each other, when the conduct
 ing wire to which they were attached was electrified
 in the most perfect mercurial vacuum, as they would
 have done in the usual cases : and that the steel

 globules were as obedient to the magnet as in the
 air; which last result, he observes, it was easy to

 have anticipated.

    He also made some comparative experiments,
with the view of ascertaining, whether below the
freezing point of water the diminution of the tem
perature of the Torricellian vacuum diminished its
power of transmitting electricity, or of being ren
dered luminous by it. To about twenty degrees,

this appeared to be the case ; but between twenty
degrees above, and twenty degrees below zero, the
lowest temperature he could produce by pounded
ice and muriate of lime, it seemed stationary ; and,
as well as he could determine, the electrical phe
nomena were very nearly of the same intensity as
those produced in the vacuum above tin.

   " It is evident," he says, " from these general re

sults, that the light (and probably the heat) gene
rated in electrical discharges depends principally on
some properties or substances belonging to the pon
derable matter through which it passes : but they
prove likewise that space, where there is no appre

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  201

ciable quantity of this matter, is still capable of
exhibiting electric phenomena --viz. those of at

traction and repulsion, &c. : a fact unquestionably
favourable to the idea of the phenomena of elec
tricity being produced by a highly subtile fluid or
fluids, of which the particles are repulsive with re
spect to each other, and attractive of the particles of

other matter.

   However much we may admire the experimental

address displayed in this paper, we must confess that

its results are very far from being satisfactory. His
having assumed, without proof, and even without

examination, the theory that a perfect vacuum can
not be produced in the Torricellian tube, and made
it the foundation of his reasonings, appears to me to
have vitiated all his conclusions. Mr. Faraday has
rendered it extremely probable, that a limit does ac
tually exist to the production of vapour by bodies
placed in vacuo,* beneath which they are perfectly

fixed ; and if this be true, it is evident that, at low

temperatures, a perfect vacuum may be produced in

the Torricellian tube ; and it is highly probable that
Davy did thus actually produce one in several of his

experiments ; especially in those where he found that,
by a farther reduction of temperature, no farther di
minution of electrical effect was perceptible : he had

in fact arrived at this limit to vaporization, and there
fore a farther reduction of temperature could not

   * " On the Existence of a Limit to Vaporization. By M. Fara
day, F.R.S. Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of
Sciences at Paris." Phil. Trans. 1826. See also a more recent

paper by the same Philosopher in the first number of the new

202 THE LIFE OF

possibly influence the phenomena. In this point of

view, the electrical light would seem to be primary,
or independent of foreign matter. --But though the

premises be granted, let the reader pause before he

hastens to any conclusion ; for the cloud of mystery

has not been dissipated, it has only changed its place.

At the termination of his paper, Davy indulges in a

conjecture subversive of every conclusion deduced
from experiments in vacuo. " When the intense

heat," says he, "produced by electricity, and the

strong attractive powers of differently electrified sur

faces, and the rapidity of the changes of state, are

considered, it does not seem at all improbable, that

the superficial particles of bodies, which, when de

tached by the repulsive power of heat, form vapour,

may be likewise detached by electrical powers, and

that they may produce luminous appearances in a

vacuum free from all other matter, by the annihila

tion of their opposite electrical states."

During the course of the enquiry, Davy is led to

suppose that air may exist in mercury, in the same

invisible state as it does in water, that      distriis,

                                                        it
buted through its pores and that absorption of air
               if
                         ;

                             is
                                   a
may, therefore, explain the difference of the heights
of the mercury in different barometers. This,

must be confessed, true,              most disheartening

fact, as at once precludes the possibility of any
         a it
thing like accuracy in our barometers but Mr.
                                            ;

Daniell, to whom on all subjects of meteorology we

are bound to pay the greatest deference, differs alto

gether from our philosopher upon this point, and he

adduces        single observation  which  he thinks nearly
disproves      the supposition.           fluids," says he,
                                   " All

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  203

" which are known to absorb air into their pores, in
variably emit it when the pressure of the atmosphere

is removed; but, upon an extensive examination

Iof large bodies of mercury, variously heated in the

vacuum of an air-pump, never saw a bubble of air
given off from the surface of the metal." Davy, it
must be stated, obtained a far different result ; but
                  of Mr. Daniell explains the cause of
an   observation  continues, " will rise from the contact

it.   " Air," he

of the mercury with the glass in which it is con

tained, in exact inverse proportion to the care with

which it has been filled, but it never rises from the

Isurface of the mercury alone. The difficulty of pro

perly filling a barometer tube, attribute to the
attraction between the glass and the air--not to that
between the mercury and the air." *

   On the 13th of June 1822, a memoir was read
before the Royal Society, " On the state of Water

and Aeriform matter in cavities found in certain

Crystals. By Sir Humphry Davy, Bart. P. R. S."

  It is generally admitted by Geologists, that the

greater number of the crystalline substances of the

mineral kingdom must have been previously in a
liquid state ; but different schools have assumed dif

ferent causes for their solution ; some attributing the

effect principally to the agency of water, others to
that of heat.

   In the paper under consideration, the author very

freely avows himself as the champion of the latter

doctrine.

    "Meteorological Essays and Observations," p. 363.-- See also
Bellani's experiments upon this subject, which are so satisfactory as
to remove every doubt from the subject.

 204 THE LIFE OF

    " When it is considered," says he, " that the sol
vent power of water depends upon its temperature,
and its deposition of solid matters upon its change
of state or of temperature, and that, being a gravita

ting substance, the same quantity must always be
long to the globe, it becomes difficult to allow much
weight to the arguments of the Wernerians, or Nep-
tunists, who have generally neglected, in their spe
culations, the laws of chemical attraction.

    " There are many circumstances, on the contrary,
favourable to that part of the views of the Hutto-
nians, or Plutonists, relating to the cause of crystal
lization ; such as the form of the earth, that of an

oblate spheroid flattened at the poles; the facility
with which heat, being a radiating substance, may

be lost and dissipated in free space ; and the obser

vations which seem to show the present existence
of a high temperature in the interior of the globe."

   He had often, he tells us, in the course of his

chemical researches, looked for facts, or experiments,
which might throw some light on this interesting

subject, but without success, till it occurred to him,
as he was considering the state of the fluid and

aeriform matters which are found included in certain

crystals, that these curious phenomena might be
examined in a manner to afford some important ar
guments as to the formation of the crystal itself.

   Having obtained, through the liberality of his
friends, a variety of appropriate specimens of rock-

crystal, he proceeded to submit them to experiment.
Their cavities were opened by means of diamond
drills, under either distilled water, oil, or mercury ;
the gas was then expelled from them by the intro

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  205

duction of slender wires, and the included fluids
were drawn out by the aid of fine capillary tubes.

   As soon as an opening was effected, the fluid

under which the operation had been performed
rushed into the cavity, and the globule of elastic
fluid contracted so as to appear from six to ten times
less than before the experiment. The fluid was

found to be nearly pure water, --the gas appeared to

be azote.

   It was an interesting point to ascertain whether

the same circumstances occurred in productions found

in rocks which have been generally considered as
of igneous origin, such as the basaltic rocks in the
neighbourhood of Vicenza, the chalcedonies of which
so often afford water. On examining such speci
mens, when, to obviate the possibility of any fallacy,
 they were previously ascertained to be impermeable

 to the atmosphere, analogous results were obtained :

 water, containing very minute quantities of saline
 impregnations, was found to be the fluid, and the
 gas, as in the former instances, was ascertained to be
 azote ; but it was in a much more rarefied state than

 in the rock-crystals, being between sixty and seventy

 times as rare as atmospheric air.

    The fact of azote being found in these cavities, he

 explains, by supposing that atmospheric air might
 have been originally included in the crystals, and
 that the oxygen had been separated from it by the
 attraction of the water ; a conjecture which a direct

 experiment appeared to confirm.

    In reasoning upon the vacuum, or rarefied state
 of the aeriform matter in the cavities of rock-crystals
 and chalcedonies, he very justly states, that the phe

206 THE LIFE OF

nomenon cannot be easily accounted for, except on
the supposition of their having been formed at a

higher temperature than that now belonging to the

surface of the globe : and he thinks it most probable

that the water and the silica were in chemical union,

and separated from each other by cooling, since

there are strong grounds for believing that a liquid

hydrate of silica would exist at high temperatures
under pressure, and that, like all liquid bodies in the
Ifatmosphere, it would contain small quantities of
atmospheric air.  this be granted, we may readily

explain the phenomena presented by the gaseous

and liquid matters in rock-crystal and chalcedony.
   Thus then did Davy assail the Neptunists in their

own camp, and vanquish them with their own

weapons ; for the fact, which had been confidently

considered by the disciples of Werner, as, above all

others, hostile to the idea of the igneous origin of

crystalline rocks, namely, the existence of water in

them, has been made to afford a decisive argument

in favour of the very opinion it had been brought

forward to oppose.*

   In an appendix to the foregoing paper, the exami

nation of two other crystals is detailed ; the results

afforded were very different from those of the pre

ceding ones, but not less favourable to the theory of

igneous origin. One of these crystals was found to

contain a bituminous fluid ; on piercing it under dis

* I well remember with what triumph the late Dr. Clarke, in his

popular lectures on Mineralogy at Cambridge, paraded a fine

c"rythstearel  containing water in its cavity. "Gentlemen," said      he,
               is water enough in the very crystals in my cabinet to  ex

tinguish all the fires of the Plutonists."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  207

tilled water, the water rushed in, and entirely filled

the cavity, so that no aeriform matter but the vapour
of the substance could have been present. The fact
of almost a perfect vacuum existing in a cavity con

taining an expansible but difficultly volatile sub

stance, must be considered as highly favourable to
the theory of the igneous origin of crystals.

   In the other crystal, the quantity of aeriform

matter was unusually small in proportion to the
quantity of fluid, and from the peculiarity of its
motion, it appeared to be more likely to be com
pressed than rarefied elastic fluid ; and in piercing
the sides of the cavities, Davy found that this was

the case ; it enlarged in volume from ten to twelve
times; the fluid was water, but the gas was too

minute in quantity to be examined. There is but
one mode of accounting for this phenomenon. The

crystal must have been formed under an immense
weight of atmosphere or fluid, sufficient to produce

a compression much more than adequate to com
pensate for the expansive effects of heat. *

   * An explanation which the experiments of Mr. Faraday, on the
condensation of the gases, to be immediately described, will most

208 THE LIFE OF

                CHAPTER XIII.

The Liquefaction of Chlorine Gas first effected by Mr. Faraday,
   and witnessed by the Author.-- Sir H. Davy continues the inves
   tigation. -- His paper on the application of Liquefiable Gases as
   mechanical agents. -- Other probable uses of these bodies. -- He
    proposes several methods to prevent the fumes which arise from
   Smelting-furnaces. --Importance of the subject. His Letters to
   Mr. Vivian.--The Government solicit the advice of the Royal
   Society on the subject of protecting the Copper Sheathing of

  Ships from the action of sea-water. --Sir H. Davy charges him
   self with this enquiry. -- He proposes a plan of protection found
  ed on Voltaic principles -- His numerous experiments. -- He em

   barks on board the Comet steam-vessel bound to Heligoland, in

  order to try his plan on a vessel in motion. -- He arrives at Man-
  dal, lands, and fishes in the lakes. --The Protectors washed
   away. -- He teaches the inhabitants of Christiansand to crimp
  fish. -- He remains a few days at Arendal. -- A Norwegian dinner.
  --The Protectors are examined and weighed. -- Results of the
  experiment. --The steam-vessel proceeds up the Glommen. -- He

  visits the great waterfall, --Passes into Sweden Has an inter

  view with the Crown Prince of Denmark, and afterwards with
  Prince Christian at Copenhagen. --He visits Professor Oersted. --

  He proceeds to Bremen to see Dr. Olbers. -- Returns to England.
  -- His third paper read before the Royal Society. --Voltaic in
  fluence of patches of rust. --A small quantity of fluid sufficient
  to complete the circuit. --He receives from the Royal Society the
  Royal Medal. --The Progress of Voltaic discovery reviewed.--
  The principle is of extensive application. -- The Author's re

                     SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  209

    An account of the numerous trials of Protectors.-- Failure of the
    plan. -- Report of the French on the state of the protected fri
   gate La Constance. -- Dr. Revere's new plan of Protection.

   Every incident, however trifling, if it relates to

a great scientific discovery, merits the attention of
the historian. As it accidentally occurred to me,

and to me alone, to witness the original experiment

Iby which Mr. Faraday first condensed chlorine gas

into a liquid, shall here state the circumstances

Iunder which its liquefaction was effected.
       had been invited to dine with Sir Humphry
Davy, on Wednesday the 5th of March 1823, for
the purpose of meeting the Reverend Uriah Ton
kin, the heir of his early friend and benefactor of

Ithat name.* On quitting my house for that pur

pose, I perceived that had time to spare, and 1

accordingly called in my way at the Royal Insti

Itution. Upon descending into the laboratory,

found Mr. Faraday engaged in experiments on

chlorine and its hydrate in closed tubes. It appear

ed to me that the tube in which he was operating

Iupon this substance contained some oily matter,

and rallied him upon the carelessness of employing
soiled vessels. Mr. Faraday, upon inspecting the
tube, acknowledged the justness of my remark, and

* Sir Humphry had expressed to me, on the preceding Thurs

day, at the Royal Society, his wish to purchase the old house in

Penzance, which, as the reader will remember, was the early scene

of his chemical operations ; and, at his request, I conversed with

Mr. Tonkin upon the subject ; but it immediately appeared that

the interest which the Corporation of Penzance possessed in the

estate presented an insurmountable obstacle to the accomplish

ment of his object.

VOL. II.             P

210 THE LIFE OF

expressed his surprise at the circumstance. In con

sequence of which, he immediately proceeded to file
off the sealed end ; when, to our great astonishment,

the contents suddenly exploded, and the oily matter

vanished !

Mr. Faraday was completely at a loss to explain

Ithe occurrence, and proceeded to repeat the experi
ment with a view to its elucidation.  was unable,

however, to remain and witness the result.

Upon mentioning the circumstance to Sir Hum

phry Davy after dinner, he appeared much sur

Iprised ; and after a few moments of apparent abs

traction, he said, " shall enquire about this expe

Iriment to-morrow."
   Early on the next morning, received from Mr.

Faraday the following laconic note :

DEAR SIR,

The oil you noticed yesterday turns out to be

liquid chlorine.  Yours faithfully,

                              M. Faraday.

  It is well known that, before the year 1810, the

solid substance obtained by exposing chlorine, as
usually procured, to a low temperature, was consi
dered as the gas itself reduced into that form : Sir
Humphry Davy, however, corrected this error, and

first showed it to be a hydrate, the pure gas not
being condensable even at a temperature of -- 40

Fahrenheit.
   Mr. Faraday had taken advantage of the cold

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                      211

proceeding in its analysis,* when Sir Humphry
Davy suggested to him the expediency of observing

what would happen if it were heated in a close

vessel ; but this suggestion was made in conse

quence of the inspection of results already obtained

by Mr. Faraday, and which must have led him to

the experiment in question, had he never communi

cated with Sir Humphry Davy upon the subject.
This avowal is honestly due to Mr. Faraday.

On exposing the hydrate, in a tube hermetically

sealed, to a temperature of 100, the substance fused,

the tube became filled with a bright yellow atmo

sphere, and, on examination, was found to contain

two fluid substances : the one, about three-fourths

of the whole, was of a faint yellow colour, having
very much the appearance of water ; the remaining

fourth was a heavy, bright yellow fluid, lying at the

bottom of the former, without any apparent ten

dency to mix with it.

By operating on the hydrate in a bent tube her

metically sealed, Mr. Faraday found it easy, after

decomposing it by a heat of 100, to distil the yel

Iflow fluid to one end of the tube, and thus to se
parate it from the remaining portion.  the tube

were now cut in the middle, the parts flew asunder,

as if with an explosion, the whole of the yellow

portion disappeared, and there was a powerful at

mosphere of chlorine produced ; the pale portion,

on the contrary, remained, and when examined,

proved to be a weak solution of chlorine in water,
with a little muriatic acid, probably from the impu

* The results are contained in a short paper in the Quarterly

                       P2

212 THE LIFE OF

rity of the hydrate used. When that end of the
tube in which the yellow fluid lay was broken
under a jar of water, there was an immediate pro
duction of chlorine gas.

   After several conjectures as to the nature of the
changes thus produced, Mr. Faraday arrived at its

true explanation ; viz. that the chlorine had been
entirely separated from the water by the heat, and
condensed into a dry fluid by the mere pressure of its

own abundant vapour. He subsequently confirmed

these views by condensing chlorine in a long tube,
by mechanical pressure, applied by means of a con
densing syringe, and which farther enabled him to
ascertain that the degree of pressure necessary for
this effect was about that of four atmospheres.

   To Mr. Faraday's paper upon this subject, pub

lished in the Philosophical Transactions for the year
1823, Sir Humphry Davy thought proper to add a
" Note on the condensation of muriatic acid gas
into the liquid form."

    The circumstances under which this was effected

are briefly these. On the morning (Thursday,

March 6th,) after Mr. Faraday had condensed chlo
rine, Sir Humphry Davy had no sooner witnessed

 the result, than he called for a strong glass tube,
and, having placed in it a quantity of muriate of

 ammonia and sulphuric acid, and then sealed the

 end, he caused them to act upon each other, and
 thus condensed the muriatic acid, which was evolved,
 into a liquid. The condensation of carbonic acid

Igas, nitrous oxide gas, and several others, were in

 succession treated with similar success ; but, as

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             213

Faraday, I shall confine myself to the relation of

Ithose experiments and deductions which, with equal

justice, must assign to Sir Humphry Davy.
   He observes, " that the generation of elastic sub

stances in close vessels, either with or without heat,

offers much more powerful means of approximat

ing their molecules than those dependent upon the
application of cold, whether natural or artificial :

for, as gases diminish only about ^ in volume for

every -- degree of Fahrenheit's scale, beginning at

ordinary temperatures, a very slight condensation

only can be produced by the most powerful freez

ing mixtures, not half as much as would result from

the application of a strong flame to one part of a
glass tube, the other part being of ordinary tem

perature : and when attempts are made to condense

gases into liquids by sudden mechanical compres
sion, the heat, instantly generated, presents a for

midable obstacle to the success of the experiment ;

whereas, in the compression resulting from their

slow generation in close vessels, if the process be

conducted with common precautions, there is no
source of difficulty or danger ; and it may be easily

assisted by artificial cold in cases when gases ap
proach near to that point of compression and tem

perature at which they become vapours."               to
           17th of   April 1823, he                   of
   On the   Society   a paper " On    communicated
the Royal                            the application

Liquids formed by the condensation of Gases as

mechanical agents."

He states that doubts may, for various philoso

phical reasons, exist as to the economical results

214 THE LIFE OF

under great pressures, and at very elevated tem
peratures ; but that no doubts can arise with re
spect to the use of such liquids as require for their
existence even a compression equal to that of the
weight of thirty or forty atmospheres ; and where
common temperatures, or slight elevations of them,

are sufficient to produce an immense elastic force ;
and when the principal question to be discussed is,
whether the effect of mechanical motion is to be most
easily produced by an increase or diminution of
heat by artificial means.

   With the assistance of Mr. Faraday, he made

several experiments on the differences between the
increase of elastic force in gases under high and
low pressures, by similar increments of tempera

ture. In an experiment made with carbonic acid,
its force was found to be nearly equal to that of air
compressed to one-twentieth at 12 Fah. and of air

compressed to one-thirty-sixth at 32 degrees, making
an increase equal to the weight of thirteen atmo
spheres by an increase of twenty of temperature !

   In applying, however, the condensed gases as
mechanical agents, Davy admits that there will
be some difficulty ; " the materials of the appara

tus must be as strong and as perfectly joined as
those used by Mr. Perkins in his high-pressure
steam-engine : but the small differences of tempe
rature to produce an elastic force equal to the pres
sure of many atmospheres, will render the risk of

explosion extremely small ;" and he adds, " that if

future experiments should realize the views here
developed, the mere difference of temperature be
tween sunshine and shade, and air and water, or

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        215

the effects of evaporation from a moist surface, will

be sufficient to produce results, which have hitherto

Ifbeen obtained only by a great expenditure of fuel."

        this be true, who can say that future genera

tions shall not perform their voyages in gwtf-vessels,

across the Atlantic Ocean, with no other fuel than
Ithat which a common taper may supply ?
                                         fear,

however, that in this scientific reverie, Davy merely
looked at the difference of the sensible tempera

tures, and entirely neglected, in his calculation, the

quantity of heat rendered latent during the change

of the liquid into the gaseous state ; and which,

perhaps, is far more considerable in the applica

tion of these fluids than in that of water ; but even

in this latter case, the great expenditure of heat

in working the steam-engine, is in the portion ren

dered latent, and which cannot, by any contrivance,

be brought again into operation, after it has per

formed its duty. That a philosopher who had,

during the whole progress of his researches, di

rected such unremitting attention to the subject

of Heat, should have wholly overlooked an objec

tion arising out of one of its most familiar pheno

mena, is scarcely less extraordinary than his having,
on another occasion,* advanced to a conclusion in

    I here allude to an anecdote related by Mr. Babbage, in his
" Reflections on the Decline of Science in England ;" a work, by
the by, which strongly reminds me of a practical bull. A gentle

Iman, anxious to escape the tax on armorial bearings, wrote a long

letter to the Commissioners, stating do not know how many rea

sons to show that he could never have used them ; and, after all,
sealed the letter with his own coat of arms ! Had Mr. Babbage

216 THE LIFE OF

direct opposition to the very principle of Electricity,
which his own discoveries had established.

   Davy succeeded in liquefying gases by a method
which, at first view, appears very paradoxical -- by
the application of heat ! The method consists in
placing them in one leg of a bent sealed tube, con
fined by mercury, and applying heat to ether, or
alcohol, or water, in the other end. In this manner,
by the pressure of the vapour of ether, he liquefied
prussic gas and sulphurous acid gas ; which gases,

on being reproduced, occasioned cold.
   There can be little doubt, he thinks, that these

general facts of the condensation of the gases will

decline in this   country, he should never  have  awnreicttdeontea--w"orMk ewehtiincgh
gives the lie to   the title-page. Now for  the

Dr. Wollaston one morning in the shop of a bookseller, I proposed
this question : If two volumes of hydrogen and one of oxygen are

mixed together in a vessel, and if by mechanical pressure they can
be so condensed as to become of the same specific gravity of water,

will the gases, under these circumstances, unite and form water ?

' What do you think they will do V said Dr. W. 1 replied, that I
should rather expect they would unite. ' I see no reason to sup
pose it,' said he. I then enquired whether he thought the experi

ment worth making. He answered, that he did not, for that he

should  think it would     certainly not succeed.            to  Sir  Humphry
        few days after,
   "A                      I proposed the same question

Davy. He at once said, ' They will become water of course :' and

on my enquiring whether he thought the experiment worth making,

he observed that it was a good experiment, but one which it was

har"dlTyhenseecewssearery    to make, as it must succeed.    perhaps be  hardly
                           off-hand answers, which it might

fair to have recorded, had they been of persons of less eminent

talent ; and it adds to the curiosity of the circumstance to mention,
that I believe Dr. Wollaston's reason for supposing no union would

take place, arose from the nature of the electrical relations of the

two gases remaining unchanged : an objection which did not weigh

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  217

have many practical applications. They offer, for
instance, easy methods of impregnating liquids with
carbonic acid and other gases, without mechanical
pressure. They afford means of producing great
diminutions of temperature, by the rapidity with
which large quantities of liquids may be rendered

aeriform ; and as compression occasions similar

effects to cold, in preventing the formation of elastic
substances, there is great reason to believe that it

may be successfully employed for the preservation
of animal and vegetable substances for the purposes
of food.

   Davy might also have added, that the same gene
ral views will explain natural and other phenomena

not previously understood. They certainly afford
a plausible explanation of the nature of blowers in

coal-mines ; and they may lead to more satisfactory
views on other subjects of geology. They assign
a limit to the expansive force of gas under increasing
pressure, and account for effects connected with the
blasting of rocks, which would otherwise appear

anomalous.*

    In the year 1812, Mr. Babbage attempted to ascertain whether

pressure would prevent decomposition : for this purpose, a hole
about thirty inches deep, and two inches in diameter, was bored
downward into a limestone rock, into which was then poured a

quantity of strong muriatic acid, and a conical wooden plug, that
had been previously soaked in tallow, was immediately driven hard
into the mouth of the hole. It was expected either that the decom

position would be prevented, or that the gas developed would split
the rock by its expansive force : but nothing happened. Now, it
is most probable that a part of the carbonic acid had condensed
into a liquid, and thus prevented that developement of power
which Mr. Babbage had expected would have torn the rock

218 THE LIFE OF

   It may be stated, greatly to the honour of Davy,

that there never occurred any question of scientific
interest or difficulty in which he did not cheerfully
offer his advice and assistance. Few Presidents of

the Royal Society have ever exerted their influence
and talents with so much unaffected zeal for the

promotion of scientific objects, and for the welfare
of scientific men. In the year 1821, the Great
Hafod copper-works, in the neighbourhood of Swan
sea, were indicted for a nuisance, in consequence of
the alleged destructive effects of the fumes which
arose during the smelting of the ores. When we
learn that the amount of wages paid by the pro
prietors of the works in this district exceeds 50,000/.
per annum ; that twelve thousand persons, at least,
derive their support from the smelting establish
ments ; that a sum of not less than 200,000/. sterling

is annually circulated in Glamorganshire and the
adjoining county, in consequence of their existence ;

that they pay to the collieries no less than from
100,000/. to 110,000/. per annum for coal; that one

hundred and fifty vessels are employed in the con
veyance of ore, and, supposing each upon an average

to be manned by five seamen, that they give oc
cupation to seven hundred and fifty mariners,

a more serious calamity can scarcely be imagined
than the stoppage of such works : we may therefore
readily believe, that Davy entered most ardently
into the consideration of some plan by which the
fumes might be prevented, and the alleged nui

Sill HUMPHRY DAVY.          219

  IThrough the kind attention of my friend Mr.

Vivian, am enabled to insert the following letters.

TO JOHN HENRY VIVIAN, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR,  London, Jan. 9, 1822.
  IAs you expressed a wish that should commit to
Iwriting those opinions which mentioned in con
Iversation, when had the pleasure of visiting you

at Marino, after inspecting your furnaces and wit

nessing your experiments on the smoke arising from

Ithem, lose no time in complying with your desire.

  It is evident that the copper ore cannot be pro

perly calcined without a copious admission of air

into the furnaces, which must cause the sulphurous

acid gas formed in the calcination to be mixed with
very large quantities of other elastic fluids, which pre
sents great mechanical, as well as chemical difficul

ties to its condensation or decomposition.

   To persons acquainted with chemistry, a number
of modes of effecting these objects are known. Of

condensation, for instance, by water, by the forma
tion of sulphuric acid, by alkaline lixivia, by alka

line earths, &c. Of decomposition, by hydrogen,
by charcoal, by hydro-carbonous substances, and by
metals ; but to most of these methods there are

serious and insurmountable objections, depending
upon the diluted state of the acid gas, and the

expenses required.

   To form sulphuric acid, or to decompose by char
coal or hydrogen, or to condense by alkaline lixivia,
or by alkaline earths, from the nature of the works,
and of the operations for which they were intended,

220 THE LIFE OF

could not be borne; and the only processes which

remain to be discussed are those by hydro-carbonous
substances, and by the action of water.

   There can be no doubt that the gas may be de

composed by the action of heated hydro-carbonous
gases from the distillation of coal ; but for this pur
pose there must be a new construction of the fur

naces, and more than double, probably triple, the

quantity of fuel would be required, supposing even
the Swansea coal to contain the common average of

bitumen ; and this method must be infinitely more

expensive, and liable to many more objections, than
the one you have so ingeniously employed -- absorp

tion by water.

   As water costs nothing, and as a supply is entirely

in your power, the application of it offers compara
tively few difficulties ; and it has the great advan

tage of freeing the smoke from fluoric and arsenious

compounds, which would not be perfectly effected

by any other method.

  The experiments of MM. Phillips and Faraday

prove, that your shower baths have already entirely
destroyed all the fluoric and arsenious fumes of the

smoke, and by a certain quantity of water, the smoke

may undoubtedly be entirely freed from sulphurous

Iacid gas.                                strongly
   This, your own plan, is the one that
recommend to you to proceed with, and, if neces

sary, to extend.

IPerhaps you may find an additional shower bath
near the colder part of the flue useful.  have no

idea that steam passed into the hot part of the flue

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  221

the smoke through the stack, it may tend to con

vert such residual portion of sulphurous acid gas,

exposed to fresh air, into sulphuric acid. Could

you not likewise try a stream of cold water passing

Ialong the bottom of the horizontal flue ?*

      do not think the advantages of your improve

ments can be fairly appreciated, till the effects of

your smoke are determined by actual experiments
                  Yours, &c.
and fair trials.                     H. Davy.

                  TO THE SAME.

I MY DEAR SIR,    London, May 12, 1823.
return you my thanks for the copies you were

so good as to send me of your work on the modes

Iyou have adopted for rendering copper smoke in
noxious, &c.      have read it with very great plea
Isure, and am sure there can be but one feeling,

and that of strong admiration, at the exertions you

have made, and the resources you have displayed,

Iin subduing the principal evils of one of our most
important national manufactures.     trust you will

have no more trouble on this subject, and that it will

only occur to you in an agreeable form, with the

high approbation as well as grateful feelings of your

neighbours ; and that your example will be followed.

  A Committee of the Royal Society has been form

ed for investigating the causes of the decay of cop

Iper sheeting in the Navy, as mentioned to you.

The Navy Board has sent us a number of specimens

   * For the purpose of acting by its cooling power in condensing
vapour, which would carry down sulphurous acid with it. It would

222 THE LIFE OF

of copper in different stages of decay. We have

our first meeting to examine them on Thursday,
Iand shall have much pleasure in communicating
I Ito you our results.
wish could do it in person.
I am going into Hampshire on Sunday next to

fish near Fordingbridge for a week, and to try the

Avon and its tributary streams.

  I was going to give you an account of some

experiments which Mr. Faraday has made by my

directions in generating gases in close vessels as
I I Iliquids, but find have not time.
                                       have already
Ifound an application of this discovery, which hope

will supersede steam, as a difference of a few de

grees of temperature gives the elastic force of many

atmospheres.

  IHoping to see you soon, am, with best respects

to Mrs. Vivian, and love to the charming little

Bessy,

         My dear Sir, yours sincerely obliged,

                                              H. Daw.

  I proceed now to relate the history of an elabo

rate experimental enquiry, instituted for the pur
pose of ascertaining the chemical nature and causes
of the well-known corrosive action of sea-water

upon metallic copper ; in order, if possible, to ob

viate that serious evil in naval economy -- the rapid
decay of the copper sheathing on the bottoms of
our ships. An investigation which Sir Humphry

Davy commenced in the year 1823, and prosecuted
with his characteristic zeal and happy talent during

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  223

as it may appear, the truth of his theory was com
pletely established by the failure of his remedy !

   From the several original documents which have

been placed at my disposal, and from the valuable
communications and kind assistance of my friend

I IMr. Knowles, trust shall be enabled to offer to

the scientific reader a more complete and circum
stantial history of this admirable enquiry than has

been hitherto presented to the public.
   The results he produced are equally interesting

and important, whether we contemplate them bio-
graphically, as indicative of the peculiar genius by

which they were obtained ; or, scientifically, in their
connexion with the electro-chemical theory, to the
farther developement and illustration of which they

have so powerfully contributed ; or, economically,
as the probable means by which the hand of Time

may be averted, an increased durability imparted to
rapidly perishable works of art, and monuments of
human genius transmitted to posterity, in all their
freshness, through a long succession of ages.

  It is probable that, in the earliest period of naval

architecture, some expedient* was practised, in or
der to protect ships' bottoms from the ravages of

marine worms.f The use of metallic sheathing, how

   * Mr. Knowles, in his " Inquiry into the Means which have
been taken to preserve the British Navy," observes, that the first
sheathing was probably the hides of animals covered with pitch,
or with asphaltum, which led to the use of thin boards, having, in
some cases, lime, and in others lime and hair, between them and

the bottom of the ships.

  t The worms infesting the timber of ships are --the Teredo, the

224 THE LIFE OF

ever, is of ancient date. The galley supposed to
have belonged to the Emperor Trajan was sheathed
with sheets of lead, which were fastened with cop
per nails.* The same metal was also used in the

fearlier periods of our naval history ; and it is wor

thy of remark, that the circumstances which led to
its disuse, were the rapid corrosion of the rother
irons, (from the formation of a Voltaic circle,) and
the accumulation of sea-weed.

   In the year 1761, copper plates were first used as
sheathing on the Alarm frigate, of thirty-two guns;}

a second underwent this operation in 1765, a third
in 1770, four in 1776, nine in 1777; and, in the
course of the three following years, the whole Bri-

imported from India, is by far the most destructive ; and I am

informed by Mr. Knowles, that it is more abundant at Plymouth
than on any other part of the coast where there is a dock-yard ;
and although on the shores of England it is not of a very large size,
yet it is a formidable enemy to the safety of those ships which have
not a metallic sheathing to cover their bottoms. In the East In
dies, and off the coast of Africa, the Teredo is of very large size ;
and holes have been bored by them in the timber of at least seven-
eighths of an inch in diameter.

    * Alberti Archeti.

  f In the year 1670, an Act of Parliament was passed, granting

unto Sir Philip Howard and Francis Watson, Esq. the sole use of
the manufacture of milled lead for sheathing ships ; and, in the
year 1691, twenty ships had been sheathed with lead, manufactured
by them, and which was fastened with copper nails. --See Knowlcs's

Inquiry.

   J The copper sheathing was removed from this ship in 1763,

when all the iron was found to be much corroded, the pintles and
braces nearly eaten through, and the false keel lost, from the decay
of the keel staples and the bolt fastenings. Thus, in the very first
coppered ship, the Voltaic effect, produced by the contact of copper

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  225

 tish navy was coppered : an event which may be con

 sidered as forming an important era in the naval
 annals of the country.

    The expense attending the use of copper for this
 purpose, in consequence of its corrosion and decay

 by salt-water, has always been felt as a serious ob

jection to its use, and various suggestions have from

 time to time occurred, and numerous experiments
been made, in the hope of obviating the evil,* but
 without any great degree of success.

    The solution of the metal, however, has been

found to vary in degree at different anchorages : at
Sheerness, for instance, its rapidity is very great, in

consequence of the copper being subjected to the
alternate action of the sea, which flows in there

from the British Channel, and to the flux of water
down the two great rivers, the Thames and Med-
way, loaded, as they necessarily must be, with the
products of animal and vegetable decomposition.

   In order, if possible, to obtain a remedy for this

evil, the naval departments of the Government re
quested, in the latter part of the year 1823, the
advice of the President and Council of the Royal
Society, as to the best mode of manufacturing cop
per sheets, or of preserving them, while in use,
against the corrosive effects of oxidation.

   Sir H. Davy charged himself with this enquiry ;

     An experiment was tried by painting or varnishing their inner
surfaces, but the use of brown paper which has been dipped in tar,

and placed between the wood and copper, is now considered to be

the best mode. A solution of caoutchouc spread on paper was
tried on the bottom of Sir W. Curtis's yacht ; but, on examination,

226 THE LIFE OF

the results of which he communicated to the Royal
Society, in three elaborate memoirs. The first was
read on the 22nd of January 1 824 ; the second, on
the 17th of June, in the same year ; and the third,
and concluding paper, on the 9th of June 1825.

   A very general belief prevailed, that sea-water

had little or no action on pure copper, and that the
rapid decay of that metal on certain ships was
owing to its impurity. On submitting, however,
various specimens of copper to the action of the sea-

water, Sir H. Davy came to a conclusion, in direct

opposition to such an opinion ;* and Mr. Knowles
informed me, in a late conversation upon the sub
ject, that the attempts to purify the metal, since
 the Government has manufactured its own copper
 sheathing, has been the cause of its more rapid

decay. It will however presently appear, that the

relative durability of the metallic sheets must also
be influenced by circumstances wholly independent

     * In two instances, the copper (from the Batavier and from the
 Plymouth yacht) which had remained perfect for twenty-seven
 years, was found to be alloyed. In the former one there was an
 alloy of one three-hundredth part of zinc ; and, in the latter, the
 same proportion of tin. On the other hand, in the case of the
 copper on the Tartar's bottom, which was nearly destroyed in four
 years, upon being submitted to chemical examination by Mr. Phil
 lips, it was found to be very pure copper.

     Alloys of copper have generally been found more durable than
  the unmixed metal ; and various patents have been taken out for
 the fabrication of such compounds ; but metallic sheets so com

  posed have been found to be too hard and brittle, and not to admit
 of that flexibility which is necessary for their application to a
 curved surface; the consequence of which has been, that they

 have cracked upon the ship's bottom.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  227

of their quality, some of which are very probably,
even in our present advanced state of chemical

knowledge, not thoroughly understood.

   Sir H. Davy, on entering upon the examination
of this subject, very justly considered, that to ascer
tain the exact nature of the chemical changes which
take place in sea-water, by the agency of copper,

ought to be the first step in the enquiry ; for, unless

the cause were thoroughly understood, how could
the evil be remedied ?

   On keeping a polished piece of copper in contact
with sea-water, the following were the effects which
successively presented themselves. In the course
of two or. three hours, the surface of the metal ex

hibited a yellow tarnish, and the water in which it
was immersed contracted a cloudiness, the hue of

which was at first white, but gradually became

green. In less than a day, a bluish-green precipi

tate appeared, and constantly continued to accumu
late in the bottom of the vessel ; at the same time,

the surface of the copper corroded, appearing red in
the water, and grass-green where it was in contact

with air. Upon this grass-green matter carbonate
of soda formed ; and these changes continued until
the water became much less saline. The green pre
cipitate he ascertained to consist of an insoluble
compound of copper, (which he thinks may be con
sidered as a hydrated sub-muriate,) and hydrate of
magnesia. *

   According to his own views of the nature of chlo
rine, he immediately perceived that neither soda nor

* The Muriate of Magnesia is the most active salt in sea-water.

Q2

228 THE LIFE OF

magnesia could appear in sea-water by the action of
a metal, unless in consequence of an absorption or
transfer of oxygen, which in this case must either
be derived from the atmosphere, or from the decom

position of water: his experiments determined that
the former was the source which supplied it. By
reasoning upon these phenomena, and applying for
their explanation his electro-chemical theory, which

had shown that chemical attractions may be exalted,
modified, or destroyed, by changes in the electrical
states of bodies, he was led to the discovery of a
remedy for the corrosion of copper, by the very
principle which enabled him, sixteen years before,

to decompose the fixed alkalies.
   When he considered that copper is but weakly

positive in the electro-chemical scale, and that it

can only act upon sea-water when in a positive

state, it immediately occurred to him that, if it

could be rendered slightly negative, the corroding
action of sea-water upon it would be null. But how

was this to be effected? At first, he thought of

using a Voltaic battery ; but this could hardly be
applicable in practice. He next thought of the
contact of zinc, tin, or iron ; but he was prevented
for some time from trying this, by the recollection
that the copper in the Voltaic battery, as well as
the zinc, was dissolved by the action of dilute nitric
acid ; and by the fear, that too large a mass of oxid-

able metal would be required to produce decisive
results. After reflecting, however, on the slow and
weak action of sea-water on copper, and the small

difference which must exist between their electrical

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  229

action would be destroyed by a very feeble electri

cal force, he was encouraged to proceed ; and the

Aresults were highly satisfactory and conclusive.

piece of zinc, not larger than a pea, or the point of a
small iron nail, was found fully adequate to preserve
forty or fifty square inches of copper, -- and this,
wherever it was placed, whether at the top, bottom,
or in the middle of the sheet of copper, and whether

the copper was straight or bent, or made into coils.

And where the connexion between the different
pieces of copper was completed by wires, or thin
filaments of the fortieth or fiftieth of an inch in dia

meter, the effect was the same ; every side, every

surface, every particle of the copper, remained bright ;
whilst the iron, or the zinc, was slowly corroded.

  A piece of thick sheet copper, containing on both

sides about sixty square inches, was cut in such a
manner as to form seven divisions, connected only
by the smallest filaments that could be left, and a
mass of zinc, of the fifth of an inch in diameter, was

soldered to the upper division. The whole was

plunged under sea-water ; the copper remained per
fectly polished. The same experiment was repeated
with iron, and after the lapse of a month, the copper
was in both instances found as bright as when it was
first introduced ; whilst similar pieces of copper, un

defended, underwent in the same water very con
siderable corrosion, and produced a large quantity of
green deposit in the bottom of the vessel.

    Numerous other experiments were performed, and
with results equally conclusive of the truth of the

theory which had suggested them.
    There was however one point which still re

230 THE LIFE OF

mained for enquiry. As the ocean may be con
sidered in its relation to the quantity of copper in a
ship, as an infinitely extended conductor, it became

necessary to ascertain whether that circumstance

would influence the results. For this purpose, he

placed two very fine copper wires, one undefended,
the other defended by a particle of zinc, in a very
large vessel of sea- water, which water might be con
sidered to bear the same relation to so minute a

portion of metal, as the sea to the metallic sheathing
of a ship. The result was perfectly satisfactory.
The defended copper underwent no change ; the un

defended tarnished, and deposited a green powder.*
    Davy having thus satisfied his own mind as to

the truth of his views, communicated to Govern
ment, in January 1824, the important fact of his
having discovered a remedy for the evil of which

   * During the course of some experiments in which I have been

lately engaged, a simple mode of exhibiting the principle of pro
tection occurred to me, which, I believe, has not before been sug

gested ; at least, I cannot find any notice of such an experiment.
As I consider it admirably calculated for illustration, I will here

describe it. Let two slips of copper of equal size, the one pro
tected with a piece of zinc, the other unprotected, be plunged into
two wine-glasses filled with a solution of ammonia. In a short
time, the liquor containing the unprotected copper will assume an
intensely blue colour ; the other will remain colourless for any length
of time. The theory is obvious. When metallic copper is placed
in contact with an ammoniacal solution, a protoxide of the metal
is formed which is colourless, -- and will remain so, if the contact of

air be prevented ; but on exposure to the atmosphere, it passes
into a state of peroxide, which is dissolved by the ammonia, and
produces an intensely blue solution. In the case of the protected
copper, the metal is incapable of attracting a single atom of
oxygen, in consequence of having been rendered negative by the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  231

they had complained ; and that the corrosion of the
copper sheathing of his Majesty's ships might be

prevented by rendering the copper electro-positive,
by means of the contact of tin, zinc, lead, iron, or

any other easily oxidable metal ; and that he was

prepared to carry his plan into effect.

  A proposition from a philosopher of such known

science, and upon a subject of such great importance
to the navigation and commerce of the country,
immediately obtained all the attention it deserved ;
and an order was made that the plan of protection
should, under the superintendence of Sir H. Davy, be
forthwith tried upon the bottom of a sailing cutter.

   To give to his discovery farther publicity, Sir
Humphry requested that three models of ships might
be exhibited in the spacious hall of the Navy Office
in Somerset House ; the copper of one of which
he proposed should be protected by bands of zinc,
that of another by plates of wrought iron soldered
on the sheathing, while the third should have its
copper exposed without any protection whatever.

   These models were floated in sea-water for several

months ; and the experiment fully confirmed the
results he had previously obtained in his laboratory.
The models were from time to time examined by

persons of the highest scientific character, as well as
by others of great naval celebrity ; and so alluring

was the theory, and so conclusive the experiments,
that, instead of waiting the result of the slow but

more certain ordeal to which the plan had been sub

mitted, it was immediately put into extensive prac

tice, both in the Government service and on the

232 THE LIFE OF

   To those the least acquainted with the principles
of Voltaic action, it was only necessary to state the

proposition, in order to command their assent to
its truth. The utility of the plan therefore was
never questioned, but the claims of Davy to the
originality of the invention were doomed to meet

with immediate opposition.*
   The correctness of the principle having been esta

blished, it became, in the next place, necessary to

determine the most eligible metal to be used for

protection ; the proportion which it must bear to
the surface of the copper-sheathing below the water-

line ; the form least likely to offer resistance to the
sea, and to impede the sailing of the vessel ; and

lastly, its most convenient position on the ship's
bottom. To ascertain these several points, Lord
Melville and the Lords of the Admiralty desired
the Commissioners of the Navy Board, and of the

Dock-yards, to afford Sir Humphry every assistance

and facility for prosecuting the necessary experi
ments ; and he accordingly made many very exten

* Amongst other counter-claims, there appeared, in a weekly

publication entitled "The Mechanic's Magazine," a statement in

afadvvoeurrtisoefmaepnetrsinon"  of the name  of Wyatt, founded on the following
                                 The World"
                                              newspaper of April 16, 1791. "By

the King's Patent, tinned copper sheets and pipes manufactured

and sold by Charles Wyatt of Birmingham. These sheets, amongst

other advantages, are particularly recommended for sheathing of

ships, as they possess all the good properties of copper, with others
obviously superior." It is unnecessary to observe that, except their

object, there is nothing in common in the inventions of Davy and

Wyatt. The superiority claimed by Wyatt consisted merely in

coating the copper with some substance less corrosive by sea-

water than that metal : an idea borrowed from the common prac

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                   233

sive trials, not only on copper sheets which were
immersed in the sea, but also on the bottoms of a

considerable number of boats which had been cop

pered for that purpose, and exposed to the flow of

the tide in Portsmouth harbour ; upon which occa

sions he varied the nature as well as the proportions

of the protecting metal. The results were commu

nicated to the Royal Society, and they constituted

the materials for his second memoir on the subject.

"When the metallic protector was from 55 to
parts of its surface, there was no corrosion nor
jf0
                         5^

                                a

                                              ;

                              it

                                                    a
                                                                              a
decay of the copper with smaller quantities, such

as from  to  the copper underwent loss of

weight, which was greater in proportion as the pro

tector was smaller; and, as proof of the univer

sality of the principle, was found that even part

of cast iron saved certain proportion of the copper.
   " The sheeting of boats and ships, protected by

the contact of zinc, or cast and malleable iron in

different proportions, compared with those of similar

boats and sides of ships unprotected, exhibited bright

surfaces whilst the unprotected copper underwent
a
rapid corrosion, becoming first red, then green, and
   ;
losing part of its substance in scales. Fortunately,
in the course of these experiments,
                                     is it  was proved

that cast iron, the substance which cheapest and

most easily procured, likewise most fitted for the

protection of the copper. It lasts longer than mal
             ;

                    is
leable iron, or zinc and the plumbaginous substance

iswhich left by the action of sea-water upon re                                  it,

tains the original form of the iron, and does not im

pede the electrical action of the remaining metal."

234 THE LIFE OF

been suggested by'Mr.Knowles,and several other per
sons, that by rendering the copper innoxious, it was

probable sea-weeds might adhere to the sheets ; but

this objection he answered by stating, that negative
electricity could not be supposed favourable to ani

mal and vegetable life ; and as it occasioned the
deposition of magnesia, a substance exceedingly noxi

ous to land vegetables, upon the copper surface, he
entertained no difficulty upon that subject : in this,

however, he was fatally mistaken. He found, after
a trial of several weeks, that the metallic surface
became coated with carbonate of lime and magnesia,

and that, under such circumstances, weeds adhered

to the coatings, and marine insects collected upon

i,them ; but at the same time he observed, that when

the proportion of cast iron, or zinc, was below the
electrical power of the copper being less negative,
no such deposition occurred ; and that although the
surface had undergone a slight degree of solution, it

remained perfectly clean : a fact which he considered

of great importance, as it pointed out the limits of
protection ; and makes the application of a very small
quantity of the oxidable metal more advantageous,
in fact, than that of a larger one.

   During the course of these experiments, many
singular facts occurred to him, which tended to con
firm his views of electro-chemical action. Amongst
the various details which remained for his investiga
tion, the relations between the surface of the pro
tector, and that of the copper sheathing, under the
different circumstances of temperature, saltness of
the sea, and rapidity of the ship's motion, presented

                            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

 opportunity occurred which enabled him to pursue

 them by actual observation and experiment.

    In the month of June 1824, a steam-vessel, H. M.
ship the Comet, was, at the express request of the
 King of Denmark, ordered to proceed to Heligo
land, for the purpose of fixing with precision, by
means of numerous chronometers, the longitude of
that island, in order to connect the Danish with the
British survey ; and the Board of Longitude having

recommended that the voyage should be extended
as far as the Naze of Norway, for the purpose of
ascertaining also the longitude of that important

point, Sir H. Davy thought that this vessel would

afford him the means of performing his desired ex

periments upon protected and unprotected copper
sheets, when under the influence of rapid motion ;
and upon application to the Board of Admiralty,
he obtained the entire disposal of the vessel after

the required observations had been completed, as
long as the season would allow her going to sea;

and, that every facility might be afforded him, a
skilful carpenter was put on board, to prepare what
ever might be necessary for the prosecution of the

enquiry.

  IFor the following account of his adventures upon

this occasion am indebted to Dr. Tiarks, who, in

his character of astronomical observer, superintended

the expedition.

   In the first instance, Davy directed to be con
structed a number of oblong, rectangular, thin plates
of copper, the surface of which should exceed that
of a square foot : in the centre of these plates was

236 THE LIFE OF

pieces of copper, which had small plates of iron of
various dimensions attached to them, were fixed to

the plate, by merely sliding them into the groove
thus prepared for their reception. The plates were

all carefully weighed previously to the experiment,
and the pieces of iron were considered as representing
the various proportions of iron and copper surfaces

within whose limits Sir H. Davy had been led, by

former experiments, to expect that the best pro
portion would be found. These plates were after
wards slipped into wooden frames, and nailed to the
ship's side, over a piece of thick canvass, for the
purpose of intercepting every possible communi

cation between them and the copper sheathing.

   It was proposed that, after each trip, these plates

should be accurately weighed, in order to ascertain

the loss which they severally might sustain from the
corrosive action of the sea, while thus protected by
different proportions of iron surface ; and, to ensure
every possible accuracy, he carried with him the
excellent balance, constructed by Ramsden, which
is in possession of the Royal Society.

   Sir H. Davy, accompanied by Lord Clifton, em
barked at Greenwich on the 30th of June, and the
vessel arrived at Heligoland on the 2nd of July.

Here, as they remained not more than one day, the
plates were not examined, although the Master ex
pressed strong doubts as to their safety. The vessel
then proceeded, by order of Sir Humphry, to Nor
way, a country which he was, for several reasons,
very desirous of visiting, especially for the sake of
determining a doubtful point in ornithology, upon

which he subsequently corresponded with Professor

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  237

   The difference of longitude, also, between that
country and Greenwich, not having been accurately
ascertained, offered perhaps an additional reason for
thus deviating from a course which, it must be con
fessed, was at variance with the original plan of the

expedition.

  After a severe gale of wind on the 4th of July,

the vessel arrived, on the day following, at Rleve,
near Mandal, and afterwards proceeded to this latter

place, at which Davy remained for several days,

during which interval the vessel made a tour to the
Naze, and took in coal.

   On the arrival of the vessel in the port, the plates
were immediately examined ; but, to the great dis
appointment of Sir Humphry, it was discovered
that every one of the protectors had been washed
away, and that most of the plates had sustained

considerable injury.
   With the country around Mandal he was much

pleased ; for, although it is far from being fertile,

the scenery is rendered exceedingly striking and

beautiful by the numerous lakes which wash the
feet of high and sometimes perpendicular moun
tains, at that time clothed with the rich verdure of

their summer herbage.
   Sir Humphry made several excursions into the

interior of the country, and derived much amuse
ment from angling in the lakes ; and had it not
been from his own inspection of the roads, and the

information which he collected respecting them,
together with an indisposition of his fellow-traveller,
Lord Clifton, he would have made an extensive

land journey through the country ; but, under the

238 THE LIFE OF

England through Denmark and Germany. He

therefore at once resolved to take the steam-boat

with him as far as Sweden, where the excellent

roads would enable him, without inconvenience, to

reach Gottenburg, and thence to continue his route
through Denmark to Germany. The vessel pro
ceeded accordingly to Christiansand, the chief town
of a country of the same name.

   Having been provided with some spare plates and
protectors, he fixed them to the ship's side at Man-

dal, as he was informed that the voyage could be
entirely performed within the rocks, with which
the whole coast of Norway is so plentifully studded ;
but a short traverse through an open part of the sea,
not far from Mandal, again defeated his object.
The protectors were washed away, and no result was

obtained.

  At Christiansand he remained a few days, in order

to try some new plates, which were constructed
there under his own inspection. Upon this occasion
he made an excursion to the falls of the Torjedahl,
distant about six miles from the town. The river
abounds with salmon, which were easily caught in

their descent from the falls, by an apparatus con
trived for that purpose. Sir Humphry amused him
self by teaching the inhabitants the operation of
crimping, and he declared the flavour of the fish to
be superior to any salmon he had ever tasted.

  It was at Christiansand that he became acquainted

with the Norwegian race of ponies, so well adapted
for mountainous countries ; and which, at his recom
mendation, were afterwards introduced into Eng

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  239

   From Christiansand the vessel proceeded on her

route eastward to Arendal, where she arrived on the

12th, after a passage of only a few hours. The
route lay entirely within the rocks, --and so narrow

were the passages, that the vessel could frequently

not pass the rocks on either side without touching

them.

  At Arendal, which is the chief place of a remark

able mining district, Sir Humphry was well received

by the Messrs. Dedehamys, two brothers, and the
leading merchants of the place, with whom he made

several excursions to the neighbouring mines. He

was also invited by them to meet at their beautiful
country seats the most respectable inhabitants of

the town.

   In the house of Mr. Dedehamy, Davy was intro

duced into Norwegian society, and, for the first
time, had an opportunity of witnessing the customs
and manners of the country.

  A short time before dinner, the guests were sum

moned to partake of pickled fish, anchovies, and
smoked salmon, with rum, brandy, and wine, which

were placed on small tables in the drawing-room in
which the company assembled. This custom of

taking salt provisions, together with spirits, just
before dinner, is very general in the North, and is
considered as the best means of preparing the sto
mach, and of provoking an appetite for the ap

proaching meal.
    The very numerous party, which, with the ex

ception of the hostess and her daughter, consisted
entirely of men, were then ushered into two large

rooms, one not being sufficiently spacious to accom

 240 THE LIFE OF

 modate them, and each person took his seat promis

cuously. At the beginning of the dinner, large

basins filled with sugar were carried round by the
host's daughter, followed by a servant, from which
each gentleman took a large handful. Sir Hum

phry, surprised at so singular a ceremony, enquired
its meaning ; when the host very good-humouredly

answered, that in Norway they thought, if the wine
was good it could not be spoiled by sugar, -- and if

bad, that it would be improved by it. Davy imme
diately followed the example of the company, and
helped himself to the sugar.

   Amongst the party present were several members
of the Diet (Storthing), which had recently refused
the applications of the King for various grants of
money. This subject excited much animated con
versation, and the majority of the persons present
expressed their approbation at so bold and inde
pendent a measure. This called forth a political
toast relating to the situation of their country ; when
the whole company, elated with wine and conversa
tion, simultaneously burst forth into the national
chorus of Norway, which had been composed as a

prize poem during the short struggle against the
union of that country with Sweden, and which was
much admired by the Norwegians, and on all occa
sions sung by them with the utmost enthusiasm of
feeling ; but, notwithstanding the liberal politics of

the party, they drank Sir Humphry's toast-- " The
King of Norway and Sweden" --with much

apparent loyalty.

  A succession of toasts followed, the last of which
recommended " The British Constitution as a

SIH HUMPHRY DAVY.        241

model foe all the world." With this senti

ment the festivities concluded -- a momentary si

lence ensued ; the custom of the country assigned

to a stranger the honourable office of returning to
the host and hostess the thanks of the company for

their hospitable reception ; all eyes were anxiously

fixed upon the English philosopher ; and as soon as

he was made acquainted with the duty he was ex

pected to perform, he rose from his seat, and in

allusion to the sentiment so recently drunk in com

pliment to himself,   he proposed as a concluding

toast, "Norwegian     hospitality a model for

ALL THE WORLD."

From Arendal the vessel proceeded to Laurvig,

where she stopped only a few hours ; but Sir Hum

phry seized this opportunity to go on shore to view

the country, and he afterwards weighed the copper

plates which had been attached to the ship in Chris-

tiansand, as the vessel was now to cross that deep

bay, at the bottom of which is situated Christiana,
the capital of the kingdom. The few plates were

found to be in good order ; and the results, which

however must be allowed to have been very incom

plete, confirmed, as far as they went, the conclusions

to which he had been led by former experiments,

viz. that of iron surface was the proportion best

calculated to defend the copper, without so over-
protecting it as to favour the adhesion of marine

productions ; while they moreover proved that there
is a mechanical as well as a chemical wear of the

copper, which, in the most exposed part of the ship,
and in the most rapid course, bears a relation to it

of nearly 2 to 4.55.  R

   vol. n.

 242 THE LIFE OF

    The country increased in fertility towards the
 eastern parts of it ; but it possessed much less
 beauty than the neighbourhood of Mandal.

    As soon as Davy perceived that the vessel had to
pass near the mouth of the Glommen, the largest
river of Norway, he directed that she should enter

it. Steam-boats appeared to have been entirely un
known in that part of the country. The inhabitants
of the town of Frederickstadt were alarmed by the
belief that the vessel was on fire, and they ran down

to the beach in multitudes. As the vessel proceeded

up the river, the people every where left their work,
looked on awhile in silent amazement, and then

shouted with delight.
   The vessel anchored a mile below the great fall of

the Glommen, called Sarpen, and which Davy vi
sited on the following day (July 15). Three Kings
of Denmark have visited this fall, and a name com

memorates the spot whence they viewed this grand
scene of nature. The fall is not one perpendicular
descent, but consists of three sheets of water closely
succeeding each other; and, by means of a barometer,
he ascertained the entire altitude to be little more

than a hundred feet. In comparing the character
of this waterfall with those of the others he had

visited, he observes, that size is merely comparative ;
and that he prefers the Velino at Terni, on account

of the harmony that exists in all its parts. It dis

plays all the force and power of the element, in its

rapid and precipitous descent ; and you feel that
even man would be nothing in its waves, and would
be dashed to pieces by its force. The whole scene

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       2V3

almost as sublime as that of the Glommen, where

the river is at least one hundred times as large ; for

the Glommen falls, as it were, from a whole valley

upon a mountain of granite ; and unless where you
see the giant pines of Norway, fifty or sixty feet in

height, carried down by it and swimming in its

whirlpools like straws, you have no idea of its mag

nitude and power. Considering these waterfalls in

all their relations, he is disposed to think, that while

that of Velino is the most perfect and beautiful, the

fall of the Glommen is the most awful.

On both sides of this fall are extensive saw-mills,

with machinery of very imperfect construction.

Davy spent some time with the proprietors of these

mills, who were acquainted with the English lan

guage, and showed him every attention in their

power. As an angler, he spoke with regret of the

immense quantity of sawdust which floated in the

water, and formed almost hills along the banks, and

which, he observed, must be poisonous to the fish,

by sometimes choking their gills, and interfering

with their respiration.

From the Glommen the steam-vessel passed

through the Svinesund to Stromstadt, the first town

in Sweden beyond the frontier of Norway, from
XII.which Charles
                         essayed to besiege the neigh

bouring fortress of Frederickstadt in Norway.

From Stromstadt, Davy set out on the 17th of July,

and reached Gottenburg by land in two days, where

he remained for a short time, in consequence of a

slight indisposition. On his journey, he had a con

versation with Oscar, the Crown Prince of Den

                         r2

244 THE LIFE OF

diligently devoted himself to the study of chemistry.
He conversed with our philosopher upon various
subjects connected with that science ; and Davy, on
his return to England, declared that he had never
met with a more enlightened person.

   The Crown Prince expressed great surprise, as
indeed did every body in Sweden, on hearing that it
was not Davy's intention to visit Professor Berze-
lius at Stockholm ; and his astonishment was still
farther increased, when he was informed by himself,

that he came to Norway and Sweden with no other
view than to enjoy the diversion of hunting and

fishing ! He however did by accident afterwards
meet Berzelius, but his interview was but of short

duration.
   From Gottenburg he hastened to Copenhagen,

where he renewed his acquaintance with Prince
Christian of Denmark, cousin of the King, and heir
presumptive of the crown ; in whose company he
had some years before observed an eruption of
Mount Vesuvius. He also visited Professor Oersted,

and earnestly requested that he might see the ap
paratus by which that philosopher had made those
electro-magnetic experiments which had rendered

his name so celebrated throughout Europe.

   He next proceeded to Neuburg and Altona, where

he intended to reimbark for England in the steam-
vessel which had, during the interval of his conti

nental tour, made a voyage to England, and was

again on her way to the Elbe. At the suggestion,

however, of Professor Schumacher, the astronomical

professor at Copenhagen, but residing at Altona, in

           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                             245

he accompanied that gentleman to Bremen, in order
to make the acquaintance of the venerable Dr.

Olbers, who, since his retirement from an extensive

medical practice, had entirely devoted his time to

the pursuit of his favourite science astronomy ; as

well as to be introduced to Professor Gauss, of Got-

tingen, who happened to be at that time carrying

on his geodetical operations for the admeasurement
of the kingdom of Hanover.

Davy expressed a great desire to see the tele

scope with which Dr. Olbers had discovered the two

planets, Pallas and Vesta, and which to his great

surprise turned out to be a very ordinary instru

ment. His personal intercourse with these two

celebrated philosophers appeared to afford him the

highest satisfaction ; and he spent two days most

agreeably  "inSathlmeoirnisao,"ciehtye.  gives  us some  account  of

   In his

his adventures as an angler during this short excur
sion to Norway and Sweden. " All the Norwegian
Irivers," says he, " that
                                         tried (and they were in the
Isouthern parts) contained salmon.
                                                fished in the

Glommen, one of the largest rivers in Europe ; in

the Mandals, which appeared to me the best fitted

for taking salmon ; and in the Arendal ; but, though

I Isaw salmon rise in these rivers, never took a fish
Ilarger than a sea-trout ; of these always caught

many -- and even in the fiords, or small inland salt

Iwater bays ; but, think, never any one more than
Ia pound in weight. It is true that was in Nor

way in the beginning of July, in exceedingly bright

weather, and when there was no night ; for even at

246 THE LIFE OF

Ismallest print in the columns of a newspaper.
Iwas in Sweden later --in August : fished in the

magnificent Gotha, below that grand fall, Trollhetta,
Iwhich to see is worth a voyage from England ; but
Inever raised there any fish worth taking.
                                            caught,

Iin this noble stream, a little trout about as long as

my hand ; and the only fish got to eat at Troll

hetta was bream."

He again embarked, on the 14th of August, on

board the Comet steam-vessel, which had ascended

the Weser as high as her draught of water would

allow, and reached England, after a very boisterous

passage, on the 17th of the same month ; indeed,

the vessel left the mouth of the Weser with a con

trary wind, and the pilot was unwilling to put to
sea, but Davy insisted on proceeding without delay.

During the whole passage he suffered extremely
from sea-sickness, and in a letter written to Profes

sor Schumacher, shortly after landing, he remarks
that " the sea is a glorious dominion, but a wretched

habitation."

   On the 9th of June 1825, Sir Humphry read be
fore the Royal Society his third and most elaborate
paper upon Copper sheathing, entitled " Farther
Researches on the Preservation of Metals by Elec

tro-chemical Means."

   In this memoir, he states it to be his belief, that

there is nothing in the poisonous nature of the cop
per to prevent the adhesion of weeds and testaceous

animals ; for he observes, that they will readily ad
here to the poisonous salts of lead which commonly

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  247

keel ; and even upon copper, provided it be in such
a state of chemical combination as to be insoluble.

It is then, in his opinion, the solution of the metal --

the wear of its surface, by keeping it smooth, which
prevents the adhesion of foreign matter. When
ever the copper is unequally worn, deposits will,
without doubt, rest in the rough parts, or depres
sions in the metal, and afford a soil or bed in which

sea-weeds can fix their roots, and to which zoophytes
and shell-fish can adhere ; but there is another cause
of foulness on the protected sheathing, arising from
the deposit of earthy matter upon the copper, in
consequence of its electro- negative condition.

   In relation to this subject, Davy has offered some

observations upon the effects produced by partial
formations of rust, which appear to me to be ex

ceedingly interesting and important.
   When copper has been applied to the bottom of a

ship for a certain time, he says, a green coating, or
rust, consisting of oxide, sub-muriate, and carbonate
of copper, forms upon it ; not equally throughout,
but partially, and which, it is evident, must pro

duce a secondary, partial, and unequal action, since
those substances are negative with respect to metal
lic copper, and will consequently, by producing with
it a Voltaic circuit, occasion a more rapid corrosion
of those parts still exposed to sea-water : from this
cause, sheets are often found perforated with holes
in one part, after having been used for five or six

years ; while in other parts they are comparatively

sound.* In like manner, the heads of the mixed

   * The rusting of a common piece of iron, if carefully inspected,

248 THE LIFE OF

metal nails, consisting of copper alloyed by a small
quantity of tin, which are in common use in the
Navy, give rise to oxides that are negative with
respect to the copper, so that the latter is often
worn into deep and irregular cavities in their

vicinity.

   A series of very interesting experiments, fully

detailed in this memoir, which were instituted for
the purpose of ascertaining the extent of the dimi
nution of electrical action in instances of imperfect
or irregular conducting surfaces, led him to the
general conclusion, that a very small quantity of the
imperfect or fluid conductor was sufficient to trans
mit the electrical power, or to complete the chain.

This induced him to try whether copper, if nailed

upon wood, and protected merely by zinc or iron on
 its under surface, or on that next the wood, might
not be defended from corrosion : a question of great
practical moment with regard to the arrangement of

protectors. For this purpose, he covered a piece of
 wood with small sheets of copper, a nail of zinc of
 about ^ part of the surface having been previously

 driven into the wood : the copper surface remained
 perfectly bright in sea-water for many weeks ; and
 when the result was examined, it was found that

 the zinc had only suffered partial corrosion ; that
 the wood was moist, and that, on the interior of the
 copper there was a considerable portion of revived
 zinc, so that the negative electricity, by its opera-

 oxide, at first a mere speck, and formed perhaps by a globule of
 water, becomes negative with respect to the contiguous surface, and
 by thus forming a Voltaic circuit, exalts its oxidability,and the rust

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  249

tion, provided materials for its future and constant

excitement. In several trials of the same kind, iron

was used with similar results ; and in all these expe

riments there appeared to be this peculiarity in the
appearance of the copper, that unless the protecting

metal below was in a large mass, there were no de
positions of calcareous or magnesian earths upon the
metal; it was clean and bright, but never coated.
The copper in these experiments was nailed some

times upon paper, sometimes upon the mere wood,

and sometimes upon linen ; and the communication

was partially interrupted between the external and

internal surfaces by cement; but even one side or
junction of a sheet seemed to allow sufficient com

munication between the moisture on the under sur

face and the sea-water without, to produce the elec
trical effect of preservation. This last experiment
of Davy is of greater importance than may at first
appear, in showing what a small proportion of con

Iducting fluid will complete a circuit, and in thus

explaining phenomena, as shall presently show,

which might not otherwise be suspected to have an

electrical origin.

    These results upon perfect and imperfect con

 ductors led him to another enquiry, important as it
relates to the practical application of the principle,
namely, as to the extent and nature of the contact

 or relation between the copper and the preserving

metal. He was unable to produce any protecting
action of zinc or iron upon copper through the
 thinnest stratum of air, or the finest leaf of mica, or

 of dry paper ; but the action of the metals did not

a it,250 THE LIFE OF

                                 aof oxide or rust; nor was it destroyed when the
finest bibulous, or silver-paper, as it is commonly
called, was between them, being moistened with
sea-water. He made an experiment with different
folds of this paper. Pieces of copper were covered
with one, two, three, four, five, and six folds ; and

over them were placed pieces of zinc, which were
fastened closely to them by thread ; each piece of
copper, thus protected, was exposed in a vessel of
sea-water, so that the folds of paper were all moist.

   It was found in the case in which a single leaf of

paper was between the zinc and the copper, there
was no corrosion of the copper ; in the case in which

there were two leaves, there was a very slight effect ;
with three, the corrosion was distinct; and it in

creased, till with six folds the protecting power ap
peared to be lost ; and in the case of the single leaf,

the result differed only from that produced by im

mediate contact, in there not being any deposition
of earthy matter. Other experiments likewise
proved that there was no absolute contact of the

metals through the moist paper; for, although a
thin plate of mica, as before stated, entirely de
stroyed the protecting effect of zinc, yet when a
hole was made in so as to admit very thin layer
of moisture between the zinc and copper, the corro
sion of the latter, though not prevented, was consi
derably diminished.

   The experimental part of this paper concludes
with an account of various trials to determine the
electro-chemical powers of metals in menstrua out of

the contact, or to certain extent removed from the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         251

rapid waste of the protecting metals. In the pro

gress of these experiments he exhibits, in a most

beautiful manner, the singular effect of different

proportions of a fixed alkali, when mixed with sea-

water, in rendering the iron, in its Voltaic connec

tion with copper, more or less negative.
   He terminates the paper with some observations

of a practical nature, relative to the best modes of

rendering iron applicable to the purposes of protec

tion ; but, as these have been already embodied in

the investigation, it is not necessary to notice them

Ifarther in this place.

   That may give to the history of this subject all
Ithe perspicuity which it can derive from the con

nexion of its several parts, shall now, in defiance
oBfakcehrrioannolLoegcitcuarle,or"deOr,n
                                          proceed to consider his last

                                           the Relations of Electrical

Changes," which was read before the Royal Society,
on the 8th of June 1826. In which, after referring

to his former papers on the chemical agencies of

electricity, and the general laws of decomposition

which were developed in them, he enters into some

historical details respecting the origin and progress

of electro-chemical science ; being induced so to do,

from a knowledge of the very erroneous statements

which had been published upon the subject abroad,

and repeated in this country. At the conclusion of

this lecture, in reverting to the subject of Voltaic

protection, he says: " A great variety of experiments,

made in different parts of the world, have proved

the full efficacy of the electro-chemical means of

preserving metals, particularly the copper sheathing

252 THE LIFE OF

peculiar electrical state would prevent the adhesion
of weeds or insects, has not been realized ; protected
ships have often indeed returned, after long voy
ages, perfectly bright,* and cleaner than unpro
tected ships ; yet this is not always the case ; and
though the whole of the copper may be preserved
from chemical solution in steam-vessels (from the
rapidity of their motion) by these means, -- yet they
must be adopted in common ships only so as to pre
serve a portion, -- so applied, as to suffer a certain

solution of the copper ;f and an absolute remedy

for adhesions is to be sought for by other more re
fined means of protection, and which appear to be
indicated by these researches.

  I" The nails used in ships are an alloy of copper

and tin, which find to be slightly negative with
respect to copper, and it is on these nails that the
first adhesions uniformly take place : a slightly posi
tive and slightly decomposable alloy would probably

    * The Carnbrea Castle, a large vessel, of upwards of six hundred
and fifty tons, was furnished with four protectors, two on the stern,
and two on the bow, equal together to about 1-1 04th of the surface
of copper. She had been protected more than twelve months, and
had made the voyage to Calcutta and back. She came into the
river perfectly bright ; and, when examined in the dry-dock, was
found entirely free from any adhesion, and offered a beautiful and
almost polished surface ; and there seemed to be no greater wear
of copper than could be accounted for from mechanical causes.

  t A common cause of adhesions of weeds or shell-fish, is the

oxide of iron formed and deposited round the protectors. In the
only experiment in which zinc has been employed for this purpose
in actual service, the ship returned after two voyages to the West
Indies, and one to Quebec, perfectly clean. The experiment was
made by Mr. Lawrence, of Lombard Street, who states that the

                                        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                         253

prevent this effect, and I have made some experi

ments favourable to the idea."

He next proceeds to state some circumstances, in

addition to those he had formerly noticed, by which
                                                                          altered. "

                                                                          hammering,
Ithe electrical

found," says
                 relations of                copper                 are
                he, " copper                hardened
                                                                      by
negative to rolled copper ; --copper (to use the tech
nical language of manufacturers) both over-poled
and under-poled,* containing, in one case, probably

   * The poling of copper is an operation, the theory of which is
involved in a great deal of mystery. Copper, when taken from the

smelting furnace, is what is termed dry, that                       it                        brittle, has an
                                                                        is is

                                                                                 is,
                                                                                    it
                                                                                          is
open grain and crystalline structure, and of a purplish red colour.

The following the process               by  which                   refined, or toughened, by
        a
           in
                     is

                         is
the process of poling. The surface of the melted metal in the fur

nace is,  the first place, covered with charcoal.                                             A  pole, com

monly of birch, then plunged into the liquid metal, which pro

duces     considerable ebullition from the evolution of gaseous

matter, and this operation continued, fresh charcoal being occa
                                        by ; is
                                               a

                                                                 by
                                                                                           is

                                                                                              is
sionally added, so that the surface may be always kept covered,

until the refiner judges from the assays that the metal malleable.

The delicacy of the operation consists in the difficulty of hitting

the exact mark                          the surface should          accident be uncovered,
it
       it

                                     :

                       if
will return to its dry state and should the process be carried too

far, will be over-poled,                which the metal would be rendered

even more brittle than when in dry state. When this found to

be the case, or, as they say, gone too far, the refiner directs the

charcoal to be drawn off from the surface of the metal, and the

copper to be exposed to the action of the air, by which means
                                                                    is,
                                                                                                 it
                                                                                                         is
again brought back to its proper pitch, that become again mal

       it
                            ?

                        ? Is

                                          is
                                                ? is,
                                                                is
leable. Now the question what are the changes thus produced

in the copper                           the metal in its dry state combined with mi
                                                                    it,
                                                                            it
                                                                                 a

                                                                                       a
nute portion of oxygen, of which poling deprives and thus ren

ders      malleable and does the over-poling impart to                                            minute

portion of carbon, and                  copper, like iron, thus rendered brittle

both by oxygen and carbon Or, the effect of the pole merely

254 THE LIFE OF

a little charcoal, and in the other a little oxide,

negative to pure copper. A specimen of brittle cop

per, put into my hands by Mr. Vivian, but in which
no impurity could be detected, was negative with
respect to soft copper. In general, very minute
quantities of the oxidable metals render the alloy
positive, unless it becomes harder, in which case it

is generally negative."
   These are important facts, and should dispose

those who may preside over judicial enquiries, to

Ipause before they infer the inferiority of copper

sheeting from the rapidity of its decay.* -- have

the metal ? Something might be said in support of all these

opinions. Mr. Faraday, who has attentively examined the sub

ject, is unable to detect any chemical difference between poled and

vnpohd copper. On the other hand, when the metal is over-poled,

it is found to oxidate more slowly, and its surface when in the fur

nace is so free from oxidation, that it is like a mirror, and reflects

every brick   in the   roof.    This certainly looks very much like car
bonization.                   Account of Smelting Copper, as conducted
             --See    " An
at the Hafod Copper-works ; by J. H. Vivian, Esq." -- Annals of
Philosophy, vol. v. p. 113.

* This observation was suggested by an examination of a late

judgment of the Court of Common Pleas, in the case of Jones p.
Bright and others, on showing cause against rule for a new trial.

This was an action brought by the Plaintiff against the Defendants

for selling him copper, for the purpose of sheathing the ship Isa

bella, which, from the rapidity of its corrosion, was inferred to have

an inherent defect in its composition. In this case it was held,

that with respect to warranty, there is a very wide difference as it

applies to articles which are not the subject of manufacture, and

those which are the. produce of manufacture and of human indus

try. In the one case, it may be that no prudence, no care, could

have guarded against a secret defect ; in the other, by using due

care, and providing proper materials, any defect in the manufacture

                     SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                            255

now concluded a review of those admirable re

searches which led Sir Humphry Davy to suggest
and mature a plan for arresting the corrosion of the
copper sheathing of vessels by Voltaic action. Mr.

did not make the timber which composed the bowsprit ; he merely
cut it out, and fitted it to meet the purpose, and could therefore

by no means have guarded against the rottenness in the centre of
that bowsprit : but if a man makes copper, he may guard against

inherent defects in that copper, by taking care that the copper con
tains a proper proportion of pure copper; and also by taking care
that it is so well manufactured, that it does not drink in a greater

quantity of oxygen than ought to be admitted into and that that

oxygen, which of necessity gets in, (for some will,) shall be so dis
tributed, that shall not operate, as in the opinion of an intelli
              it
                                           it

                                                                          it,
gent witness the oxygen in this case did operate, by forming itself

in patches, and thereby rendering soft, and rendering the copper

incapable of resisting the influence of salt-water -- that he can

guard against." With all due deference to the learned Judge,

          be shown that no human wisdom can guard against
suppose  in

those circumstances? itwhich portion of the copper surface may

                    a
                                   by
                                                   a
be rendered more highly electro-positive, what becomes of the

judgment      That the decay of copper sheathing effected                      it
                                                      ?                               ex
                                                                                  by
trinsic causes, and does not necessarily depend upon an inherent? is
                                                                                      a
defect the metal, may be proved in numerous ways. If were

owing to the quality of the copper, why should five, ten, or twenty
sheets out of hundred, made from the same charge of metal in

furnace and manufactured under precisely similar circumstances,

be affected, and the remainder be perfectly sound                              Why, again,

should sheets, made from several distinct charges, placed on par
                                                                               a

ticular vessel, be acted upon, while the same copper on other
bottoms not more than usually dissolved Did any inherent
It

    a is
            is

                                       it
defect exist in the metal, surely must have equally affected the

whole batch.

         possible that, in some cases, in consequence of the sheets

not having been properly cleansed before they are rolled, portion
                                                      by

                                                                                       a
                                                                                                        a
of the oxide may be pressed into them                 the rollers. In such

case, Voltaic effect might be produced, and portions of the

256 THE LIFE OF

ItBhaabtba"gtehishawsassariedgatrhdaetdhebywaLsapaluatcheorisaes dthien  stating,
                                                                         greatest

of Davy's discoveries."  do not think, however,

that it should be considered in the light of a separate

performance : we do injustice to the philosopher by

regarding it as an independent and isolated dis
covery ; for it was the result of a long series of

enquiries, which commenced by establishing the
laws of electro-chemistry, -- which led him to the
decomposition of the alkalies and earths, -- suggested
to his unwearied genius a succession of novel re
searches, in a new field of enquiry, -- and concluded,

as we have seen, in producing the most striking
results by means of the greatest simplicity. Not
once during the progress of this enquiry had he any

occasion to retrace his steps for the purpose of cor

rection : justly has he observed in his last Bakerian

Lecture, that, notwithstanding the various novel

views which have been brought forward in this and

other countries, and the great activity and extension
of science, it is peculiarly satisfactory to find that he

has nothing to alter in the fundamental theory laid

down in his original communication ; and which,

after the lapse of twenty years, has continued, as it

was in the beginning, the guide and foundation of

all his researches.

The President and Council of the Royal Society

"Aappear to have been swayed by this consideration,
when they adjudged to him  Royal Medal,* for

    In the year 1825, His Majesty George IV. communicated to
the Royal Society, through Mr. Peel, his intention to found two
gold medals, of the value of fifty guineas each, to be awarded

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.           257

his Bakerian Lecture on the relations of electrical
changes, considered as the last link, in order of
time, of the splendid chain of discoveries in chemical

electricity, which have been continued for so many
years of his valuable life."

   Thus had Davy now received from the Royal
Society all the honours they were capable of con
ferring upon him. In the year 1805, they adjudged
to him the medal on Sir Godfrey Copley's donation
for his various communications published in the
Philosophical Transactions; in 1817, they awarded
him the Rumford medals for his papers on com
bustion and flame ; and in 1827, upon the grounds

just stated, the President and Council expressed
their unabated admiration by conferring upon him
the only medal which remained for his acceptance
-- that which had been recently founded by their

patron, his late Majesty.
    Having thus disposed of the speculative part of

his admirable enquiry, it will be interesting to pause

in our narrative, in order to take a philosophical
review of the progress of Voltaic discovery, in its

relations to this particular object. It is a subject

well calculated to afford a valuable lesson to the ex

perimentalist, and at the same time to furnish illus
trations, more striking even than that of the safety-
lamp, of the necessity of that complicated species of

 machinery, without which the human mind is fre
 quently unable to grapple with the simplicities of

truth. It is true, that the fact of a galvanic effect

as shall, by the excitement of competition among men of science,

seem best calculated to promote the object for which the Royal

Society was instituted.  S

   VOL. II.

258 THE LIFE OF

being excited by the contact of two dissimilar metals

was noticed in the earliest stages of the enquiry,

but it is equally evident that the phenomena which

        it
            it,
                                                   it
attended         and the laws by which was directed,

required for their discovery and elucidation the
assistance of the Voltaic battery. In reference to

Davy, may be here repeated, that the power of

obtaining simple results, through complicated means,

was one of the most distinguishing features of his

genius.

  It has been stated, that the Alarm frigate, the

first coppered ship in our Navy, displayed very strik
ing evidence of the effect of Voltaic action, in the
rapid corrosion of its iron.* As early as 1783, after

copper sheathing had become general, the Govern
ment issued orders that all the bolts under the line
of fluitation should, in future, be of copper; but at

that period, was not possible that any idea couldit
be entertained as to the true nature of the operation
                                                        it
by which the iron was thus rapidly corroded, for
was only in the year 1797 that Dr. Ash noticed,aa
for the first time, phenomenon which was subse
quently referred to the action of simple Voltaica
circuit.

  It very curious circumstance in the history of
      in is                           ;
         a
                                              it
             it                                   is a
a     Numerous are the instances of later date which might be ad
   *
duced illustration of the same fact and                 now generally sup

posed that may have been frequent cause of ships foundering

at sea. By oxidation, the volume of the iron at first increases, and

then diminishes  ;       consequence of which the ship leaks, or, to use
    technical expression, becomes " bolt sick." When the Salvador
                  in in
del Mundo was docked at Plymouth, in February 1815, the iron

fastenings were        such state of corrosion, that five planks near

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  259

this subject, that, for many years after the Voltaic

influence had been recognised as the agent in me
tallic corrosion, so far from the existence of the ac

companying phenomenon of preservation being sus
pected, it was even supposed that the metals mu

tually corroded each other. At so late a date as

1813, we find Davy himself, in the letter addressed
to M. Alavair, published in these memoirs,* dwelling
upon the necessity of avoiding metallic contact, in

order to prevent corrosion, without throwing out
the most distant hint as to the simultaneous pro
duction of a converse effect.

   The first distinct notice of a metal being pre
served from oxidation by the contact of a dissimilar
metal, is at once referred to a chemical law, without
a reference even to its possible connection with Vol

taic action ; and, striking as the fact may now ap

pear, it never attracted much attention. M. Proust

observed, that although copper vessels be so imper
fectly tinned, as to leave portions of the surface un
covered, still, in cooking utensils, we shall be equally

protected from the poisonous effects of the former

metal ; because, says he, the superior readiness with

which tin is oxidized and acted upon by acids, when
compared with copper, will not allow this latter
metal to appropriate to itself a single atom of oxy

gen, f The same chemist observes, that if lead be

   * Page 13 of this Volume.

  t As far as the principle of Voltaic protection goes, this may be

very true ; but it must be remembered that the acid generally pre

sent upon these occasions is acetic acid, which rises in distillation
with water, so that at the boiling temperature it will be carried

beyond the sphere of Voltaic influence, and may thus act upon the

82

260 THE LIFE OF

associated with tin, it will be incapable of furnishing
to acids any saturnine impregnation, since the latter,
being more oxidable than the former, will exclu
sively dissolve, and thus prevent the former from

being attacked.
   Whether the principle of Voltaic protection be

applicable or not to the purpose of preserving copper
sheathing, it is evident that it will suggest nume
rous other expedients of high importance in the
arts, while it will explain phenomena previously un
intelligible. By introducing a piece of zinc, or tin,
into the iron boiler of the steam-engine, we may
prevent the danger of explosion, which generally

arises, especially where salt-water is used, as in those
of steam-boats, from the wear of. one part of the
boiler. Another important application is in the pre
vention of the wear of the paddles, or wheels, which

are rapidly dissolved by salt-water.

   Mr. Pepys has also extended the principle for the
preservation of steel instruments by guards of zinc :

razors and lancets may be thus defended with per

fect success. In the construction of monuments

which are to transmit to posterity the record of im
portant events, the artist will be careful in avoiding
the contact of different metals : it is thus that the

Etruscan inscriptions, engraved upon pure lead, are
preserved to the present day ; while medals of mixed
metals of a much more recent date are corroded.

    Numerous are the facts daily presented before us,
which receive from this principle a satisfactory ex

planation. To the philosopher, the examination of
its agencies will furnish a perpetual source of in

struction and amusement ; and I will here enume

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  261

rate a few simple instances of its effects : in the first
place, for the purpose of showing that, whenever
a principle or discovery involves or unfolds a law of
Nature, its applications are almost inexhaustible,
and that, however abstracted it may appear, it is
sooner or later employed for the common purposes
of life ; and in the next place, in the hope of con
vincing the reader, that there does not exist any
source of pleasure so extensive and so permanent as
that derived from the stores of philosophy. The

saunterer stumbles over the stone that may cross his

path, and vents only his vexation at the interrup
tion ; but to the philosopher there is not a body,
animate or inanimate, with which he can come in

contact, that does not yield its treasures at his ap
proach, and contribute to extend the pleasures of

his existence. ,

    1 well remember some years ago, that, in passing

through Deptford, my curiosity was excited by the
extraordinary brilliancy of a portion of the gilded
sign of an inn in that town, while its other parts
had entirely lost their metallic lustre. Having ob

Itained a ladder, ascended to the sign, in order, if

possible, to solve the problem that had so greatly
interested me: the mystery immediately vanished;
for an iron nail appeared in the centre of the spot,
which had protected the copper leaf for several

inches around it. Any person may easily satisfy
himself of the efficacy of such protection, in his

rambles through the metropolis, by noticing the
gilded, or rather coppered, sugar-loaves* so com

* There is an excellent example at this time in the London

262 THE LIFE OF

monly suspended over the shops of grocers, when

he will frequently perceive that the parts into which

the iron supports have entered, unless the latter

Ifhave been painted, shine preeminently brilliant.
a still more familiar example of the effect of a simple

Voltaic circuit be required, it is afforded by the iron

palisadoes, where the iron is constantly corroded at

its point of contact with the lead by which it is

cemented into the stone. These examples are

not only interesting from their simplicity, but from
their demonstrating the small quantity of a con

ducting fluid which is sufficient to transmit the

electrical power, or to complete a simple circuit : a

fact which, it will be remembered, the experiments
of Davy had before established. *
As our knowledge advances, these principles will

no doubt derive other illustrations, and be found

Icapable of more extensive application ; for as yet
we are but in the infancy of the enquiry.  have

Ilately been engaged in a series of experiments, the

results of which, confidently anticipate, will lead

to some new facts connected with the changes pro

duced on the negative metal of a Voltaic circuit;
Ian account of which hope shortly to submit to
Ithe Royal Society.
                     shall on this occasion merely

notice one result, which appears to me to admit of

an immediate application to one of the most impor
tant circumstances of life -- the purity of water

contained in leaden cisterns.

My attention has for several years been directed

to the state of the water with which the metropolis

is supplied ; and upon having been lately requested

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  26'3

to propose a remedy for preventing the action of a
spring in the neighbourhood of London upon lead,

Iwhich it had been found to corrode in a very rapid

manner, suggested the expediency of protecting

Ithe pipes and cisterns with surfaces of iron ; but

before such a plan was put in execution, proposed
to try its efficacy in the laboratory : -- the first result
Iwas very startling; for, instead of preventing, as
Ihad anticipated,  found that it greatly increased,
Ithe solution of the lead. After various experi

ments, arrived at the conclusion, that lead, when

rendered negative by iron, and placed in contact

with weak saline solutions, -- such, for instance, as
common spring water, -- was dissolved; in conse
quence of the decomposition of the salts and the
transference of their elements according to the ge

neral law, the acid passing to the iron, and the alkali

to the lead ; and so powerfully is this latter body

acted upon by an alkali, that, if a slip of it be im

mersed in a solution of potash or soda, its crystalline

texture is so rapidly developed, that its surface ex

hibits an appearance similar to that presented by tin-

Iplate, and which is designated by the term moiree.
      apprehend that most of the anomalous cases of
the solution of lead in common water, which have

for so many years embarrassed the chemist, may

thus receive an explanation. An eminent physi

cian lately informed me, that some time since he

was called upon to attend a family who had evi

dently suffered from the effects of saturnine poison,

and that he well remembers there was an iron pump

in the cistern that supplied the water. Upon

264 THE LIFE OF

eminent chemist, he was immediately reminded of a

circumstance which occurred at Islington, where the

water was found to corrode the lead in which it was

received : in this vessel there was an iron bar ; and

the fact would not have attracted his notice, nor

have been impressed upon his recollection, but from

Ithe unusual state of corrosion in which it appeared.
      shall conclude these observations by an account
of " the change which some musket balls, taken out
of Shrapnell's shells, had undergone," by Mr. Fara
day, and which is published in the 16th volume of

the Quarterly Journal of Science, for the year 1823.
This history is not only interesting on account of

the high chemical character of its author, but satis

factory as being in direct opposition to previously

established facts ; and cannot therefore have received

any"  bias  from preconceived theory.  me  some  musket
            Marsh of Woolwich gave
      Mr.

balls, which had been taken out of Shrapnell's shells.
The shells had lain in the bottoms of ships, and

probably had sea-water amongst them. When the
bullets are put in, the aperture is merely closed by

a common cork. These bullets were variously acted

upon : some were affected only superficially, others

more deeply, and some were entirely changed. The
substance produced is hard and brittle ; it splits on

the ball, and presents an appearance like some hard
varieties of haematite ; its colour is brown, becom

ing, when heated, red ; it fuses on platinum foil into

a yellow flaky substance like litharge. Powdered

and boiled in water, no muriatic acid or lead was

found in solution. It dissolved in nitric acid with

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        265

very faint indications only of muriatic acid. It is a

protoxide of lead, perhaps formed, in some way, by
the galvanic action of the iron shell and the leaden

ball, assisted probably by the sea-water. It would

be very interesting to know the state of the shells

Itin which a change like this has taken place to any
extent.  might have been expected, that as long as

any iron remained, the lead would have been preserved

Iin the metallic state."  found that a piece of lead

   In one experiment,

protected by iron underwent solution in water con

taining nitrate of potash, while it resisted the

Iaction of very dilute nitric acid: upon this point,

however, farther enquiry is necessary ; for subse

quently failed in producing the same effect, owing,

no doubt, to having employed too strong an acid.

   Let us return from this digression to the subject

of Sir Humphry Davy's Protectors. It only re

mains for me to relate the results which followed

the practical application of the Voltaic principles

which his various experiments had developed.

In the month of May 1824, directions were issued

by the Lords of the Admiralty to protect, in future,

the copper sheathing of all his Majesty's ships which

might be taken into dock, upon the plan proposed

by Sir Humphry Davy.
The protectors were bars of iron six inches wide

at their base, three inches in thickness in their cen

tre, and, in outward form, the segment of an ex

tended circle. They were usually placed on each

side of the ship in a horizontal position, viz. in

midships about three feet under water-- on the keel

266 THE LIFE OF

and afterparts of the ship (about three feet under
the line of fluitation), as far forward and abaft as the
curvatures of their respective bodies would allow of
their lying flat upon the surface of the copper.

   As it is difficult by verbal description alone to
convey a sufficiently distinct idea of this subject to

Ipersons unacquainted with naval architecture,

have introduced a sketch, exhibiting the general
position of the Protectors, although they are neces
sarily exaggerated in size, or they would have ap
peared as mere specks upon the drawing.

                                                      A. A. Line of Fluitation.

    On several ships, some of the protectors, in the
stem and the stern, were placed vertically ; in which
case they were fastened to the stems and stern-posts ;
and in this manner they were found to act more
powerfully in preserving the copper, than when they
were all placed horizontally. The ends of the pro
tectors were rounded, in order to prevent any great
resistance to the water, and they were fastened to
the bottoms of the ships with copper bolts, the iron
being counter-sunk to receive their heads, and the
holes were then filled with carbonate of lime, or
Parker's cement. To bring about the best possible
contact of all the copper sheets, their edges, which
lap over each other, where the nails are driven to
fasten them to the ships, were rubbed bright, first

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  267

   Shortly after the ships thus protected were sent
to sea, it was evident to all on board, from their dull
sailing, that the bottoms had become very foul ; and
on being examined in dry docks, it was found that
the copper was completely covered with sea-weed,
shell-fish of various kinds, and myriads of small

marine insects. Upon their removal, however, it

was found, on weighing the sheets, that the copper
had suffered little or no loss ; thus proving that,
although its practical application had failed from
unforeseen circumstances, the principle of protection
was true, and had fully justified the expectation of

its success.
   The copper near the protectors was much more

foul than that at a greater distance from them ; and
there was, moreover, a considerable deposit of car
bonate of lime, and of carbonate and hydrate of

magnesia, in their vicinity.
    Sir Humphry Davy immediately suggested, as a

remedy for this evil, that the bottoms should be
scraped, and the copper washed with a small quan
tity of acidulous water ; and he also proposed that
the protectors should in future be placed under,
instead of over, the copper sheathing. This plan
was immediately adopted. Discs of cast-iron three
and a half inches in diameter, and one-fourth of an
inch in thickness, were let into the plank of the
bottom of the Glasgow, of fifty guns, on the star

 board side only -- the larboard side having been left
 without any protection. These discs were in the
proportion of one to every four sheets of copper, and
 over them were placed pieces of brown paper, and

 over the paper thin sheet-lead, so that the latter

268 THE LIFE OF

Ametal was in contact with the copper sheathing.

similar experiment was also tried on the Zebra, of
eighteen guns, substituting, however, discs of zinc*
for those of iron.

   The bottom of the Glasgow was examined twelve
months afterwards, when the discs of iron were

found oxidated throughout, presenting in their
appearance the characters of plumbago. The cop
per on the starboard side was preserved, but co
vered with weeds and shell-fish. The sheets on
the larboard had undergone the usual waste, but

were clean.

    The Zebra was docked four years after the ex

periment had commenced, when the zinc protectors
were perfect, and it did not appear that they had

exerted any influence in preserving the copper, as it

had wasted equally on both sides. It may be pre

sumed in this case that the Voltaic circuit had by

some fault in the arrangement been interrupted.
    The apparent conversion of iron into a substance

resembling plumbago, by the action of sea-water,
 has been frequently noticed. The protectors thus

fchanged were, to a considerable depth from the

    It would appear that Davy latterly preferred zinc to iron, as
the protecting metal. In a letter, dated October 1826, addressed

stoubajescht,ip-hoewsnaeyrs,--w"hoThheadrusmt aodfe    some    enquiries   of him upon the
                                                                a ship is  becalmed, seems
                                                     iron, if

to promote the adhesion of weeds ; I should therefore always prefer

pieces of zinc, which may be very much smaller, and which, in the
cases I have heard of their being used, have had the best effect."

  t In the Annals of Philosophy (vol. v.) may be found a paper

by Dr. Henry, on the conversion of cast iron pipes into plumbago.

This change appears to have been effected by the action of water con

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  269

surface, so soft as to be easily cut by a knife ; but
after being exposed for some time to the action of

the atmosphere, they became harder, and even brit

tle. A portion of this soft substance having been

wrapped in paper for the purpose of examination,
and placed in the pocket of a shipwright, gave rise

to a very curious and unexpected result : at first, the
artist, like Futitorious with his chestnuts, thought
he perceived a genial warmth ; but the effect was

shortly less equivocal ; the substance became hot,
and presently passed into a state of absolute ignition.

Various theories have been suggested for its expla
nation : Mr. Daniell has advanced an opinion which
supposes the formation of silicon, and thus accounts
for the spontaneous ignition by the action of air.

   The disadvantages which arise from the foulness
of ships' bottoms, particularly when on foreign sta

tions, where there are no dry docks to receive them,

are so serious, that the Government was obliged, in

July 1825, to order the discontinuance of the pro

tectors on all sea-going ships; but directed that

they should still be used upon all those that were
laid up in our ports. When, however, an examina
tion of the latter took place, they were found to

Cast iron contains a considerable portion of carbon ; the change is

therefore readily explained on the supposition of the removal of the
principal metallic part by these salts. The muriates of lime and
magnesia have been observed by Dr. Henry to discharge writing
ink from the labels of bottles, to which they had been accidentally

applied ; and the same ingenious chemist has been baffled in his
attempts to restore the legibility of ink upon paper which had been
exposed to sea-water. The texture of the paper was not injured,
but the iron basis of the ink, as well as the gallic acid, was entirely

270 THE LIFE OF

be much more foul than those which had been in
motion at sea : shell-fish of various kinds had ad
hered to them so closely, that it was even necessary
to use percussion to remove them, which not only
indented the copper, but in many instances actually

fractured it.

   Under all these discouraging circumstances, the

unwelcome conviction was forced upon the agents
of Government, that the plan was incapable of suc
cessful application, and it was accordingly altogether

abandoned in September 1828.
   Such were the results of the experiments carried

on in the ports of England, for the protection of
copper sheathing, from the success of which Sir H.

Davy justly expected honours, fame, and reward.
That his disappointment was great, may be readily
imagined, and it is supposed to have had a marked

influence upon his future character. It is much to

be regretted that his vexation should have been
heightened by the unjust and bitter attacks made
upon him by the periodical press, and by those sub
alterns in science, who, unable to appreciate the
beauty of the principle he had so ably developed,
saw only in its details an object for sarcasm, and in

its failure an opportunity for censure ; while those

whose stations should have implied superior know
ledge, in the pride and arrogance of assumed con

tempt, sought a refuge from the humiliation of

ignorance.

That Davy was severely hurt by these attacks, is

"Aa fact well known to his friends. In a letter to Mr.
Children he says :  mind of much sensibility

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 271

Isay, Why should labour for public objects, merely

Ito meet abuse ? -- am irritated by them more than
I Iought to be ; but am getting wiser every day --

recollecting Galileo, and the times when philoso

phers and public benefactors were burnt for their

services." In another letter he alludes to the

sycophancy of a chemical journal, which, after the

Igrossest abuse, suddenly turnedround, and dis

gusted him with its adulation.  " never shake
hands," says he, " with chimney sweepers, even when

in their May-day clothes, and when they call me
' Your honour? "

While the trials above related were proceeding

in the ports of England, the naval department of

France was prosecuting a similar enquiry ; and as ex
periments of this nature are conducted with greater

care, and examined with superior science, in that
country, it may not be uninteresting to the English
reader to receive a detail of the examination of the
bottom of La Constance frigate, in which the pro

tectors bore a much larger proportion to the copper

Isurface than was ever practised in the British navy.

This document, may observe, is now published for

the first time.

  " The inspection of the bottom of the frigate La

Constance, has given rise to some interesting obser
vations on the effect of protectors, and it has con

firmed the fact before advanced of the great incon
venience which attends the application of too large
a proportion of the protecting metal.

      "The surface of this metal, which was of cast

iron, placed on each side of the keel, and in long
scarphs of iron plates situated towards the stem and

272 THE LIFE OF

stem-post and the water line, appeared to have been
about the l-30th part of the surface of the copper,

ins"teaTdheofgathlveanl-i2c50atchtionparhtasas   now  practised.  both  in
                                                been  extreme,

rapidity and intensity. The scarphs are entirely

destroyed, and have absolutely disappeared ; and we
should have been ignorant of their having ever ex

isted, had we not been informed of the fact, and ob

served dark stains which marked their position, and

discovered the nails still entire by which they had

been fastened.

    " The plates, which were in the first instance

about three inches thick, were covered throughout

their whole length by a thick, unequal coating,
spotted with yellow oxide. This was principally
owing to the absorption of about twenty-five per
cent, of its weight of water. Under this, the iron

was as soft as plumbago, and there remained scarcely
an inch of metal of its original metallic hardness.

   " The bulky and irregular appendage (the pro
tectors) at the lower part of the ship's bottom caused
a great noise in the sea, in consequence of the dead
water which it occasioned, and doubtless lessened

the speed of the vessel. But that which contribut

ed most to this unfortunate result, was the exceed

ingly unclean state of the copper, arising from the

excess of the iron employed : this, carried to so great
an extent, having the effect of extracting matter

from the water, which, forming a concretion on the

sheets, enabled the marine animals the more easily

to attach themselves. The sheathing was covered
with a multitude of lepas anatifera, shells with five

valves, suspended by a pedicle of three or four cen

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                    273

timetres long, collected into groups ; of lepas tin-

tinnabulum, a shell with six valves ; of oysters with
opercula; of polypi, &c. No part of the bottom

wa"s  free from them.    was  certainly  preserved  from
      Below, the copper

oxidation ; and up to within a few sheets of the

water line, it did not appear to be worn. But to

save expense, it was obliged to be cleansed without

removal, by rubbing it hard with bricks and wet

sand, which has succeeded very well in restoring

its copper colour."

   The following is the description of shells above
enumerated :--

Genus Anatifa, Encyclopedia. -- {Lepas, Linnaeus.)
                     Fig. 1. Smooth Anatifa {Lepas
      Fig- 1.

               anatifera, Linn.) -- Shell consisting
               of five valves, of which two larger

               and two smaller ones are opposite
               to each other ; and a fifth, which is

               narrow, is arched and rests upon the

               ends of the first four : these valves

               are not connected by any hinge ;

               they are held together by the skin
               of the animal, which lines their in

               terior and opens in front by a longi
               tudinal separation. Their colour is

               orange during the life of the ani
               mal. The base of the shell is unit

               ed to a fleshy tube, tendinous, cy
               lindrical, susceptible of contraction,

               saffron-coloured, becoming brown

VOL. II.       and black in drying.

                         t

     THE LIFE OF

   Fig. 2. Smooth Anatifa, as seen

from the other side, the pedicle dry

and contracted.

   Fig. 3. Smooth Anatifa, as seen

in front, showing the longitudinal

separation.

  Genus Anomia.
                      Shell with valves, un

                  equal, irregular, having
                  an operculum ; adher
                ing by its operculum ;
                 valve usually pierced,
                 flattened, having a ca

                           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  275

the other valve a little
larger, concave, entire ;
operculum small, ellip
tical, bony, fixed on
some foreign body, and
to which the interior
muscle of the animal is
attached.

   Species, Onion-peel

Anomia. -- (Ephippium,
Linn.)

  Shell common, whitish
and yellowish, found in
the Mediterranean and
the ocean.

   Besides the abovementioned species, which were
found in large quantities, there were also some

muscles and oysters. -- (Mytilus afer. Baccina. --
Linn. Gmel. 3358.)

      Genus " Balane de Blainville."

(Balanite, Encyclopedia. --Lepas, Linn.)

Fig. l.         Fig. 1. Tulip Bala-

             nus. -- (Lepas tintinna-

             bulum, Linn.)
                Shell with six une

             qual valves articulated

             by a scaly suture, of

             which the edges appear

             to be finely crenellated

         T2

276 THE LIFE OF

of the valves is conical, aperture ample, and nearly
quadrangular.

   Operculum composed of four triangular pieces
crenellated and marked with very projecting trans
verse striae, which appear to extend from the top
to the bottom ; the two posterior pieces are perpen
dicular, and are applied to the hinder partition of
the cavity of the shell ; they are terminated by two
conical prolongations, of which the points are sharp
and diverging. The two foremost pieces are placed
in the aperture, in an oblique direction. The co
lour of this balanus from clear red to violet and
brown .

                 Fig. 2.

                                      Fig. 2. View of the
                                      upper part of the Tulip

                                                Balanus.

Fig. 3.

            Fig. 3. View of the

         base.

  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      277
Genus Oyster, (Ostrea.)

   Species of oyster, nearly similar to the common
oyster, (Ostrea edulis,) and of the Huitre cuilier,
(Ostrea cochlear,) their shell rather fragile, almost
without lamellae ; upper valve concave, colour rather
deep violet, form variable.

   " Besides these three kinds of Molluscae, of which
the number was considerable, several species of cal
careous polypi were found ; but those which could
be obtained were too imperfect to allow of their

bei"ngThceorirreocntlywhdiecshcriwbeads. used to protect the copper
on the bottom of the Constance frigate having been
subjected to chemical analysis, the following are the

results.

   " This iron, which was in small fragments, very
friable, little attracted by the loadstone, soft to the
touch, and soiling the fingers like plumbago, gave

                               THB LIFE OF

like that of burnt linseed oil. Its colour on the
exterior was a brownish yellow, and its interior a
blackish grey, studded with little points extremely
brilliant.

  " A short time after they had been taken from

the keel of the frigate, where they were covered
with a layer of hydrated peroxide of iron, of six or
eight lines in thickness, and been enclosed in a
paper box, these fragments became strongly heated,
and underwent a real combustion by means of the
oxygen of the atmosphere ; the combustion was
accompanied by the production of a certain quantity
of "aqInueooursdevr aptooura.scertain whether this elevation of

temperature was really alone owing to the absorption
of the oxygen, a case containing twelve grammes of
this iron was placed under a receiver, which con
tained two hundred millimetres, inverted over a
tube of mercury ; and it was observed, in the course
of an hour, that this air had diminished by forty
millimetres, or one-fifth of its volume. Examining

afterwards that which remained in the receiver, it
was discovered that it had no effect whatever either
on lime-water or the tincture of toumesol, -- that it
was not inflammable, -- that it extinguished a can
dle; in a word, that it presented all the negative
qualities of azotic gas, strongly infected with the

smell before stated.

  " It must be evident that the oxygen which was

absorbed in this experiment was employed solely in
burning the iron, which was already in a state of

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  279

cohesion, by the avidity with which it seized this

principle, and by its dissolving in sulphuric acid,

which operated without effervescence, and without

disengaging hydrogen gas.

   "Five grammes of this oxidized iron being re

duced to an impalpable powder, and then made red-

hot in a platina crucible, and mixed with three parts
of potasse a I'alcool, were reduced to a clammy mass,
coloured on its edges with a clear beautiful green,
and with a greenish yellow on the other parts;
which at once indicated the presence of a small
portion of manganese, and that of a little chrome ;

metals which are found united in almost all sorts

of iron. Treated in the usual way, this mass
exhibited --

   "First, Traces, scarcely sensible, of these two

metals.

   " Secondly, One gramme of brilliant black pow
der, soft to the touch, staining paper, insoluble in
muriatic acid when applied boiling : it was therefore
a true percarburet of iron.

   " Thirdly, Three grammes and ten decigrammes of
peroxide of iron.

   "On being subjected to the action of boiling
water, five grammes of this pulverized iron gave
out three decigrammes of soluble matter, composed,
for the greater part, of hydrochlorate of iron, and a
trace of hydrochlorate of magnesia, together with a
little organic matter, the combination of which with
the iron will account for the insufferable smell which

it gave out when the iron was heated. This saline

280 THE LIFE OF

effect which was owing to the muriatic acid, which,
in uniting with oxidized iron, and with most other
metallic oxides, never forms combinations which are

perfectly neutral, but which are always more or less

acid.

  " It has in vain been attempted to discover in

this oxidized iron the presence of silex, of alumine,
and of the sulphuric and carbonic acids, either free,

or in combination.

  " It results from this analysis, that the fragments

of the protectors, which have been the object of it,
are composed, in a hundred parts, of about

    64 oxidized iron,

   20 of plumbago, or percarburet of iron,
    6 of matter soluble in water, hydrochlorate of
          magnesia, hydrochlorate of iron, hydrochlo
          rate of soda, hydrochlorate of magnesia, and

   organic matter, and

10 of water ; as in fragments pulverised and
   heated for half an hour at a temperature of

"      100, they lost l-10th of  their weight.  small
   As to the reddish yellow        matter, with

protuberances like nipples, which formed a thick

layer on the surface of the protectors, it was formed

of 75 parts of oxide of iron at the most, and 25

parts of water, besides some atoms of hydrochlorate

of iron, hydrochlorate of soda, and hydrochlorate of

magnesia."

   Had not the health of Davy unfortunately de
clined at the very period when his energies were
most required, such is the unbounded confidence

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  281

which all must feel in his unrivalled powers of van
quishing practical difficulties, and of removing the
obstacles which so constantly thwart the applica
tions of theory, that little doubt can be entertained

but he would soon have discovered some plan by
which the adhesion of marine bodies to the copper

sheathing might have been prevented, and his prin
ciple of Voltaic protection thus rendered available.

An experiment indeed, altogether founded upon

this same principle, has been already proposed, and
will be shortly tried in the British navy, by build

ing a schooner, and fastening its materials together
with copper bolts, and afterwards sheathing the
bottom with thin plates of iron, which are to be

protected by bands of zinc. At the same time,

another schooner is to be built, in which the fasten

ings are to consist entirely of iron bolts and nails,
the former to be protected by a zinc ring under
each head or clench, and the latter to have a small

piece of zinc soldered under its head.
   This plan of protection was first adopted in Ame

rica, at the recommendation of Dr. Revere ; and

upon its successful issue, that gentleman was lately

induced to take out letters patent not only in Eng
land, but in all the maritime countries of Europe,
for the sole right of manufacturing iron sheathing,

bolts, and nails, thus protected.

   As no doubt now exists as to the principle of the
protection of iron by zinc, the bolts and nails may

be expected to remain free from rust as long as the
more oxidable metal lasts ; but with regard to the

282 THE LIFE OF

entertain the same confidence ; for what, in this
case, is to prevent the adhesion of shell-fish and
sea-weed upon its surface ? Let it be remembered,
that it is only when the copper is in the act of
solution in sea-water that the sheathing remains
clean. In the year 1829, the Tender to the Flag
ship at Plymouth had her copper on one side of the
bottom painted with white lead : in six months,
this side was covered with long weeds ; while the
other side, which had been left bright, and con
sequently exposed to the solvent action of the salt
water, was found entirely free from all such adhe

sions.

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.         283

               CHAPTER XIV.

The failure of the Ship protectors a source of great vexation to
Davy. -- His Letters to Mr. Poole. -- He becomes unwell. -- He pub
lishes his Discourses before the Royal Society. -- Critical Remarks
-- and Quotations. -- He goes abroad in search of health. --His
Letter to Mr. Poole from Ravenna. --He resigns the Presidency
                       -- Mr. Gilbert    elected pro tempore. --Davy
of the Royal Society.                  friend Mr. Poole. --Salmonia,
returns to England,    and visits his

or Days of Fly-fishing. -- An Analysis of the Work, with various

extracts to illustrate its character.

The friends of Sir Humphry Davy saw with ex

treme regret that the failure of his plan for protect

ing copper sheathing had produced in his mind

a degree of disappointment and chagrin wholly in

consistent with the merits of the question ; that

while he became insensible to the voice of praise,

every nerve was jarred by the slightest note of dis
Iapprobation.
               apprehend, however, that the change

of character which many ascribed to the morti

fication of wounded pride, ought in some measure

to be referred to a declining state of bodily power,
which had brought with it its usual infirmities of
Ipetulance and despondency. The letters
                                         shall

here introduce may perhaps be considered as in

dicating that instinctive desire for quiet and retire

284 THE LIFE OF

ment which frequently marks a declining state of
health, and they will be followed by others of a less

equivocal character.

        TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

It IMY DEAR POOLE,Grosvenor Street, Nov. 24, 1824.

        is very long since have heard from you,
IMr. A
        , whom you introduced to me, has some

times given me news of you, and have always

heard of your health and well-being with pleasure.

  My immediate motive for writing to you now is

somewhat, though not entirely selfish. You know

1 have always admired your neighbourhood, and

II have lately seen a place advertised there, called,
think,  , not far from Quantock, and combin

ing, as far as advertisement can be trusted, scenery,

fishing, shooting, interest for money, &c.

  If it is not sold, pray give me a little idea of it ;
I have long been looking out for a purchase, --

perhaps this may suit me. After all, it may be

Isold ; if so, no harm is done.

      go on labouring for utility, perhaps more than

for glory ; caring something for the judgment of

my contemporaries, but more for that of posterity ;

and confiding with boldness in the solid judgment

Iof Time.
       have lately seen some magnificent country in

Ithe Scandinavian peninsula, where Nature, if not a

kind, is at least a beautiful mother. -- wonder there

Ihave not been more poets in the North.
              am, my dear Poole,

        Very affectionately your old friend,

                                        H. Daw.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                     28.5

TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE,                January 5, 1825.
My proposition to come into Somersetshire about
the 10th was founded upon two visits which I had

Ito pay in this county, Hants ; am now only about

Isixty miles from you ; and had you been at home,
   should have come on to Nether Stowey. The
I13th is the first meeting of the Royal Society after

the holidays ; and though might do my duty by

Ideputy, yet feel that this would not be right, and
I will not have the honour of the chair without

conscientiously taking the labours which its posses

sion entails. I regret therefore that I cannot be

with you next week. God bless you.

Believe me always, my dear Poole,
Your affectionate friend,
                                    H. Davy.
******TO THE SAME.
MY DEAR POOLE,  Park Street, Feb. 11, 1825.

I had a letter a few days ago from C  , who

writes in good spirits, and who, being within a few

miles of London, might, as far as his friends are
concerned, be at John a Grot's house. He writes
Iwith all his ancient power.
                              had hoped that, as his

mind became subdued, and his imagination less

vivid, he might have been able to apply himself to
persevere, and to give to the world some of those

trains of thought, so original, so impressive, and at

which we have so often wondered.

  I am writing this letter at a meeting of the Trus

286 THE LIFE OF

Iits want of correction. Lest should be more de
sultory, I will conclude by subscribing myself, my

dear Poole, your old and affectionate friend,

                                                H. Davy.

            TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE,                  Feb. 28, 1825.
I am very much obliged to you for your two
I Iletters, which received in proper time. have de
Iferred writing, in the hopes that might be able to
Ipay you a visit and see the property, but now
Ifind this will be impossible.
                                have a cold, which

has taken a stronger and more inflammable character

than usual, which obliges me to lay myself up ; and

in this weather it would be worse than imprudent

to travel.
I have seen Mr. Z
                   , and can perfectly re-echo
Iyour favourable sentiments respecting him.
                                             saw

******the plan of the estate, and heard every thing he

had to say respecting the value, real and imaginary,

of the lands. He certainly hopes at this moment

for a fancy price, and he is right if he can get it.
I have less fancy for the place, from finding the
                                it,
trout-stream a brook in summer, where salmon-

trout, or salmon, could not be propagated ; for one
of my favourite ideas in a country residence is varied

and multiplied experiments on the increase and pro
pagation of fish.

  What I should really like would be a place with

a couple of hundred acres of productive land, and
plenty of moor, a river running through and the

sea before it; and not farther from London than

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.       287

Hampshire --a day's journey. There are such places

Ialong the coast, though perhaps in my lifetime they
will not he disposed of.      should also like to be

within a few miles of you; for it is one of the

Iregrets in the life which lead, that devotion to the

cause of science separates me very much from

friends that I shall ever venerate and esteem. God

bless you, my dear Poole,

         Very affectionately yours,

                                    H. Davy.

         TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE, Pixton near Dulverton, Nov. 1, 1826.
I cannot be in your neighbourhood, without
I Idoing my best to see you ; and it is my intention
to come to Stowey on Sunday.     hope shall find

you at home, and quite well.
I IMr. T
         , who is here, gives me a very good

account of you, which trust shall be personally

If Iable to verify.          will try to shoot a few

        you are at leisure,

woodcocks on Monday on the Quantock hills ; on
ITuesday must go east.
  II have not been well lately.  cannot take the
Iexercise which twenty years ago went lightly and
Iagreeably through. Will you have the kindness

to hire a pony for me, that may ride to your

hills ?
I Iam sorry did not know of your journey to
IIreland and Scotland.
                          was in both those countries

at the time you visited them, and should have been

                              THE LIFE OF

Ibe at home, Stowey is not more than ten or twelve

miles out of my way ; but I hope shall find you.
               I am, my dear Poole,
                         Your old and sincere friend,

                                          H. Daw.

   The complaints, as to the loss of his strength,
which are expressed in the preceding letter, were
but too well founded. Mr. Poole informs me that,
during this visit in 1826, it was affecting to observe
the efforts he made to continue his field sports.
From being unable to walk without fatigue, he was
compelled to have a pony to take him to the field,
from which he dismounted only on the certainty of

immediate sport.

   On his return to London, his indisposition in
creased : he complained to me of palpitation of the
heart, and of an affection in the trachea, which led
him to fear that he might be suffering under the
disease of which his father died.

   The fatigue attendant upon the duties of the
anniversary of the Royal Society (November 30th)

completely exhausted him ; and after his re-election
as President, he was reluctantly obliged to retire,
and to decline attending the usual dinner upon that

occasion.

   In January 1827, Sir Humphry Davy published

the Discourses which he had delivered before the
Royal Society, at six successive anniversary meet
ings, on the award of the Royal and Copley medals.
They were published in compliance with a resolu
tion of a meeting of the Council, held on the 21st

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  289

   The practice of delivering an annual oration be
fore the Royal Society, on the occasion of present
ing the medal upon Sir Godfrey Copley's donation,
prevailed during the presidency of Sir John Prin-
gle ; it was, however, during a long interval discon
tinued, and only revived during the latter years of
Sir Joseph Banks.

   The discourse usually commenced with a short
tribute of respect to the memory of those distin

guished Fellows who had died since the preceding

anniversary. It then proceeded to announce the

choice of the Council in its award of the medals,

enumerating the objects and merits of the several
communications which had been honoured with so

distinguished a mark of approbation, and stating
the circumstances which had directed the judges in

their decision.

   Much has been said and written upon the in
utility, and even upon the mischievous tendency of

this practice; and great stress has been laid upon

the vices inseparably connected, as it is asserted,
with the style of composition to which it gives

origin. It appears to me, however, that it is only

against the meretricious execution, not against the
temperate use of such discourses, that this charge
can be fairly and consistently sustained ; and in the
chaste and yet powerful addresses of Davy, such an
opinion will find its best sanction, and obtain its

strongest support.

   Does it follow, because praise, when unduly la

vished upon the labours of the scientific dead, may

create comparisons and preferences injurious to the
living, that we are to stifle the noblest aspirations of

VOL. II.  u

290 THE LIFE OF

our nature, and become as cold and silent as the

grave that encloses their remains ? Does it follow,

because an undisciplined ardour may have occa
sionally exaggerated the merits of our contempora
ries, that we are henceforth to withhold from them

a just tribute of applause at their discoveries -- to

forego the advantages which science must derive

from a plan so well calculated to awaken the flag

ging attention, to infuse into stagnant research a

renewed spirit of animation, and to encourage the
industry of the labourer in the abstract regions of
science, with prospects gleaming with sunshine,

and luxuriant in the fruitfulness which is to re

ward him ?

Such was the character, such the effect of Davy's

discourses. They exhibit a great assemblage of di

versified talents, and display the refined views he

entertained with respect to the mutual relations

which the different sciences maintain with each

other ; they evince, moreover, a great command of

language, and a power to give exact expression to

what his mind had conceived.

   To these six Discourses is prefixed his Address

upon taking the chair of the Royal Society for the
first time ; the subject of which is " The present
state of that Body, and the Progress and Prospects
of Science." Upon this occasion, he particularly

adverts to the light which the different branches
                                          " In pure
of science may reflect upon each other.  a work of
Mathematics -- though their nature, as

intellectual combination, framed by the highest
efforts of human intelligence, renders them inca

pable of receiving aids from observations of ex-

                 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                       291

ternal phenomena, or the invention of new instru

ments, yet they are, at this moment, abundant in
the promise of new applications ; and many of the
departments of philosophical enquiry which appear

ed formerly to bear no relation to quantity, weight,

figure, or number, as I shall more particularly men

tion hereafter, are now brought under the dominion
of that sublime science, which is, as it were, the

ani"mIantinthge  principle of all  the other sciences."
                 theory of light    and vision, the researches

of Huygens, Newton, and Wollaston, have been

followed by those of Malus ; and the phenomena
of polarization are constantly tending to new dis

coveries; and it is extremely probable that those

beautiful results will lead to a more profound

knowledge than has hitherto been obtained, con

cerning the intimate constitution of bodies, and

establish a near connexion between mechanical and

chemical  philosophy."      so                  nearly allied  to  that  of
          subject of heat,
   " The

light, has lately afforded a rich harvest of discovery ;

yet it is fertile in unexplored phenomena. The
question of the materiality of heat will probably be

solved at the same time as that of the undulating

hypothesis of light,a       indeed, the human mind

should ever be capable of understanding the causesif,

                                             2
of these mysterious phenomena. The applications

of the doctrine of heat to the atomic or corpuscular

philosophy of chemistry abound in new views, and
probably at no very distant period these views will

assume     precise mathematical form."                                   of
          Electricity, the wonderful instrument
   " In

                      u

292 THE LIFE OF

sics and chemistry, than the microscope ever effect

ed for natural history, or even the telescope for

astronomy. After presenting to us the most extra
ordinary and unexpected results in chemical ana

lysis, it is now throwing a new light upon mag

netism.  ' Suppeditatque novo confestim lumine lumen.'

I" must congratulate the Society on the rapid
progress made in the theory of definite proportions,

Isince it was advanced in a distinct form by the in
genuity of Mr. Dalton.  congratulate the Society

on the promise it affords of solving the recondite
changes, owing to motions of the particles of mat

ter, by laws depending upon their weight, number,
and figure, and which will be probably found as

simple in their origin, and as harmonious in their

relations, as those which direct the motions of the

heavenly bodies, and produce the beauty and order

of the celestial systems.
   " The crystallizations, or regular forms of in

organic matter, are intimately connected with de

finite proportions, and depend upon the nature of

the combinations of the elementary particles ; and
both the laws of electrical polarity, and the polar

ization of light, seem related to these phenomena.
As to the origin of the primary arrangement of the

crystalline matter of the globe, various hypotheses

have been applied, and the question is still agitated,
and is perhaps above the present state of our know

ledge ; but there are two principal facts which pre
sent analogies on the subject, -- one, that the form

of the earth is that which would result, supposing

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        293

in lavas, masses decidedly of igneous origin, crystal
line substances, similar to those belonging to the

primary rocks, are found in abundance."
  It is the privilege                                                    of
                       "oaf s gbeyniuresfratoctbioen,inthaedvlaignhcte,
the age, and to see,                                                     as

yet below the horizon." It is with such a feeling

Ithat have introduced the foregoing extracts, which
I cannot but regard as prophetic of future disco

veries.

   The first discourse was delivered on the 30th of

November 1821, on the occasion of announcing the
award of two medals, on Sir Godfrey Copley's do

nation ; one to J. F. W. Herschel, Esq. for his va

rious papers on mathematical and physico-mathe-
matical subjects ; and the other, to Captain Edward

Sabine, R.A., for his papers containing an account

of his various experiments and observations made

during a voyage and expedition in the Arctic re

Igions.

   As am desirous that the reader should be made

acquainted with the nature and style of the address

Iwith which he accompanied the presentation of the

medal, cannot select a happier example, or one in
the sentiments of which every person will more

readily participate, than the following : --

   " Mr. Herschel --Receive this medal, Sir, as a

mark of our respect, and of our admiration of those

talents which you have applied with so much zeal
and success, and preserve it as a pledge of future
exertions in the cause of Science and of the Royal

Society ; and, believe me, you can communicate

294 THE LIFE OF

be better received, or through whose records they

will be better known to the philosophical world.

You are in the prime of life, in the beginning of

your career, and you have powers and acquirements

capable of illustrating and extending every branch
of physical enquiry ; and, in the field of science,

how many are the spots not yet cultivated ! Where

the laws of sensible become connected with those

of insensible motions, the mechanical with the che

mical phenomena, how little is known ! In elec

tricity, magnetism, in the relations of crystallized

forms to the weight of the elements of bodies, what

a number of curious and important objects of re

search ! and they are objects which you are pecu

liar"lyMqauyalyifoieud  to pursue  and illustrate.     to  phi
                        continue   to devote yourself

losophical pursuits, and to exalt your reputation,

already so high --

                        ' Virtutem extendere factis.'

And these pursuits you will find not only glorious,
but dignified, useful, and gratifying in every period
of life : this, indeed, you must know best in the
example of your illustrious father, who, full of
years and of honours, must view your exertions
with infinite pleasure ; and who, in the hopes that
his own imperishable name will be permanently
connected with yours in the annals of philosophy,

must look forward to a double immortality."

   In the discourse of the succeeding year, it was

his painful duty to announce the death of the elder

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              295

eulogized in such eloquent and touching lan

guage.

   In alluding to the labours and discoveries of Sir
William Herschel, he observed, that " they have so
much contributed to the progress of modern astro

nomy, that his name will probably live as long as
the inhabitants of this earth are permitted to view

the solar system, or to understand the laws of its
motions. The world of science--the civilized world,

are alike indebted to him who enlarges the boun
daries of human knowledge, who increases the scope
of intellectual enjoyment, and exhibits the human

mind in possession of new and unknown powers,
by which it gains, as it were, new dominions in

space ; acquisitions which are imperishable -- not

like the boundaries of terrestrial states and king
doms, or even the great monuments of art, which,
however extensive and splendid, must decay -- but

secured by the grandest forms and objects of na

ture, and registered amongst her laws."        with

  IOne more quotation, and shall conclude      have
Ithe conviction that the splendid specimens
adduced must fully justify the opinion already
offered as to the taste, power, and eloquence with
which, as President of the Royal Society, he dis

charged the most delicate and arduous of all its

duties.

   In his address to Mr. (now Dr.) Buckland, on

delivering to him the medal for his important me

                 remains discovered

                thus concludes : --"
Ifmoir                                in  the
                                          we
near
on the fossile                                 cave
                                               look
Kirkdale, he

with wonder upon the great remains of human

296 THE LIFE OF

the midst of the desert ; the temples of Paestum,
beautiful in the decay of twenty centuries ; or the
mutilated fragments of Greek sculpture in the
Acropolis of Athens, or in our own Museum, as
proofs of the genius of artists, and power and riches
of nations now past away ; with how much deeper
a feeling of admiration must we consider those
grand monuments of nature which mark the revo
lutions of the globe -- continents broken into islands ;
one land produced, another destroyed ; the bottom
of the ocean become a fertile soil ; whole races of
animals extinct, and the bones and exuviae of one
class covered with the remains of another; and
upon these graves of past generations -- the marble
or rocky tombs, as it were, of a former animated
world, new generations rising, and order and har
mony established, and a system of life and beauty
produced, as it were, out of chaos and death, proving
the infinite power, wisdom, and goodness of the
Great Cause of all being !"

  I have noticed the apparent commencement of

that general indisposition which had for some time
been stealing upon him, undermining his powers,
oppressing his spirits, and subduing his best ener
gies ; but in the end of 1826, his complaint assumed
a more decided and alarming form. Feeling more
than usually unwell, while on a visit to his friend
Lord Gage, he determined to return to London,
and was seized while on his journey, at Mayersfield,
with an apoplectic attack. Prompt and copious
bleeding, however, on the spot, arrested the symp

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      297

toms more immediately threatening the extinction

of life, and enabled him to reach home ; but para
lysis, the usual consequence of such seizures, had
obviously, though at first but slightly, diminished
his muscular powers, and given an awkwardness to

his gait.

   As soon as the more immediate danger of the
attack had passed away, it was thought expedient
to recommend, as the best means of his farther reco
very, a residence in the southern part of Europe,

where he would be removed from all the cares and

anxieties that were inseparably connected with his

continuance in London ; and he accordingly quitted
England, with the intention of spending what re
mained of the winter in Italy.

   The following interesting letter to his friend will
sufficiently explain the serious character of his ma
lady, and the degree of bodily infirmity which ac

companied it.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,  Ravenna, March 14, 1827.

  I should have answered your letter immediately,
Ihad it been possible ; but I was, at the time re
Iceived it, very ill, in the crisis of the complaint

under which have long suffered, and which turned
out to be a determination of the blood to the brain ;

at last producing the most alarming nervous symp

I Itoms, and threatening the loss of power and of life.
   Had been in England, should gladly have
promoted the election of your friend at the Athe
naeum : your certificate of character would always

298 THE LIFE OF

IIsaac Walton, know you choose for your friends

only good men.

  I am, thank God, better, but still very weak, and
Iwholly unfit for any kind of business and study.

have, however, considerably recovered the use of all
the limbs that were affected ; and as my amendment

Ihas been slow and gradual, hope in time it may be
Icomplete : but am leading the life of an anchorite,

obliged to abstain from flesh, wine, business, study,

experiments, and all things that I love ; but this

discipline is salutary, and for the sake of being

I Iable to do something more for science, and, hope,

for humanity, submit to it ; believing that the
Great Source of intellectual being so wills it for

Igood.
       am here lodged in the Apostolical Palace, by
the kindness of the Vice-Legate of Ravenna, a most

admirable and enlightened prelate, and who has done

every thing for me that he could have done for a

Ibrother.
      have chosen this spot of the declining empire of
Rome, as one of solitude and repose, as out of the
way of travellers, and in a good climate; and its

monuments and recollections are not without inte
rest. Here Dante composed his divine works.
Here Byron wrote some of his best and most moral

(if such a name can be applied) poems ; and here the
Roman power that began among the mountains
with Romulus, and migrated to the sea, bounding
Asia and Europe under Constantine, made its last

stand, in the marshes formed by the Eridanus, under
Theodorick, whose tomb is amongst the wonders of

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.        299

I IAfter a month's travel in the most severe weather

   ever experienced, arrived here on the 20th of

February. The weather has since been fine. My

brother and friend, who is likewise my physician,

accompanied me ; but he is so satisfied with my im

provement, as to be able to leave me for Corfu ; but

he is within a week's call.

  I have no society here, except that of the amiable

Vice-Legate, who is the Governor of the Province ;
but this is enough for me, for as yet I can bear but
Ilittle conversation.
                         ride in the pine forest, which
Iis the most magnificent in Europe, and which wish
you could see. You know the trees by Claude

Lorraine's landscapes : imagine a circle of twenty

miles of these great fan-shaped pines, green sunny

lawns, and little knolls of underwood, with large

junipers of the Adriatic in front, and the Apennines

still covered with snow behind. The pine wood

partly covers the spot where the Roman fleet once

rode, -- such is the change of time !

  IIt is my intention to stay here till the beginning

of April, and then to go to the Alps, for must

Iavoid the extremes of heat and cold.
   God bless you, my dear Poole. am always your
                         H. Davy.
old and sincere friend,

   Feeling that his recovery was tardy, and that per
fect mental repose was more than ever necessary for

its advancement, he determined to resign the chair

of the Royal Society ; and he accordingly announced
that intention, by a letter to his friend Mr. Davies
Gilbert, Vice-President of the Society.

300 THE LIFE OF

TO DAVIES GILBERT, ESQ. M. P. V. P. R. S. &C. &C.

                   Salzburgh, July 1 , 1 827.
IMY DEAR SIR,
Yesterday, on my arrival here, found your
two letters. I am sorry I did not receive the one

I Iyou were so good as to address to me at Ravenna ;
nor can account for its miscarriage.  commis

sioned a friend there to transmit to me my letters

from that place after my departure, and I received
several, even so late as the middle of May, at Lay-

bach, which had been sent to Italy, and afterwards
I Ito Illyria.
did not write to you again, because

Ialways entertained hopes of being able to give a
better account of the state of my health.  am

sorry to say the expectations of my physicians of a

complete and rapid recovery have not been realized.

I have gained ground, under the most favourable
Icircumstances, very slowly ; and though have had

no new attack, and have regained, to a certain ex

tent, the use of my limbs, yet the tendency of the

Isystem to accumulate blood in the head still con

tinues, and am obliged to counteract it by a most

rigid vegetable diet, and by frequent bleedings with

Ileeches and blisterings, which of course keep me very

low. From my youth up to last year, had suf

fered, more or less, from a slight hemorrhoidal affec

tion ; and the fulness of the vessels, then only a

slight inconvenience, becomes a serious and dan

Igerous evil in the head, to which it seems to have
been transferred.  am far from despairing of an

ultimate recovery, but it must be a work of time,

and the vessels which have been over distended only

              STR HUMPHRY DAVY.  301

and for my recovery, not only diet and regimen and
physical discipline, but a freedom from anxiety, and
from all business and all intellectual exertion, is

Iabsolutely required.          feel it would be
   Under these circumstances,

highly imprudent and perhaps fatal for me, to re

Iturn, and to attempt to perform the official duties of

President of the Royal Society. And as had no

other feeling for that high and honourable situation,

Iexcept the hope of being useful to society, so
would not keep it a moment without the security of

being able to devote myself to the labour and atten
Ition it demands.
                   beg therefore you will be so

good as to communicate my resignation to the Coun

cil and to the Society at their first meeting in No

vember, after the long vacation ; stating the circum

Istances of my severe and long continued illness, as

the cause. At the same time, beg you will ex

Ipress to them how truly grateful feel for the high

honour they have done me in placing me in the

Ichair for so many successive years. Assure them

that shall always take the same interest in the
progress of the grand objects of the Society, and

throughout the whole of my life endeavour to con

tribute to their advancement, and to the prosperity

of the body.

Should circumstances prevent me from sending,

or you from receiving any other communication

from me before the autumn (for nothing is more un

I Icertain than the post in Austria, as they take time

to read the letters), hope this, which shall go to

Bavaria to send, will reach you safe, and will be suf

302  THE LIFE OF

   It was my intention to have said nothing on the
subject of my successor. I will support by all the

means in my power the person that the leading

Imembers of the Society shall place in the chair ; but
   cannot resist an expression of satisfaction in the
hope you held out, that an illustrious friend of the

ISociety, illustrious from his talents, his former situa

tion, and, may say, his late conduct, is likely to be

my successor.

  I Iwish my name to be in the next Council, as

shall certainly return, Deo volente, before the end of

I Ithe session, and may, think, be of use ; and like
Iwise, because hope it may be clearly understood

that my feelings for the Society are, as they always

were, those of warm attachment and respect. Writ

Iing still makes my head ache, and raises my pulse.

   will therefore conclude, my dear Sir, in returning

Iyou my sincere thanks for the trouble you have had

on my account, and assuring you that am

     Your obliged and grateful friend and servant,
                                                     H. Davy.

   Pray acknowledge the receipt of this letter, by
addressing me, " poste restante, Laybach, Illyria,

Austria ;" and let me know if Mr. Hudson is still

IAssistant-Secretary, and where Mr. South is.

send this letter from Frauenstein, Bavaria, July 2,

that it may not be opened, as all my letters were at
Salzburgh. There was one of them must have
amused Prince Metternich, on the state of parties in
England, from a Member of the Upper House.

In consequence of this letter, the Council of the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              303

meeting held on the 6th of November, 1827, ap
pointed Mr. Davies Gilbert to fill the chair, until

the general body should elect a President, at the

ensuing anniversary.
   The following letter will show his subsequent

course of proceeding.

TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

Park Street, Grosvenor Square,

I IMY DEAR POOLE,
                               Oct. 29, 1827.

hope you received a letter which addressed to
you from Ravenna in the spring. It was my in

Itention to have returned to Italy from the Alpine

countries, where spent the summer ; but my reco

very has been so slow, and so much uneasiness in the

Ihead and weakness in the limbs remained in Sep

tember, that thought it wiser to return to my

Imedical advisers in London.
      have consulted all the celebrated men who have

written upon or studied the nervous system. They
all have a good opinion of my case, and they all

order absolute repose for at least twelve months

longer, and will not allow me to resume my scien

tific duties or labours at present; and they insist

upon my leaving London for the next three or four

months, and advise a residence in the west of Eng
Iland. Now, my dear friend, you recollect our con

versation upon the subject of a residence -- think

Mr. C.'s is not very far from you. Pray let me
Iknow something on this head.
                               want very little of
Iany thing, for am almost on a vegetable diet ; and

Ia little horse exercise, a very little shooting, and a

little quiet society, are what am in search of, with

304 THE LIFE OF

Isome facilities of procuring books.  have thought

Iof Minehead, Ilfracombe, Lymouth, and Penzance ;

but have not yet determined the point.

Horse exercise and shooting are necessary to bring

back my limbs to their former state, and therefore
Bath and Brighton will not do for me. God bless

you, my dear Poole, and pray let me hear from
         Your affectionate,           H. Davy.
Iyou.
         hope you got the copy of my discourses.
   P.S.

                     TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE,             Firle, near Lewes, Nov. 4, 1 827.
II have this moment received your very kind
and most friendly letter.  have made my first visit
to my friend Lord G        I, where was taken ill

last year ; and have borne the journey well, and

Ihave enjoyed the small society here ; but am very
Iweak indeed, and cannot yet walk more than a
Imile. One of three plans, shall hope to adopt ;

two of them you have most amiably suggested, the

other is to go to Penzance. My only objection to

the last is the fear of too much society. Whatever

I Ido, will first come to you and take your advice.
  I IWhen returned, had little hopes of recovery ;

Ibut the assurances of my physicians that may

again, with care, be re-established, have revived me,
Iand have certainly gained ground, and gained
Istrength, by the plan am now pursuing.
  IAs soon as return to London, I will write to
If I Iyou.
         can find a companion,        think Mr.
IC 's house will do admirably ; but must see

Iit, as a temperate  situation is a sine qua non.  kind

      need not say   how grateful I am for your

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  305

I Iness, and if recover, how delighted shall be to

owe the means to so excellent and invaluable a

Ifriend. God bless you.
           am, my dear Poole, your affectionate,
                                                 H. Davy.

                TO THE SAME.

I MY DEAR POOLE,                   Firle, Nov. 7.

am going to London to-morrow, and after

staying two or three days, to try a new plan of

Imedical treatment, which my physicians recommend,
   shall come westward, and profit by your kindness,

and adopt whichever of the plans will promise to be

most salutary.
If I take Mr. C   's house, Lady Davy will
Icome to me. With respect to society, want only

Ia friend, or one person or two at most, to prevent

entire solitude, and am too weak to bear much

******conversation, and wholly unfit to receive any but

Ipersons with whom am in the habits of intimacy.
  I Ican hardly express to you how deeply feel

your kindness.
  IAs must travel slowly, I shall not probably be

at Stowey before Wednesday or Thursday next.

Pray do not ask any body to meet me. I am upon

the strictest diet, -- a wing of a chicken and a plain
rice or bread pudding is the extreme of my gour-

manderie. God bless you.

      My dear Poole, your affectionate friend,
                                                    H. Davy.

VOL. II.          X

306 THE LIFE OF

Mr. Poole has been so obliging as to commu

nicate to me some interesting particulars connected
with the visit to
   " During this   which the foregoing    letters allude.
                   last vist, (November   and December

1827,) his bodily infirmity was very great, and his

sensibility was painfully alive on every occasion.

Unhappily, he had to sustain the affliction of the
sudden death of Mr. R
                                , the son of a friend

whom he highly valued ; and though this afflicting

event was, by the considerate and anxious attention
of Lady Davy, first communicated to me by letter,

to be imparted to him with every precaution, to
avoid his being suddenly shocked, yet it was many

days before he could recover his usual spirits, feeble

they  were, and resume his      wonted
" On  his arrival, he said, '   Here
Ias                                       occupation.   of
                                          am, the ruin
Iwhat was ;' but nevertheless, the same activity
and ardour of mind continued, though directed to
different objects. He employed himself two or
three hours in the morning on his Salmonia, which

he was then writing ; he would afterwards take a

Ishort walk, which he accomplished with difficulty,

or ride. After dinner, used to read to him some
amusing book. We were particularly interested

by Southey 's Life of Nelson. 'It would give
Southey,' he said, ' great pleasure, if he knew how
much his narrative
                      affected  us.'*  W  , the former
   " In the evening,            Mrs.
                      Mr. and
of whom he had long known, frequently came to
make a rubber at whist. He was averse to see

   * His admiration of this work bursts forth in his Salmonia,
which he was writing at that time. He styles it " an immortal
monument raised by Genius to Valour."

                    SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   307

ing strangers ; but on being shown the drawings of
Natural History of a friend of mine of great talent,
Mr. Baker of Bridgwater, he was anxious to know
him, and was much pleased with his company. He

suggested to him various subjects for investigation,

concerning insects, and fish, particularly the eel.

What pleasure would it give him were he now
alive, to learn the interesting result of those sug
gestions ! I hope the public will soon be made

acq"uNaianttuerdal  with them.   general  had  been  a  favourite
                     History in

subject with him throughout his protracted illness ;

and during this last visit to me, he paid attention

Ito that only ; ' for,' said he, ' am prohibited
Iapplying, and indeed am incapable of applying,

to any thing which requires severe attention."

  I" During the same visit, remember his inherent
Ilove of the laboratory, if may so express myself,

being manifested in a manner which much inter
ested me at the moment. On his visiting with me

a gentleman in this neighbourhood, who had offered
him his house, and who has an extensive philoso
phical apparatus, particularly complete in electricity
and chemistry, he was fatigued with the journey,
and as we were walking round the house very lan
guidly, a door opened, and we were in the labora

tory. He threw a glance around the room, his eyes

brightened in the action, a glow came over his coun
tenance, and he looked like himself, as he was

acc"usYtoomuedaretoawaaprpeeatrhattwheentwyayselaartstearglyo. a good shot,

always an expert angler, and a great admirer of old

                    x2

308 THE LIFE OF

Iupon these accomplishments.                 used to laugh at

him, which he did not like ; but it amused me to

see such a man give so much importance to those

qualifications. He would say, ' It is not the sport

only, though there is great pleasure in successful
dexterity,* but it is the ardour of pursuit, pure air,
the contemplation of a fine country, and the exer
cise--all tend to invigorate the body, and to ex

cite the mind to its best efforts."

       These amusements seemed to become more and

more important in his estimation, as his health de

clined. It was affecting to observe the efforts he

* Mr. Children has just communicated to me the following

amusing anecdote, which may be adduced in illustration of the de

light he took in that sporting dexterity to which he alludes in the

above passage. Davy, with a party of friends, had been engaged for

several hours in fishing for pike, but very unsuccessfully ; our phi

losopher gave up the sport in despair, but his companions having

determined to try some more propitious spots, left him to his con

templations. About an hour afterwards, Mr. Children, on return

ing to his friend, saw him at a distance seated upon a gate, and

apparently lashing the air with his fishing-line. What could be his

object ? As soon as Mr. Children came sufficiently near to make

a signal, Davy, by his gestures, earnestly entreated him to keep

away, while he continued his mysterious motions. At length, how
       Mr. Children's
ever,  " Was ever any  patience was exhausted, and he walked   up  "  to
him.                    thing more provoking ["exclaimed Davy
                                                                ;     if

"yhI oiAmhuadv--heraaidgtboiesonen-nmfllyoygs,rtree"amv(telaLyxiinabeatedimolluuussqleaud!,i")etabny"asnCwwoaeaturhtegcedhhritnmDgwainhvuatyhtt.ee?""fIeDseauhsdkorineiundglgdhMyhaorab.uvitCreshaciobladfsuretegnhnchae.tt
         and having observed the eagerness
insect,                                      with  which they snapped
up the    little ' midges,' I determined to  arm   my hook with one,

and I can assure you I have had no small degree of sport ; and had
it not been for your unwelcome intrusion, I should most undoubt

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  309

made to continue them with diminished strength.
From being unable to walk without fatigue for
many hours, he was, when he came to me in No

vember 1826, obliged to have a pony to carry him
to the field, from which he dismounted only on the

certainty of immediate sport. In the following

year, he could only take short and occasional rides
to the covers, with his dogs around him, and his

Iservant walking by his side and carrying his gun,

but which believe he never fired.
   " During this visit, he more than once observed,

I I' do not wish to live, as far as am personally con
Icerned ; but I have views which could develope,

if it pleased God to save my life, which would be

useful to science and to mankind.' "

   Davy returned to town in December, and after
an interval wrote the following letter :

                       TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

                         Park Street, Grosvenor Square, Dec. 27, 1827.

       MY VERY DEAR FRIEND,

  I Iknow no reason why have not written to you.
IIt has been my intention every day, and have

been every day prevented by the sense of want
of power, which is so painful a symptom of my

malady.

  I Icontinue much as was. My physicians augur
Iwell, and have some repose in the hopes connected

with the indefinite future. In the last twelve

Imonth, which hope is a large portion, on the

whole, of my purgatory expiation for crimes of com
mission or omission, the most cheerful, or rather the

310 THE LIFE OF

Iowing to your kindness, which shall never forget.
I would, if it were possible, make my letter some

thing more than a mere bulletin of health, or the

expression of the feelings of a sick man ; but I can

****communicate no news. The papers will tell you

more than is true ; and our politicians seem ignorant
of what they are to do at home, much more abroad.
  II have got for you a copy of my lectures on the

Chemistry of Agriculture, which shall send to you

Iby the first opportunity. God bless you, my dear
Poole.  am always your sincere,

        Grateful, and affectionate friend,
                                 H. Davy.

   In the letter which follows, Davy dwells upon a
subject in Natural History, which appears to have

greatly occupied his thoughts, and to have con
tinued a predominant subject of his contemplation,
even to the latest day of his life.

                      TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

  I MY DEAR FRIEND, Park Street, January 1, 1828.

     write to you immediately, because that part of

your letter which relates to Mr. Baker's pursuits

Iinterests me very much: but before begin on this
Isubject, will give you a short bulletin of the state
Iof my health. I go on much as did at Stowey,

and my physicians have made no alterations in the

Iplan of treatment : am not worse, and they tell me
I Ishall be better. Now for Mr. Baker -- am very
glad that he is occupied with those enquiries. I am

particularly anxious for information on the genera

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.         311

Ition of eels ; it is an unsolved problem since the
time of Aristotle.  am sure that all eels come

from the sea, where they are bred ; but there may

be one or two species or varieties of them. What
Mr. Baker says about the difference between the

Icommon eel and the conger is well worthy of atten

tion ; but have known changes more extraordi
nary than the obliteration, or destruction, of a small
tubular member occasioned by difference of habits.

Were the salt-water eels and the fresh-water eels

which he examined of the same size ? Many in

dividuals of various sizes should be examined to

establish the fact of their specific difference. This

would be the season for examining the genital

Iorgans of eels, for they breed in winter ; and were
Ia little better, should go to the sea for the purpose

of making enquiries on the subject.
   Sir Everard Home is firmly convinced that the

animal is hermaphrodite and impregnates itself :

this, though possible, appears to me very strange
Ifin so large an animal.  Mr. Baker will deter
Imine this point, can promise him an immortality

amongst our philosophical anglers and natural his

torians ; and if he will give us the history of water-

flies, imitated by fly-fishers, he will command our

immediate gratitude.
   Pray communicate this letter to him with my

best wishes, and with my hopes that his talents,

Iwhich are very great, will be applied to enlighten us.
      can give you no news ; the weather is dreadful,

and the blacks and yellows are descending in fog.

I long for the fresh air of your mountains.

   God bless you, my dear Poole. Many -- many

312 THE LIFE OF

happy new years to you. Pray remember me, with

the compliments of this day, to your excellent
                       Your affectionate friend,
neighbours at Stowey.                    H. Davy.

                   TO THE SAME.

MY DEAR POOLE,         Park Street, March 26.

Your letter has given me great pleasure; first,

because you, who are an enlightened judge in such

matters, approve of my humble contribution to

agriculture ; and, secondly, because it makes me

acquainted with your kind feelings, health, and

Mr. Baker's interesting pursuits.
   Mr. Baker appears to me to have distinctly es

tablished the point that the eel and conger are of

different species; and from his zeal and activity,
I hope the curious problem of the generation of
Ithese animals will be solved.   shall expect with

impatience the results of his enquiries.
INow for my health, my very dear friend. wish
I Icould speak more favourably ; certainly do not
Ilose ground, but am doubtful if I gain any ; but
I do not despair.
I am going, by the advice of my physicians, to
If Itry another Continental journey.
                                               get consider
Iably better, shall winter in Italy, where, in this
I Icase, shall hope to see you, and where shall have

an apartment ready for you in Rome.
I Ihave not been idle since left your comfortable
Iand hospitable

and sent it to

Iinglorius." --
house.                 --hav"eFlfuinmishinead  my Salmonia,
the press.                                     amo sylvasque
                                               be displeased
do not think you will

       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  313

Mr. A  was very amiable in calling on me.

There is nothing that annoys me so much in my

illness as my helplessness in not being able to in

dulge in society.
       Your grateful and affectionate friend,
                                              H. Davy.

   We will now, for a while, leave our philosopher
to pursue his journey to Italy, while we take a
review of his Salmonia ; the first edition of which

Iwas published in the Spring of 1828. The second,

and much improved edition,* from which shall

take my extracts, is dated from Laybach, Illyria,
September 28, 1828, but which did not appear
until 1829.

   We are told in the preface, that these pages
formed the occupation of the author during some
months of severe and dangerous illness, when he
was wholly incapable of attending to more useful
studies, or of following more serious pursuits ; --

that they constituted his amusement in many hours,

which otherwise would have been unoccupied and

tedious ; --and that they are published in the hope
that they may possess an interest for those persons

who derive pleasure from the simplest and most
attainable kind of rural sports, and who practise the
art, or patronise the objects of contemplation, of the

philosophical angler.

   He informs us that the conversational manner

   * " Salmonia, or Days of Fly-fishing ; in a series of Conver

sations ; with some account of the habits of Fishes belonging to
the genus Salmo. By an Angler. Second edition. -- London,
John Murray, 1829."

314 THE LIFE OF

and discursive style were chosen as best suited to

the state of health of the author, who was incapable

of considerable efforts and long continued atten

tion ; and he adds, that he could not but have in

mind a model, which has fully proved the utility

and   --po"pTuhlaerityCoomf pthleiste  method of   treating this  sub
ject                                     Angler,"  by Walton      and

Cotton.

   The characters chosen to support these conver

sations, were Halieus, who is supposed to be an
accomplished fly -fisher -- Oknither, who is to be

regarded as a gentleman generally fond of the
sports of the field, though not a finished master
of the art of angling --Poietes, who is to be con

sidered as an enthusiastic lover of nature, and par
tially acquainted with the mysteries of fly-fishing ;
and Physicus, who is described uninitiated as an

angler, but as a person fond of enquiries in natural

history and philosophy.

Such are the personages by whose aid the ma

chinery is to be worked ; but he tells us that they
are of course imaginary, though the sentiments

attributed to them, the author may sometimes have

gained from recollections of real conversations with

friends, from whose society much of the happiness

of his early life had been derived ; and he admits

that, in the portrait of the character of Halieus,

given in the last dialogue, a likeness will not fail

to be recognised to that of the character of a most

estimable physician, ardently beloved by his friends,

and esteemed and venerated by the public.
   The work is dedicated to Dr. Babington, " in re

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  315

society, and in gratitude for an uninterrupted friend

Iship of a quarter of a century."

       am informed by Lady Davy, that the en
gravings of the fish, by which the work is illus
trated, are from drawings of his own execution ; so
that he could not, like old Isaac Walton, " take the

liberty to commend the excellent pictures to him

that likes not the book, because they concern not

himself."

   It has frequently happened that, while works of

deep importance have justly conferred celebrity

upon the author, his minor productions have been

entirely indebted to his name for their popularity,
and to his authority for their value. This, how
ever, cannot be said of Salmonia, for it possesses
the stamp of original genius, and bears internal
evidence of a talent flowing down from a very high

source of intelligence. In a scientific point of view,
it exhibits that penetrating observation by which a
gifted mind is enabled to extract out of the most

ordinary facts and every-day incidents, novel views
and hidden truths; while it shows that a humble

art (I beg pardon of the brothers of the Angle)

may, through the skill of the master, be made the
means of calling forth the affections of the heart,
and of reflecting all the colours of the fancy. By

regarding the work in relation to the history and

condition of its author, it certainly acquires much
additional interest. The familiar and inviting style
of the dialogue, whenever he discusses questions
of natural history, must convince us that he was as

well calculated to instruct in the Lyceum, as we

316 THE LIFE OF

Composed in the hour of sickness and prostration,

the work displays throughout its composition a tone

of dignified morality and an expansion of feeling,

which may be regarded as in unison with a mind

Ichastened but not subdued, "andelnovoyk,i"ngsayfos rwhea,rd"  to
                                                               no
a better state of existence.

Iquality of the mind or intellect in others ; be it

genius, power, wit, or fancy : but if could choose
what would be most delightful, and I believe most

Iuseful to me, should prefer a firm religious belief

to every other blessing ; for it makes fife a discipline

of goodness ; creates new hopes, when all earthly

hopes vanish ; and throws over the decay, the de

struction of existence, the most gorgeous of all

lights ; awakens life even in death, and from cor

ruption and decay calls up beauty and divinity ;

makes an instrument of torture and of shame the

ladder of ascent to paradise ; and, far above all com

binations of earthly hopes, calls up the most delight

ful visions of palms and amaranths, the gardens of

the blest, the security of everlasting joys, where the

sensualist and the sceptic view only gloom, decay,

annihilation, and despair !"

   While describing an animated scene of insect en

joyment, he bursts into an apostrophe, highly cha

racteristic of that quick and happy talent for seizing

analogies, which so eminently distinguished all his

Iwri"tinPhgys.sicus.s--haSllinqcueottehethesupnashsaagse.disappeared, the
cool of the evening has, I suppose, driven the little

winged plunderers to their homes; but see, there

are two or three humble bees which seem languid

with the cold, and yet they have their tongues still

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

in the fountain of honey. I believe one of them is

actually dead, yet his mouth is still attached to the

flower. He has fallen asleep, and probably died

wh"ilsOtrnmitahkeirn.g--hWishlaastt  meal of ambrosia.     quitting

                                     an enviable destiny,

life in the moment of enjoyment, following an in

stinct, the gratification of which has been always
pleasurable ! so beneficent are the laws of Divine

Wisdom.

  I" Physicus. -- Like Ornither, I consider the des

tiny of this insect as desirable, and cannot help
regarding the end of human life as most happy,

when terminated under the impulse of some strong

Ienergetic feeling, similar in its nature to an instinct.

  should not wish to die like Attila, in a moment of
gross sensual enjoyment ; but the death of Epami-
nondas or Nelson, in the arms of victory, their whole

Iattention absorbed in the love of glory, and of their

country, think really enviable.

  I" Poietes. -- consider the death of the martyr or

the saint as far more enviable ; for, in this case,

what may be considered as a Divine instinct of our

nature is called into exertion, and pain is subdued,

Or destroyed, by a secure faith in the power and

mercy of the Divinity. In such cases, man rises

Iabove mortality, and shows his true intellectual su

periority. By intellectual superiority, mean that

of his spiritual nature, for I do not consider the re

sults of reason as capable of being compared with

those of faith. Reason is often a dead weight in life,

destroying feeling, and substituting, for principle,

calculation and caution ; and, in the hour of death, it

often produces fear or despondency, and is rather a

318 THE LIFE OF

bitter draught than nectar or ambrosia in the last

meal of life.

  " Halieus. --I agree with Poietes. The higher and

more intense the feeling under which death takes

Iplace, the happier it may be esteemed ; and think

Ieven Physicus will be of our opinion, when recol
lect the conclusion of a conversation in Scotland.

The immortal being never can quit life with so

much pleasure as with the feeling of immortality

secure, and the vision of celestial glory filling the

mind, affected by no other passion than the pure

and intense love of God."

We are not to suppose that, however soothing

and consolatory such feelings and hopes may have

been, they weaned him from the world, or diminish

ed his natural love of life ; on the contrary, no one

would have more gratefully received the services of
           following passage will sufficiently
           could recover any thing like that
Ia Medea,

testify.
"  as the

   Ah !
freshness of mind which I possessed at twenty-five,

and which, like the dew of the dawning morning,

covered all objects and nourished all things that

grew, and in which they were more beautiful even

Ithan in midday sunshine, -- what would I not give !

All that have gained in an active and not unpro

fitable life. How well I remember that delightful

season, when, full of power, I sought for power in

others; and power was sympathy, and sympathy
power ; -- when the dead and the unknown, the
great of other ages and of distant places were made,

by the force of the imagination, my companions and
friends ; --when every voice seemed one of praise

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                            319

odour of the rose ; and every spray or plant seemed
either the poet's laurel, or the civic oak -- which ap
peared to offer themselves as wreaths to adorn my
throbbing brow. But, alas ! this cannot be.  "

After the example of the great Patriarch of An
glers, the author of Salmonia commences, through
the assistance of the principal interlocutor of the

dialogue, Halieus, to enumerate the delights of
his art, and to vindicate it from the charge of

cruelty.

   " Halieus. --The search after food is an instinct

belonging to our nature; and from the savage in

his rudest and most primitive state, who destroys a
piece of game, or a fish, with a club or spear, to
man in the most cultivated state of society, who

employs artifice, machinery, and the resources of

various other animals, to secure his object, the

origin of the pleasure is similar, and its object the

same : but that kind of it requiring most art may

be said to characterize man in his highest or in

tellectual state ; and the fisher for salmon and trout

with the fly employs not only machinery to assist

his physical powers, but applies sagacity to conquer

difficulties ; and the pleasure derived from inge

nious resources and devices, as well as from active

pursuit, belongs to this amusement. Then, as to

its philosophical tendency, it is a pursuit of moral

discipline, requiring patience, forbearance, and com

mand of temper. As connected with natural science,

it may be vaunted as demanding a knowledge of the
habits of a considerable tribe of created beings, --

fishes, and the animals that they prey upon, and

320 THE LIKE OF

weather, and its changes, the nature of waters, and

of the atmosphere. As to its poetical relations, it

carries us into the most wild and beautiful scenery

of nature ; amongst the mountain lakes, and the
clear and lovely streams that gush from the higher
ranges of elevated hills, or that make their way
through the cavities of calcareous strata. How de
lightful in the early spring, after the dull and te
dious time of winter, when the frosts disappear and

the sunshine warms the earth and waters, to wander

forth by some clear stream, to see the leaf bursting
from the purple bud, to scent the odours of the

bank perfumed by the violet, and enamelled, as it
were, with the primrose and the daisy ; to wander
upon the fresh turf below the shade of trees, whose
bright blossoms are filled with the music of the bee;
and on the surface of the waters to view the gaudy
flies sparkling like animated gems in the sunbeams,

whilst the bright and beautiful trout is watching
them from below ; to hear the twittering of the
water birds, who, alarmed at your approach, rapidly
hide themselves beneath the flowers and leaves of

the water-lily ; and, as the season advances, to find
all these objects changed for others of the same
kind, but better and brighter, till the swallow and
the trout contend, as it were, for the gaudy May
fly, and till, in pursuing your amusement in the

calm and balmy evening, you are serenaded by the
songs of the cheerful thrush and melodious night
ingale, performing the offices of paternal love, in
thickets ornamented with the rose and woodbine."

   On vindicating the pursuit from the charge of

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                 321

been commonly adduced upon this occasion. We

have indeed all heard, that the operation of skinning

is a matter of indifference to eels when they are

used to it ; but we are now told fish are so little

annoyed by the hook, that though a trout has

been hooked and played with for some minutes, he
will often, after his escape with the artificial fly in
his mouth, take the natural fly, and feed as if no

thing had happened ; having apparently learnt only

Ifrom the experiment, that the artificial fly is not

proper food. " have caught pikes with four or

five hooks in their mouths, and tackle which they

had broken only a few minutes before ; and the

hooks seemed to have had no other effect than that

of serving as a sort of sauce piquante, urging them

to seize another morsel of the same kind."

Our author, however, takes a more special defence,

by observing that, unlike old Isaac, he employs an

artificial fly, instead of a living bait. Our notions

about the cruelty of field sports is extremely capri
cious. Until the time of the Reformation, the canon

law prohibited the use of the sanguinary recreations
of hunting, hawking, and fowling, while the clergy,

on account of their leisure, were allowed to exercise

the harmless and humane art of angling. In later

days, the indignation against this art has been ex

cited by the supposed sufferings of the worm or bait,

rather than by those of the fish ; and thus far the

author of Salmonia assumed a strong posture of

defence ; but he did not avail himself of all the ad

vantages it commanded. He might have pleaded,

that every fish he caught by his artificial fly was des

tined to prey upon an insect, and that by substitu-
VOL. II.
          Y

322 THE LIFE OF

ting a piece of silk for the latter, he would for every

fish he might destroy, save from destruction many of

those fairy beings that animate the air and sparkle in
the sunbeam ; --but it is, after all, folly to argue

upon the subject of cruelty in our field sports.

That animals should live by preying upon each other

is the very basis of the scheme of creation ; and in

these days it is not necessary to expose the absurdi
ties of the system of Samos and Indostan. Dr.

Franklin, at one period of his life, entertained a sen

timental abhorrence at eating any thing that had

possessed life ; and the reader may, perhaps, not

    reminded of the   manner in which        he
    his prejudice. "   considered," says     he,
Iobject tobe

was curedof
" the capture of every fish as a sort of murder, com

mitted without provocation, since these animals had

neither done, nor were capable of doing, the small

est injury to any one that should justify the measure.

IThis mode of reasoning conceived to be unanswer
Iable. Meanwhile, had formerly been extremely

I Ifond of fish ; and when one of the cod was taken out

of the frying-pan, thought its flavour delicious.

hesitated some time between principle and inclina

tion, till at last recollecting that, when the cod had

'If Ibeen opened, some small fish were found in its belly,
I said to myself,  you eat each other, see no
Ireason why we may not eat you,' -- (His "wish was

father to that thought") -- accordingly dined on the

cod with no small degree of pleasure, and have since

continued to eat like the rest of mankind."
Halieus is made to admit the danger of analysing

too closely the moral character of any of our field

                        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                        323

unfairly   and    foinxc-honusnitsetre,nt"lyrisakttinemg phtsis  to ridicule the
pursuit                                                          neck to see the
          of a

hounds destroy an animal which he preserves to be

destroyed, and which is good for nothing." He
who pursues a pleasure
                                        bec"auWseheitnis  rational, reasons
because   "hfeliescaonuntotbeffeoerle.                    the heart," says
Sterne,
                                        the understanding, it saves
the judgment a world of pains."

   Having, as the author thinks satisfactorily, settled

the preliminary questions, Halieus, succeeds in
persuading Physicus to join him in fishing excur

sions ; just as Piscator is represented by old Isaac,

as having enlisted Venator into the brotherhood of

the angle.

The dialogue now proceeds with great animation,

during which the art and mystery of Piscatory

tactics are unfolded with great skill ; for the details
of which the reader must be referred to the work

itself. If, however, he be not already an angler, it

may save him a world of pains to be informed, that

"totoleamrnaketo  fish  by  the  book is little less absurd than
                  hay   by  the  fair days in the almanack."

   The manner in which he treats the various subjects
of natural history necessarily connected with the

pursuit is both amusing and instructive ; and the
whole work is studded and gemmed, as it were, with

the most poetical descriptions.
  In speaking of the swallow, Poietes exclaims --
I" delight in this living landscape ! The swallow is

one of my favourite birds, and a rival of the night

ingale ; for he cheers my sense of seeing as much as
the other does my sense of hearing. He is the glad

prophet of the year, the harbinger of the best season :
                                   y2

324 THE LIFE OF

he lives a life of enjoyment amongst the loveliest

forms of nature : winter is unknown to him ; and he

leaves the green meadows of England in autumn,
for the myrtle and orange groves of Italy, and for
the palms of Africa : he has always objects of pur

suit, and his success is secure. Even the beings

selected for his prey are poetical, beautiful, and tran

sient. The ephemerae are saved by his means from

a slow and lingering death in the evening, and

killed in a moment, when they have known nothing
of life but pleasure. He is the constant destroyer

of insects-- the friend of man ; and, with the stork

and the ibis, may be regarded as a sacred bird. His

instinct, which gives him his appointed seasons, and

teaches him always when and where to move, may

be regarded as flowing from a divine source ; and he

belongs to the oracles of Nature, which speak the

awful and intelligible language of a present Deity."
  IPoietes considers a full and clear river as the

most poetical object in Nature. --" will not fail
Ito obey your summons. Pliny has, as well as
Irecollect, compared a river to human life.
                                             have
Inever read the passage in his works; but have

been a hundred times struck with the analogy,

particularly amidst mountain scenery. The river,

small and clear in its origin, gushes forth from

rocks, falls into deep glens, and wantons and mean

ders through a wild and picturesque country, nou

rishing only the uncultivated tree or flower by its
dew or spray. In this, its state of infancy and
youth, it may be compared to the human mind,
in which fancy and strength of imagination are

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              325

When the different rills or torrents join, and de

scend into the plain, it becomes slow and stately
in its motions ; it is applied to move machinery, to

irrigate meadows, and to bear upon its bosom the

stately barge ; -- in this mature state it is deep,
strong, and useful. As it flows on towards the sea,
it loses its force and its motion, and at last, as it

were, becomes lost, and mingled with the mighty

abyss of waters."  "  One  might  pursue  the  metaphor

   Halieus adds--
still farther, and say, that in its origin --its thun
dering and foam, when it carries down clay from

the bank, and becomes impure, it resembles the

youthful mind, affected by dangerous passions.
And the influence of a lake, in calming and clearing
the turbid water, may be compared to the effect of

reason in more mature life, when the tranquil, deep,

cool, and unimpassioned mind is freed from its
fever, its troubles, bubbles, noise, and foam. And,
above all, the sources of a river -- which may be
considered as belonging to the atmosphere -- and

its termination in the ocean, may be regarded as
imaging the divine origin of the human mind, and
its being ultimately returned to, and lost in, the in

finite and eternal Intelligence from which it origi

nally sprang."
   Halieus offers some curious observations with

respect to the recollection of fish being associated

I Iwith

   "
surrounding objects.              have pricked retain
 have known a fish that

his station in the river, and refuse the artificial fly,

day after day, for weeks together ; but his memory

may have been kept awake by this practice, and the

326 THE LIFE OF

recollection seems local, and associated with sur

Irounding objects ; and if a pricked trout is chased

into another pool, he will, believe, soon again

take the artificial fly. Or, if the objects around
him are changed, as in autumn, by the decay of

weeds, or by their being cut, the same thing hap

pens ; and a flood or a rough wind, I believe, assists

the fly-fisher, not merely by obscuring the vision
of the fish, but, in a river much fished, by chang
ing the appearance of their haunts : large trouts

almost always occupy particular stations, under, or

close to, a large stone or tree ; and probably, most
of their recollected sensations are connected with

Ithis

   "
dwelling.       --  I  think  undertand you, that the
Physicus.

memory of the danger and pain does not last long,

unless  there   isasasopceiarmteadn, --enst ucshenassatthioen   with    which
        remain                                                          of the
it can                                                         station

trout; and that the recollection of the mere form

of the artificial fly, without this association, is

evanescent.
  I" Ornither. --You are diving into metaphysics ;

yet, think, in fowling, I have observed that the
Amemory of birds is local.
                              woodcock that has

been much shot at and scared in a particular wood,

runs to the side where he has usually escaped, the

moment he hears the dogs ; but if driven into a
new wood, he seems to lose his acquired habits of

caution, and becomes stupid."

   In alluding to the migrations of fishes, Physicus
observes, " That he has always considered that the

two great sources of change of place of animals,
was the providing of food for themselves, and rest

            SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         327

ing-places and food for their young. The great
supposed migrations of herrings from the poles to

the temperate zone appear to be only the approach

of successive shoals from deep to shallow water, for
the purpose of spawning. The migrations of sal
mon and trout are evidently for the purpose of de

positing their ova, or of finding food after they have

spawned."

In explaining the circumstances which render a

migration into shallow water necessary for the de-

velopement of the ova, Davy evidently bears in

mind the    result of his very  first experiment.*    still
            perch, and pike,    deposit their ova in
   " Carp,

water, in spring and summer, when it is supplied with

air by the growth of vegetables ; and it is to the leaves
of plants, which afford a continual supply of oxy
gen to the water, that the impregnated eggs usually

adhere." Again : " Fish in spawning-time always
approach great shallows, or shores covered with

weeds, which, in the process of their growth, under
the influence of the sunshine, constantly supply pure
air to the water in contact with them."

   The following passage will afford a good spe
cimen of the familiar dialogue, while it will convey

to the reader some curious facts connected with the

influence of sunshine.
   " Halieus.-- Well, gentlemen, what sport ?
   " Poietes. --The fish are rising every where ; but

though we have been throwing over them with all

our skill for a quarter of an hour, yet not a single

one will take ; and I am afraid we shall return to

breakfast without our prey.

            * Vol. i. page 40.

328 THE LIFE OF

  I I" Halieus.
Iside, where
-- will try                         ; but        shall go  to  the other
                                    large     fish rising
  see a very                                               --  There !--

I have him at the very first throw --Land this fish,
Iand put him into the well. Now, have another ;

I Iand have no doubt could take half-a-dozen in
this very place, where you have been so long in

fish"inPghywsiicthuos.u--t  success.  have    a    different fly ;      or,

                            You must

have you some unguent or charm to tempt the fish?
If" Halieus. --No such thing.                      any of you will
I Igive me your rod and fly, will answer for it
shall have the same success. I take your rod, Phy
Isicus --and lo

  It" Physicus.
 !                            have  a fish !  the  reason  of  this  ?
                                    can be
--                          What

is perfectly inexplicable to me. Yet Poietes seems

to throw as light as you do, and as well as he did

Iyes"teHrdaalyie. us. -- am surprised that you, who are a

philosopher, cannot discover the reason of this --

Think a little.
" All. --We cannot.
I" Halieus. --As you are my scholars,
                                                               believe
I must teach you. The sun is bright, and you

have been, naturally enough, fishing with your

backs to the sun, which, not being very high, has

thrown the shadows of your rods and yourselves

upon the water, and you have alarmed the fish,

wherever you have thrown a fly. You see, I have

fished with my face towards the sun, and though

inconvenienced by the light, have given no alarm.

Follow my example, and you will soon have sport,

as there is a breeze playing on the water.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  329

an anecdote which I remember to have heard re

specting the late eloquent statesman, Charles James

Fox ; who, walking up Bond Street from one of

the club-houses with an illustrious personage, laid

him a wager, that he would see more cats than the
Prince in his walk, and that he might take which
side of the way he liked. When they got to the

top, it was found, that Mr. Fox had seen thirteen
cats, and the Prince not one. The Royal personage
asked for an explanation of this apparent miracle,
and Mr. Fox said, ' Your Royal Highness took, of

Icourse, the shady side of the way, as most agree

able ; knew that the sunny side would be left to
me, -- and cats always prefer the sunshine.'

   " Halieus. -- There ! Poietes, by following my

Iadvice, you have immediately hooked a fish ; and

while you are catching a brace, will tell you an
anecdote, which as much relates to fly-fishing as
that of Physicus, and affords an elucidation of a
particular effect of light.

   " A manufacturer of carmine, who was aware of

the superiority of the French colour, went to Lyons
for the purpose of improving his process, and bar
gained with the most celebrated manufacturer in
that capital for the acquisition of his secret, for
which he was to pay a thousand pounds. He was

shown all the processes, and saw a beautiful colour

produced, yet he found not the least difference in
the French mode of fabrication and that which he

had constantly adopted. He appealed to the manu

facturer, and insisted that he must have concealed

something. The manufacturer assured him that he

330 THE LIFE OF

time. He minutely examined the water and the

materials, which were the same as his own, and, very

Imuch surprised, said, ' have lost my labour and

my money, for the air of England does not permit
us to make good carmine.' -- ' Stay,' says the French
man, ' do not deceive yourself ; what kind of wea

ther is it now ?'-- ' A bright, sunny day,' said the

Englishman. -- ' And such are the days,' said the

IFrenchman, ' on which I make my colour. Were

  to attempt to manufacture it on a dark or cloudy
day, my result would be the same as yours. Let

me advise you, my friend, always to make carmine

Ion bright and sunny days.'-- ' will,' says the Eng
Ilishman, ' but fear I shall make very little in

London.'

   " Poietes. -- Your anecdote is as much to the pur
pose as Physicus's ; yet I am much obliged to you

Ifor the hint respecting the effect of shadow, for

have several times, in May and June, had to com
plain of too clear a sky, and wished, with Cotton, for

'  A  day with not too   bright a  beam   ;
   A  warm, but not a   scorching  sun.'
                                          "

  A very amusing and philosophical conversation

on those natural phenomena, which have been vul

garly viewed as prophetic of dry or wet weather,
may be well adduced as illustrative of that genius
which, by the aid of a light of its own, imparts to
the most trite objects all the charms of novelty.

  I" Poietes. -- hope we shall have another good

Iday to-morrow, for the clouds are red in the west.

   " Physicus. -- have no doubt of for the red

has tint of purple.
a

                                                     it,

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                             331

" Halieus. -- Do you know why this tint portends

fine weather ?

  I" Physicus. -- The air when dry, believe, refracts

more red, or heat-making rays ; and as dry air is not

Iperfectly transparent, they are again reflected in the
horizon.  have generally observed a coppery or

yellow sunset to foretell rain ; but, as an indication

of wet weather approaching, nothing is more certain

than a halo round the moon, which is produced by

the precipitated water ; and the larger the circle, the

nearer the clouds, and consequently the more ready

to fall.

  " Halieus. --I have often observed, that the old

proverb is correct --

' A rainbow in the morning is the shepherd's warning ;
 A rainbow at night is the shepherd's delight.'

-- Can you explain this omen ?

   " Physicus.-- A rainbow can only occur when the

clouds containing or depositing the rain are opposite

to the sun ; and in the evening the rainbow is in the

east, and in the morning in the west; and as our

heavy rains in this climate are usually brought by

the westerly wind, a rainbow in the west indicates

that the bad weather is on the road, by the wind, to

us ; whereas the rainbow in the east proves, that the

in these clouds is  passing from us.
Poietes. -- have    often observed, that
Irain                                     when          the

   "

swallows fly high, fine weather is to be expected or
continued ; but when they fly low and close to the
ground, rain is almost surely approaching. Can you
account for this ?

   " Halieus. -- Swallows follow the flies and gnats,

332 THE LIFE OF

air ; and as warm air is lighter, and usually moister

than cold air, when the warm strata of air are high,

there is less chance of moisture being thrown down
from them by the mixture with cold air ; but when
the warm and moist air is close to the surface, it is

almost certain, that as the cold air flows down into

it,             of water will take place.

    a           have often seen sea-gulls assemble on

              I
"  deposition

   Poietes. --

the land, and have almost always observed, that very

stormy and rainy weather was approaching.                   con
                               a

                                                         1
clude that these animals, sensible of current of air

approaching from the ocean, retire to the land to

shelter themselves from the storm.                          their
   " Ornither. --No such thing. The storm
                               a
                                           is

                                                     is
element; and the little petrel enjoys the heaviest

gale because, living on the smaller sea insects, he
is

         ;

              I
sure to find his food in the spray of heavy wave.
And you may see him flitting above the edge of the

highest surge.   believe that the reason of the mi

gration of sea-gulls and other sea birds to the land,

their security of finding food. They may be ob

served, at this time, feeding greedily on the earth

worms and larvae driven out of the ground by

severe floods and the fish on which they prey in
   is
fine weather in the sea, leave the surface when storms
       ;
prevail, and go deeper. The search after food, asa

we agreed on former occasion,  the principal
                             ;

                                is

                                  I
cause why animals change their places. The dif
ferent tribes of the wading birds always migrate

when rain about to take place and remember

once in Italy having been long waiting, in the end

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  333

Campagna of Rome : a great flight appeared on the
3rd of April, and the day after heavy rain set in,
which greatly interfered with my sport. The vul

Iture, upon the same principle, follows armies ; and

have no doubt, that the augury of the ancients was
a good deal founded upon the observation of the
instincts of birds. There are many superstitions of
the vulgar owing to the same source. For anglers,
in spring, it is always unlucky to see single magpies ;

but two may be always regarded as a favourable
omen ; and the reason is, that in cold and stormy
weather, one magpie alone leaves the nest in search
of food, the other remaining sitting upon the eggs or

the young ones ; but when two go out together, the
weather is warm and mild, and thus favourable for

fishing.
    " Poietes. -- The singular connexions of cause and

effect, to which you have just referred, make super

stition less to be wondered at, particularly amongst
the vulgar; and when two facts, naturally uncon

nected, have been accidentally coincident, it is not

 singular that this coincidence should have been ob
served and registered, and that omens of the most

absurd kind should be trusted in. In the West of
 England, half a century ago, a particular hollow

 noise on the sea-coast was referred to a spirit or
 goblin, called Bucca, and was supposed to foretell a
 shipwreck ; the philosopher knows, that sound tra

 vels much faster than currents in the air--and the

 sound always foretold the approach of a very heavy
 storm, which seldom takes place on that wild and

334 THE LIFE OF

without a shipwreck on some part of its extensive

shores.*

  " Physicus. --All the instances of omens you have

mentioned are founded on reason ; but how can you

explain such absurdities as Friday being an unlucky

Iday, the terror of spilling salt, or meeting an old

woman ? knew a man of very high dignity, who

was exceedingly moved by these omens, and who

never went out shooting without a bittern's claw

fastened to his button-hole by a riband --which he

tho"uPgohiet teesn.s--ureTdhehseim,  good luck.      omens  of death-
                                     as well as the

watches, dreams, &c. are for the most part founded

Iupon some accidental coincidences ; but spilling of

salt, on an uncommon occasion, may, as have

known it, arise from a disposition to apoplexy,
shown by an incipient numbness in the hand, and

may be a fatal symptom ; and persons dispirited

by bad omens sometimes prepare the way for evil

fortune ; for confidence in success is a great means
of insuring it. The dream of Brutus, before the
field of Philippi, probably produced a species of

irresolution and despondency, which was the prin

cipal cause of his losing the battle; and I have

heard, that the illustrious sportsman, to whom you

   * Davy might also have adduced an equally striking superstition,
in illustration of his subject, from the Cornish mines. The miners

not unfrequently hear the echo of their own pickaxes, which they
attribute to little fairies at work, and consider it as a happy omen.

They say upon such occasions, that there will be good luck, as the

Piskeys are at work. It is well known that the echo depends upon
some cavity in the vicinity of the workmen, -- and a cavity, or

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  335

referred just now, was always observed to shoot ill,
because he shot carelessly, after one of his dispiriting

omens.

  " Halieus. -- I have in life met with a few things

which I found it impossible to explain, either by

chance, coincidences, or by natural connexions ; and

I have known minds of a very superior class affected

by them, --persons in the habit of reasoning deeply

and profoundly.

   " Physicus. -- In my opinion, profound minds are
the most likely to think lightly of the resources of
human reason ; it is the pert, superficial thinker
who is generally strongest in every kind of unbelief.
The deep philosopher sees chains of causes and

effects so wonderfully and strangely linked together,
that he is usually the last person to decide upon
the impossibility of any two series of events being
independent of each other ; and in science, so many

natural miracles, as it were, have been brought to
light, --such as the fall of stones from meteors in the

atmosphere, the disarming a thunder-cloud by a
metallic point, the production of fire from ice by a

metal white as silver, and referring certain laws of
motion of the sea to the moon, -- that the physical

enquirer is seldom disposed to assert, confidently,
on any abstruse subjects belonging to the order of

natural things, and still less so on those relating to
the more mysterious relations of moral events and

intellectual natures."

   Old Isaac Walton has amused us with a variety
of absurd fables and superstitions: the author of

Salmonia, on the other hand, touches, as with the

spear of Ithuriel, the monsters and prodigies of the

336 THE LIFE OF

older writers, and they at once assume the forms of

well-ascertained animals, or vegetables. The sea

snake seen by American and Norwegian captains,
appears as a company of porpoises, which in their

gambols, by rising and sinking in lines, would give

somewhat the appearance of the coils of a snake.
The Kraken, or island fish, is reduced into an as

semblage of urticce marince, or sea blubbers. The

Mermaid, into the long-haired seal;* and lastly,

the celebrated Caithness Mermaid assumes the un-
poetical form of a stout young traveller; -- but this
story is far too amusing to be dismissed with a pass

ing notice.

  " A worthy Baronet, remarkable for his benevo

lent views and active spirit, has propagated a story
of this kind, and he seems to claim for his native

country the honour of possessing this extraordinary
animal; but the mermaid of Caithness was cer

tainly a gentleman, who happened to be travelling

on that wild shore, and who was seen bathing by

some young ladies at so great a distance, that not
Ionly genus but gender was mistaken.
                                      am ac

quainted with him, and have had the story from his

own mouth. He is a young man, fond of geolo
gical pursuits, and one day in the middle of August,

having fatigued and heated himself by climbing a

rock to examine a particular appearance of granite,

   * A pretended Mermaid was exhibited some time since in Lon

don, said to have been caught in the Chinese seas. It was soon

discovered to have been manufactured by joining together the head
and bust of two different apes to the lower part of a kipper salmon,
which had the fleshy fin, and all the distinct characters of the

             SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             337

he gave his clothes to his Highland guide, who was

taking care of his pony, and descended to the sea.

The sun was just setting, and he amused himself

for some time by swimming from rock to rock, and

having undipped hair and no cap, he sometimes

threw aside his locks, and wrung the water from

them on the rocks. He happened the year after to

be at Harrowgate, and was sitting at table with two

young ladies from Caithness, who were relating to

a wondering audience the story of the mermaid

they had seen, which had already been published in

the newspapers : they described her, as she usually

is described by poets, as a beautiful animal with

remarkably fair skin and long green hair. The
young gentleman took the liberty, as most of the

rest of the company did, to put a few questions to
the elder of the two ladies, --such as, on what day

and precisely where this singular phenomenon had

appeared. She had noted down not merely the day,
but the hour and minute, and produced a map of

the place. Our bather referred to his journal, and

showed that a human animal was swimming in the
very spot at that very time, who had some of the

characters ascribed to the mermaid, but who laid no

claim to others, particularly the green hair and fish's

tail, but, being rather sallow in the face, was glad

to have such testimony to the colour of his body

Ibeneath his garments."
"  With this story,      must conclude     my review of
   Salmonia," -- a work
                          of considerable  scientific and

popular interest, and which cannot fail to become

the favourite companion of the philosophical angler.
The only production with which it can be at all
   VOL. II.
                         z

338 THE LIFE OF

Icompared is that of the " Complete Angler, by
Izaac Walton."        agree with the critic who re

gards the two authors as pilgrims bound for the

same shrine, resembling each other in their general
habit -- the scalloped hat, the dalmatique, and the
knobbed and spiked staff-- which equalize all who

assume the character ; yet, though alike in purpose,

dress, and demeanour, the observant eye can doubt

less discern an essential difference betwixt those

devotees. The burgess does not make his approach

to the shrine with the stately pace of a knight or

a noble ; the simple and uninformed rustic has not

the contemplative step of the philosopher, or the

quick glance of the poet. The palm of originality

and of exquisite simplicity, which cannot perhaps

be imitated with entire success, must remain with
the common father of anglers -- the patriarch Izaac ;

but it would be absurd to compare his work with the

one written by the most distinguished philosopher

of the nineteenth century, whose genius, like a sun

beam, illumined every recess which it penetrated,

imparting to scarcely visible objects, definite forms

and various colours.
  If the advanced age
                          of Walton was pleaded      by
himself as a sufficient  reason for procuring " a  writ

of ease" the friends of Davy may surely claim at

the hands of the critic an indulgent reception for

a congenial work written in the hour of bodily las

situde and sickness. This benevolent feeling, how
Aever, did not penetrate every heart.
                                       passage,
Iwhich shall presently quote, appears to have given

great offence to the President of the Mechanics'

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                    339

Institute, and to have been considered by him as

the indication of a covert hostility to the spread of

knowledge. The earth had scarcely closed upon the

remains of the philosopher, when, in his anniver

sary speech,* the Autocrat of all the Mechanics,

availing himself of this   "prceotnecxeti,t,  assailed    his   cha
racter with the charge of                      pride,   and    arro

gance."

   The following is the passage in Salmonia, which

this angry and             unjust
sorry to say,                think
I Ipro"vokaemd                      philippic.          carried
                                     the system

too far in England. God forbid, that any useful

light should be extinguished! let the persons who

wish for education receive it ; but it appears to me

that, in the great cities in England, it is, as it were,

forced upon the population ; and that sciences,

which the lower classes can only very superficially
acquire, are presented to them; in consequence of

which they often become idle and conceited, and

above their usual laborious occupations. The un

Iripe fruit of the tree of knowledge is, believe,

always bitter or sour; and scepticism and discon

tentment -- sicknesses of the mind -- are often the

Iresult of devouring it."
Methinks  hear the reader exclaim -- " How

Ilittle could Davy imagine that his prophetic words

would have been so soon fulfilled !"--But would

seriously recommend to the President of the Me-

   * See a Report of the President's speech, at the sixth anni
versary of the Mechanics' Institute, as reported in all the journals
of the day, December 5, 1829.

                                   za

340 THE LIFE OF

chanics' Institute, an anecdote which, if properly

applied, cannot fail to be instructive. -- When
Diogenes, trampling with his dirty feet on the em

Ibroidered couch of Plato, cried out --" Thus do
                 apnrdidreepolifedP--lat"oT!"rulyth, ebupt hwiliothsomphoerer
trample on the
shook his head,

                 it,
pride thou dost good Diogenes."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               341

CHAPTER XV.

Sir H. Davy's paper on the Phenomena of Volcanoes. -- His experi
   ments on Vesuvius. --Theory of Volcanic action His reception
   abroad. -- Anecdotes. -- His last letter to Mr. Poole from Rome.

  -- His paper on the Electricity of the Torpedo. -- Consolations in

Travel, or the Last    Days of  a Philosopher Analysis of the

work. --Reflections  suggested  by its style and composition. --
Davy and Wollaston compared. -- His last illness. -- Arrival at
Geneva.--His Death.

   A short time before Sir Humphry Davy quitted

England, to which he was destined never to return,
he communicated to the Royal Society a paper " On
the Phenomena of Volcanoes ;" which was read on

the 20th of March 1 828, and published in the Trans
actions of that year.

   The object of this memoir was to collect and re

cord the various observations and experiments which

he had made on Vesuvius, during his several visits to
that volcano. The appearances which it presented
in 1814 and 1815 have been already noticed; it was

in December 1819, and during the two succeeding

months, that the mountain offered a favourable op

portunity for making those experiments which form

342 THE LIFE OF

whether any combustion was going on at the mo
ment the lava issued from the mountain ; for this
fact being once discovered, and the nature of the
combustible matter ascertained, we should gain an

immense step towards a just theory of the sources of
volcanic action. For this purpose, he carefully ex
amined both the lava and the elastic fluids with
which it was accompanied. He was unable, how
ever, to detect any thing like deflagration with nitre,

which must have taken place had the smallest quan
tity of carbonaceous matter been present ; nor could
he, by exposing the ignited mass to portions of at
mospheric air, discover that any appreciable quan
tity of oxygen had been absorbed. On immersing
fused lava in water, no decomposition of that fluid
followed, so that there could not have existed any
quantity of the metallic bases of the alkalies or
earths. Common salt, chloride of iron, the sulphates
and muriates of potash, and soda, generally consti
tuted the mass of solid products ; while steam, mu

riatic acid fumes, and occasionally sulphurous acid

vapours, formed the principal elastic matters dis

engaged.

   He informs us it was on the 26th of January

1820, that he had the honour to accompany his
Royal Highness the Prince of Denmark in an ex
cursion to the mountain, on which occasion his

friend, Cavalier Monticelli, was also present. At

this time, the lava was seen nearly white hot through

a chasm near the place where it flowed from the

mountain"; and yet, although he threw nitre upon it
in large quantities through this chasm, there was no

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  343

was made on lava exposed to the free air. He ob

served that the appearance of the sublimations was

very different from that which they had presented

on former occasions ; those near the aperture were

coloured green and blue by salt of copper ; but there

was, as usual, a great quantity of muriate of iron.

On the 5th, the sublimate of the lava was pure

chloride of sodium ; in the sublimate of January 6th,

there were both sulphate of soda and indications of

sulphate of potash ; but in those which he collected

during this last visit, the sulphate of soda was in

much larger quantities, and there was much more of

a salt of potash.
   For nearly three months the craters, of which

there were two, were in activity. The larger one

threw up showers of ignited ashes and stones to a

height apparently of from two hundred to two hun

dred and fifty feet ; and from the smaller crater

steam arose with great violence. Whenever the
crater could be approached, it was found incrusted
with saline matter : and the walk to the edge of the

small crater, on the 6th of January, was through a

mass of loose saline matter, principally common salt

coloured by muriate of iron, in which the foot sunk
Itto some depth.
                  was easy, even at a great dis

tance, to distinguish between the steam disengaged

by one of the craters, and the earthy matter thrown

up by the other. The steam appeared white in the

day, and formed perfectly white clouds, which re
flected the morning and evening light of the purest

tints of red and orange. The earthy matter always

appeared as a black smoke, forming dark clouds, and

in the night it was highly luminous at the moment

344 THE LIFE OF

   He concludes   this paper on Volcanoes with                  some
                 the theory of their phenomena.
observations on                                                  " It
appears," says he, " almost demonstrable, that none

of the chemical causes anciently assigned for vol

canic fires can be true. Amongst these, the com

bustion of mineral coal is one of the most current ;

but it seems wholly inadequate to account for the

phenomena. However large the stratum of pit-coal,

its combustion under the surface could never pro

duce violent and excessive heat ; for the production

of carbonic acid gas, when there was no free circula

tion of air, must tend constantly to impede the pro
cess : and it is scarcely possible that carbonaceous

matter, if such a cause existed, should not be found

in the lava, and be disengaged with the saline or

aqueous products from the bocca or craters. There
are many instances in England of strata of mineral

coal which have been long burning ; but the results

have been merely baked clay and schists, and it has

Ifpro"ducetdhenioderaesoufltLseimmeilrayr  to lava.       that  the  ac
                                           were correct,

tion of sulphur on iron may be a cause of volcanic

fires, sulphate of iron ought to be the great product

of the volcano ; which is known not to be the case ;

and the heat produced by the action of sulphur on

the common metals is quite inadequate to account

for the appearances. When it is considered that
volcanic fires occur and intermit with all the pheno
mena that indicate intense chemical action, it seems

not unreasonable to refer them to chemical causes.

But for phenomena upon such a scale, an immense
mass of matter must be in activity, and the products

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                   345

of the substances primarily active. Now, what are

these products ? Mixtures of the earths in an oxi

dated and fused state, and intensely ignited ; water

and saline substances, such as might be furnished

by the sea and air, altered in such a manner as

might be expected from the formation of fixed oxi

dated matter. But it may be said, if the oxidation

of the metals of the earths be the causes of the phe
nomena, some of these substances ought occasionally

to be found in the lava, or the combustion ought to

be increased at the moment the materials passed

into the atmosphere. But the reply to this objec

tion  thatis,                evident that the changes which

                it

                       ; is
occasion volcanic fires take place in immense sub

terranean cavities and that the access of air to the

acting substances occurs long before they reach the

exterior surface.
   " There no question but that the ground under
              is
                    is
                              a

                                                 ;
the solfaterra  hollow and there                    isscarcely any
                                                                is
reason to doubt of subterraneous communication

between this crater and that of Vesuvius: whenever

Vesuvius in an active state, the solfaterra com
      is
                             examined the bocca of the
                  I
paratively tranquil.

solfaterra on the 21st of February 1820, two days

before the activity of Vesuvius was at its height
                             a
                                          is

                                                         ;

                                                                   a
                                                                               is :
the columns of steam which usually arise in large

quantities when Vesuvius                            tranquil, were now

scarcely visible, and piece of paper thrown into

the aperture did not rise again so that there was

every reason to suppose the existence of descend
ing current of air. The subterraneous thunder

heard at such great distances under Vesuvius

346 THE LIFE OF

cavities below filled with aeriform matter : and the

same excavations which, in the active state of the
volcano, throw out, during so great a length of time,
immense volumes of steam, must, there is every
reason to believe, in its quiet state, become filled
wit"hTaotmowshpahtericextaeirn. t* subterraneous
                                                  cavities may
exist, even in common rocks, is shown in the lime
stone caverns of Carniola, some of which contain
many hundred thousand cubical feet of air ; and in
proportion as the depth of an excavation is greater,
so is the  air more fit for combustion.
             same circumstances which             would  give
   " The

alloys of the metals of the earths the power of pro
ducing volcanic phenomena, namely, their extreme
facility of oxidation, must likewise prevent them
from ever being found in a pure combustible state
in the products of volcanic eruptions ; for before
they reach the external surface, they must not only
be exposed to the air in the subterranean cavities,
but be propelled by steam ; which must possess,
under the circumstances, at least the same facility of
oxidating them    as  air.
                      such  Assuming the hypothesis
of the existence  of        alloys of the metals of the

earths as may burn into lava in the interior, the
whole   phenomena may be easily
action                           explained        from the
        of the water of the sea   and air         on those

metals ; nor is there any fact, or any of the circum-

 " Vesuvius is a mountain admirably fitted, from its form and
situation, for experiments on the effect of
pendulum : and it would be easy in this way  its attraction on the
blem of its cavities. On Etna the problem    to determine the pro
                                             might be solved on a
larger scale."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  347

Istances which have mentioned in the preceding

part of this paper, which cannot be easily explained
according to that hypothesis. For almost all the

volcanoes in the old world of considerable magni

tude are near, or at no considerable distance from

the sea : and if it be assumed that the first eruptions

are produced by the action of sea-water upon the

metals of the earths, and that considerable cavities

are left by the oxidated metals thrown out as lava,
the results of their action are such as might be anti

cipated ; for, after the first eruptions, the oxidations

which produce the subsequent ones may take place
in the caverns below the surface ; and when the sea

is distant, as in the volcanoes of South America,

they may be supplied with water from great subter

ranean lakes, as Humboldt states that some of them

throw up quantities of fish.
   " On the hypothesis of a chemical cause for vol

canic fires, and reasoning from known facts, there

appears to me no other adequate source than the
oxidation of the metals which form the bases of the

earths and alkalies ; but it must not be denied, that

considerations derived from thermometrical expe
riments on the temperature of mines and of sources

of hot water, render it probable that the interior of

the globe possesses a very high temperature : and
the hypothesis of the nucleus of the globe being
composed of fluid matter offers a still more simple
solution of the phenomena of volcanic fires than that

which has been just developed."

  It must be admitted that the concluding sentence

of this memoir is rather equivocal. He states that

 348 THE LIFE OF

but that the hypothesis which assumes the high
temperature of the interior of the globe is the most
simple; but he leaves us in doubt as to his own
belief upon the subject. In his " Last Days," how
ever, we shall find that he offers a less reserved
opinion upon this question.

  IWith respect to Sir Humphry Davy's last jour

ney to Rome, have nothing of particular interest
to relate. Universally known and respected, a
member of almost every scientific society in Europe,
there was not a part of the Continent in which he

felt as a stranger in a foreign land. I might, in ad

dition to the circumstances which have been already
mentioned, relate several anecdotes in proof of the
widely-extended popularity which his genius and
discoveries had secured for him. The following

striking incidents deserve particular notice. --Whilst

sporting in Austria, he was assaulted by some pea
sants ; and the outrage was no sooner made known
to the Emperor, than he expressed his sorrow and
indignation in the strongest language, and imme
diately directed that a party of troops should sur
round the district, and a most rigorous search be
made for the culprits. The search was of course
successful, and the " Carinthian boors" received me

Irited chastisement.

   For the following anecdote am indebted to Lady
Davy. Her Ladyship was travelling alone, on ac
count of ill health, and upon arriving at Basle, she

naturally felt a strong desire to visit its far-famed

                    SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.      349

the only day which afforded her this opportunity,

and so strictly is the sabbath observed at that place,
that she was at once informed that an admission to

the library, under any circumstances, was altogether

impossible. She nevertheless addressed a note to
the librarian, stating to him her name, and the rea

sons for her unusual request. He immediately re

turned an answer, and appointed the hour of ten

for her visit. Having shown her all that deserved

i"nsMpeacdtiaomn,,  he concluded his attentions by saying,

                    I have held the keys of this library for

thirty years, during which period only three persons

have been admitted to see its treasures on the Sun

day ; two of these were crowned heads, the third the

wife of the most celebrated philosopher in Europe."
   The following is the last letter which Davy ever

wrote to his much-valued friend Mr. Poole. --

                    TO THOMAS POOLE, ESQ.

MY DEAR POOLE,      Rome, Feb. 6, 1829.

  I have not written to you during my absence
Ifrom England, because had no satisfactory account

of any marked progress towards health to give

Iyou, and the feelings of an invalid are painful

enough for himself, and should, think, never form

a part of his correspondence; for they are not di

I Iminished by the conviction that they are felt by

others. Would were better ! would then write

to you an agreeable letter from this glorious city ;
Ibut I am here wearing away the winter; a ruin
amongst ruins !     am anxious to hear from you, --

very anxious, so pray write to me with this address,
" Sir H. Davy, Inglese, posta restanti, Rovigo,

350 THE LIFE OF

Italia." You know you must pay the postage to

the frontier, otherwise the letters, like one a friend

sent to me, will go back to you. Pray be so good
as to be particular in the direction, --the " Inglese"
Iis necessary.
                hope you got a copy of my little
Itrifle " Salmonia."
                          ordered copies to be sent to
Iyou, to Mr. W
                          , and to Mr. Baker : but as the

course of letters in foreign countries is uncertain,
am not sure you received them ; if not, you will

have lost little ; a second edition will soon be out,

which will be in every respect more worthy of your
Iperusal, being, think, twice (not saying much for
Iit) as entertaining and philosophical.                                 will take
Icare by early orders that you have this book.

write and philosophize a good deal, and have nearly

Ifinished a work with a higher aim than the little

book speak of above, and which I shall dedicate
to you. It contains the essence of my philosophical
                          of my poetical reveries. It
opinions,  "  and some                                                     ; is,
              Salmonia,"  an amusement of my sickness
like the
but " paulo majora canamus."
                                sometimes think of
II
      inI
            III

                                          a

                              it I

                                                                     a
the lines of Waller, and seem to feel their truth                       :

" The soul's dark cottage, batter'd and decay'd,

  Lets new lights through chinks that Time has made."

have, notwithstanding my infirmities, attended

to scientific objects whenever  was in my power,

and have sent the Royal Society paper which

they will publish, on the peculiar Electricity of the

Torpedo, which think bears remotely upon the func

tions of life.  attend good deal to Natural His

tory, and think have recognised in the Mediter

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             351

Ithe conger and the murana of the ancients.  have

no doubt Mr. Baker is right about the distinction
Ibetween the conger and the common eel.
                                             am

very anxious to hear what he thinks about their ge

Ineration. Pray get from him a distinct opinion on
this subject.  am at this moment getting the eels

in the markets here dissected, and have found ova in

plenty. Pray tell me particularly what Mr. Baker

has done ; this is a favourite subject with me, and

you can give me no news so interesting. My dear
friend, I shall never forget your kindness to me.
You, with one other person, have given me the little

Ihappiness have enjoyed since my severe visitation.
  I fight against sickness and fate, believing I have

still duties to perform, and that even my illness is

connected in some way with my being made useful

to my fellow-creatures. I have this conviction full

on my mind, that intellectual beings spring from

the same breath of Infinite Intelligence, and return

to it again, but by different courses. Like rivers,

born amidst the clouds of heaven, and lost in the
deep and eternal ocean --some in youth, rapid and

short-lived torrents ; some in manhood, powerful

and copious rivers ; and some in age, by a winding

and slow course, half lost in their career, and making

their exit through many sandy and shallow mouths.
I hope to be at Rovigo about the first week in
IApril.
         travel slowly and with my own horses.
If you will come and join me there, I can give you

a place in a comfortable carriage, and can show you

the most glorious country in Europe-- Illyria and

Styria, and take you to the French frontier before

352 THE LIFE OF

you can come, do so at once. I have two servants,
and can accommodate you with every thing. I
Ithink of taking some baths before return, in
IUpper Austria ; but I write as if I were a strong
man, when  am like a pendulum, as it were,

swinging between death and life.

God bless you, my dear Poole.

          Your grateful and affectionate friend,

                                           H. Daw.

Pray remember me to our friends at Stowey.

   His paper on the Electricity of the Torpedo, to

which he alludes in the foregoing letter, appears to
have been written shortly after he had finished his
" Salmonia," as it is dated from Lubiana, Illyria, on
the 24th of October, and it was read before the

Royal Society on the 20th of November 1828, and
published in the first part of the Transactions for

1829. It will be remembered, that this subject had

long engaged his attention ; and he expresses his
surprise that the electricity of living animals should
not have been an object of greater attention, both on
account of its physiological importance, and its gene
ral relation to the science of electro-chemistry.

   When Volta discovered his wonderful pile, he
imagined he had made a perfect resemblance of the
organ of the Gymnotus and Torpedo ; and Davy
observes, that whoever has felt the shocks of the

natural and artificial instruments must have been

convinced, as far as sensation is concerned, of their

strict analogy.

   After the discovery of the chemical power of the

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  353

ascertaining whether this property was possessed by
the electrical organs of living animals ; for which

purpose, he instituted various experiments, but he

could not discover that such was the fact. Upon

mentioning his researches to Signor Volta, with whom

he passed some time in the summer of 1815, the Ita

lian philosopher showed him a peculiar form of his

instrument, which appeared to fulfil the conditions of

the organs of the torpedo ; viz. a pile, of which the

fluid substance was a very imperfect conductor,

such as honey or a strong saccharine extract, which

required a certain time to become charged, and
which did not decompose water, though it commu

nicated weak shocks.

The discovery by Oersted of the effects of Vol

taic electricity on the magnetic needle induced
Davy to examine whether the electricity of living

animals possessed a similar power. Having, after

some trouble, procured two lively and recently

caught Torpedoes, he passed the shocks from the
largest of these animals a number of times through

the circuit of an extremely delicate magnetic elec

trometer, but, although every precaution was used,

not the slightest deviation of, or effect on, the

nee"dTlehecsoeuldnebgeatpiveerceriveesudl.ts," says he, " may be ex
plained by supposing that the motion of the elec

tricity in the torpedinal organ is in no measurable

time, and that a current of some continuance is ne

cessary to produce the deviation of the magnetic

Ineedle ; and found that the magnetic electrometer

was equally insensible to the weak discharge of a

Leyden jar as to that of the torpedinal organ ;

VOL. II.              2a

354 THE LIFE OF

though whenever there was a continuous current

from the smallest surfaces in Voltaic combinations

of the weakest power, but in which some chemical

action was going on, it was instantly and powerfully
affected. Two series of zinc and silver, and paper

moistened in salt and water, caused the permanent

deviation of the needle several degrees, though the

plates of zinc were only one-sixth of an inch in

diameter.

  " It would be desirable to pursue these enquiries

with the electricity of the Gymnotus, which is so

much more powerful than that of the Torpedo ; but

if they are now to be reasoned upon, they seem to

show a stronger analogy between common and ani

Imal electricity, than between Voltaic and animal
electricity ; it is however,                 think, more probable

that animal electricity will be found of a distinctive

and peculiar kind.

   " Common electricity is excited upon non-con

ductors, and is readily carried off by conductors and

imperfect conductors. Voltaic electricity is excited

upon combinations of perfect and imperfect con

ductors, and is only transmitted by perfect con
ductors, or imperfect conductors of the best kind.

  " Magnetism, if it be a form of electricity, be

longs only to perfect conductors ; and, in its modi

fications, to a peculiar class of them.
   " The animal electricity resides only in the im

perfect conductors forming the organs of living

animals, and its object in the economy of nature is

to  "acDt iosntinlcivtiionngs  animals.
                                 might
                                         be  established  in  pursuing

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                         355

in these different forms ; but it is scarcely possible

to avoid being struck by another relation of this

subject. The torpedinal organ depends for its
powers upon the will of the animal. John Hunter

has shown how copiously it is furnished with nerves.
In examining the
                          columnar structure of the organ
of the Torpedo, I         have never been able to discover

arrangements of different conductors similar to those
in galvanic combinations, and it seems not impro

bable that the shock depends upon some property
                           action of
dev"eTloopeadttbeympthte              the nerves.         of
                          to reason   upon any phenomena

this kind as dependent upon a specific fluid would
be wholly vain. Little as we know of the nature

of electrical action, we are still more ignorant of the

nature of the functions of the nerves. There seems,

however, a gleam of light worth pursuing in the pe
culiarities of animal electricity, -- its connexion with

so large a nervous system, its dependence upon the

will of the animal, and the instantaneous nature of its

transfer, which may lead, when pursued by adequate

enquirers, to results important for physiology."

   He concludes this paper by expressing his fear

that the weak state of his health will prevent him

from following the subject with the attention it

seems to deserve ; and he therefore communicates

these imperfect trials to the Royal Society, in the

hope that they may lead to more extensive and pro

found researches.

We come now to the consideration of the last
                          genius --" Consolations in Travel,
production of his
or the Last Days          of a Philosopher :" A work which,

he informs us in the preface, was composed imme

                          2a2

356 THE LIFE OF

diately after Salmonia, under the same unfavourable
and painful circumstances, and at a period when his
constitution suffered from new attacks. From this
exercise of the mind, he tells us. that he derived

some pleasure and some consolation, when most

other sources of consolation and pleasure were
closed to him ; and he ventures to hope that those
hours of sickness may be not altogether unprofitable
to persons in perfect health. His brother, Dr.
Davy, who edited the work after the decease of Sir
Humphry, informs us that it was concluded at the
very moment of the invasion of the author's last
illness, and that, had his life been prolonged, it is
probable some additions and some changes would

have been made.

   " The characters of the persons of the dialogue,"
continues the Editor, " were intended to be ideal, at
least in great part ; -- such they should be considered
by the reader ; and it is to be hoped, that the inci
dents introduced, as well as the persons, will be
viewed only as subordinate and subservient to the
sentiments and the doctrines. The dedication, it

may be specially noticed, is the Author's own, and in

the very words dictated by himself at a time when
he had lost the power of writing, except with

extreme difficulty, owing to the paralytic attack,
although he retained in a very remarkable manner
all his mental faculties unimpaired and unclouded."

The words of the Dedication are " To Thomas
Poole, Esq. of Nether Stowey ; in remembrance
of thirty years of continued and faithful friendship."

    This is a most extraordinary and interesting work :

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  357

fancy, and the extravagance of its conceptions, but
from the bright light of scientific truth which is con

stantly shining through its metaphorical tissue, and

irradiating its most shadowy imaginings. It may

be compared to the tree of the lower regions in the
Mneid, to every leaf of which was attached a dream ;

and yet, however wildly his fancy may dream, his
philosophy never sleeps ; and in his exit from the
land of phantoms, the author can in no instance be
accused of having mistaken the gate of ivory for
that of horn. To the biographer, the work is of
the highest interest and value, by confirming, in a

remarkable manner, the opinion so frequently ex
pressed in the course of these memoirs, with respect
to the diversified talents of Sir Humphry Davy ;

and above all, by elucidating that rare combination

of imagination with judgment, which imparted to

his genius its more striking peculiarities.

   The work consists of six Dialogues: -- 1. The
Vision ; 2. Discussions connected with the
Vision in the Colosseum; 3. The Unknown;
4. The Proteus, or Immortality ; 5. The Che
mical Philosopher ; and 6. Pola, or Time.

   The interlocutors of the first dialogue are two in
tellectual Englishmen, one of whom the author calls
Ambrosio; a man of highly cultivated taste, great
classical erudition, and minute historical knowledge :
a Catholic in religion, but so liberal in his senti

ments, that in another age he might have been
secretary to Ganganelli. The other friend, whom
he calls Onuphrio, was a man of a very different
character : belonging to the English aristocracy, he

358 THE LIFE OF

and rank ; but his manners were gentle, his temper
good, and his disposition amiable. Having been
partly educated at a northern university in Britain,
he had adopted views in religion which went even
beyond toleration, and which might be regarded as

entering the verge of scepticism. For a patrician,
he was very liberal in his political views. His

imagination was poetical and discursive, his taste

good, and his tact extremely fine, --so exquisite, in
deed, that it sometimes approached to morbid sen

sibility, and disgusted him with slight defects, and
made him keenly sensible of small perfections to
which common minds have been indifferent.

   The author, with these his two friends, makes an

excursion to the Colosaeum, and the conversation,
which a view of those magnificent ruins produced,
together with the account of a dream, or vision,
which occurred to him while left alone amidst these

mouldering monuments, forms the subject-matter

of the first dialogue. It is impossible for any per

son of the least imagination to contemplate this
decay of former magnificence without strong emo
tion ; but the direction and tone of such feeling will
be necessarily modified by the qualities of the mind
in which it is excited ; and the author has therefore
very properly assigned to each of the dramatis per
sona, such opinions as might best correspond with

his character and temperament.

   They are all represented as being struck with the
transiency of human monuments; but Ambrosio
views with triumph the sanctifying influence of a

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                        359

the farther decay of the pile. " Without the influ
ence of Christianity," he exclaims, " these majestic

ruins would have been dispersed or levelled to the

dust. Plundered of their lead and iron by the bar

barians, Goths and Vandals, and robbed even of
their stones by Roman princes -- the Barberini, they

owe what remains of their relics to the sanctifying

influence of that faith which has preserved for the

world all that was worth preserving, not merely arts

and literature, but likewise that which constitutes

the progressive nature of intellect, and the institu

tions which afford to us happiness in this world, and
hhoepceosntoinf uaesb,le--ss"edWihmamt oartcaolinttyrasint  the next."    And
                                                            the present
                                                                         appli

cation of this building, connected with holy feelings

and exalted hopes, is to that of the ancient one, when

it was used for exhibiting to the Roman people the

destruction of men by wild beasts, or of men more

savage than wild beasts by each other, to gratify a

horrible appetite for cruelty, founded upon a still

more detestable lust, that of universal domination !

And who would have supposed, in the time of Titus,

that a faith, despised in its insignificant origin, and

persecuted from the supposed obscurity of its founder
and its principles, should have reared a dome to the

memory of one of its humblest teachers, more glo
rious than was ever framed for Jupiter or Apollo in

the ancient world, and have preserved even the ruins

of the temples of the Pagan deities, and have burst

forth in splendour and majesty, consecrating truth
amidst the shrines of error, employing the idols of

the Roman superstition for the most holy purposes,

360 THE LIFE OF

and rising a bright and constant light amidst the

dark and starless night which followed the destruc

tion of the Roman empire !"

   It was not to be expected that Onuphrio, whose

views are represented as verging upon scepticism,

should have tacitly coincided in these opinions of
Ambrosio. He admits, indeed, that some little of

the perfect state in which these ruins exist may have

been owing to the causes just described ; but these

causes, he maintains, have only lately begun to

"Ioperate, and the mischief was done before Chris

tianity was established at Rome. " Feeling differ
ently on these subjects," says he,  admire this

venerable ruin rather as the record of the destruc

tion of the power of the greatest people that ever

existed, than as a proof of the triumph of Christi

anity ; and I am carried forward, in melancholy an

ticipation, to the period when even the magnificent

dome of St. Peter's will be in a similar state to that

in which the Colosaeum now and when its ruins; is,

may be preserved by the sanctifying influence of

some new and unknown faith when perhaps the
statue of Jupiter, which at present receives the kiss

of the devotee, as the image of St. Peter, may be

employed for another holy use, as the personification

of future saint or divinity and when the monu
a        ;
ments of the Papal magnificence shall be mixed
      I     is
with the same dust as that which now covers the

tombs of the Caesars.
   " Such, am sorry to say, the general history

of all the works and institutions belonging to hu

manity. They rise, flourish, and then decay and

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  361

proportional to that of their elevation. In ancient
Thebes or Memphis, the peculiar genius of the

people has left us monuments from which we can
judge of their arts, though we cannot understand

the nature of their superstitions. Of Babylon and of

Troy, the remains are almost extinct ; and what
we know of those famous cities is almost entirely
derived from literary records. Ancient Greece and
Rome we view in the few remains of their monu
ments; and the time will arrive when modern

Rome shall be what ancient Rome now is ; and

ancient Rome and Athens will be what Tyre or

Carthage now are, known only by coloured dust in

the desert, or coloured sand, containing the frag
ments of bricks, or glass, washed up by the wave of

a stormy sea."

   For this desponding view of passing events,
 Onuphrio finds consolation in the evidences of re
vealed religion. In the origin, progress, elevation,
decline, and fall of the empires of antiquity, he sees

proofs that they were intended for a definite end in
the scheme of human redemption ; and he finds pro

phecies which have been amply verified. He regards
the foundation or the ruin of a kingdom, which

appears in civil history so great an event, as com
paratively of small moment in the history of man

and in his religious institutions. He considers the
establishment of the worship of one God amongst

 a despised and contemned people, as the most im
 portant circumstance in the history of the early

 world. He regards the Christian dispensation as
 naturally arising out of the Jewish, and the doc
 trines of the Pagan nations all preparatory to the

362 THE LIFE OF

triumph and final establishment of a creed fitted for

the most enlightened state of the human mind, and

equally adapted to every climate and every people."

   We cannot but regard these passages with great
interest, as indicating the train of thought which

must have occupied the mind of their author, and

as proving that, in his latter days, he not only stu
died the doctrines of Christianity, but derived the

greatest consolation from its tenets.

  After some farther conversation, Onuphrio and

Ambrosio leave their friend the author to pursue his

meditations amidst the solitude of the ruins.

Seated in the moonshine on one of the steps lead

ing to the seats supposed to have been occupied by

the patricians in the Colosaeum at the time of the
public games, the train of ideas in which he had

before indulged continued to flow with a vividness

and force increased by the stillness and solitude of

the scene, and by the full moon, which, he observes,

has always a peculiar effect on these moods of feel

ing in his mind, giving to them a wildness and a

kind of indefinite sensation, such as he supposes

bel"onIgt  at all  times to the true  poetical  temperament.
           must    be so," thought
                                      he, " no  new city will

rise again out of the double ruins of this ; no new

empire will be founded upon these colossal remains

of that of the old Romans. The world, like the

individual, flourishes in youth, rises to strength in

manhood, falls into decay in age ; and the ruins of

an empire are like the decrepid frame of an indi
vidual, except that they have some tints of beauty,
which nature bestows upon them. The sun of

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  363

West, and is now at its meridian ; in a few cen

turies more, it will probably be seen sinking below
the horizon, even in the new world ; and there will

be left darkness only where there is a bright light,
deserts of sand where there were populous cities,

and stagnant morasses where the green meadow, or

the bright corn-field once appeared. Time," he ex

claimed, " which purifies, and, as it were, sanctifies

the mind, destroys and brings into utter decay the

body ; and even in nature its influence seems al

ways degrading. She is represented by the poet as
eternal in her youth ; but amongst these ruins she
appears to me eternal in her age, and here, no traces
of renovation appear in the ancient of days."

   He had scarcely concluded this ideal sentence,

when his reverie became deeper, and his imagina
tion called up a spirit, who, having rebuked him

for his ignorance and presumption, undeceives him
in his views of the history of the world, by unfold
ing to him in a vision the progress of man from a

state of barbarity to that of high civilization. He
is first shown a country covered with forests and

marshes ; wild animals were grazing in large savan
nahs, and carnivorous beasts, such as lions and tigers,
occasionally disturbing and destroying them. Man
appeared as a naked savage, feeding upon wild fruits,
or devouring shell-fish, or fighting with clubs for
the remains of a whale which had been thrown upon
the shore. His habitation was a cave in the earth
-- " See the birth of Time !" exclaimed the Genius ;
" look at man in his newly-created state, full of
youth and vigour. Do you see aught in this state

to admire or envy ?"

364 THE LIFE OF

   In the next scene, a country opened upon his view,
which appeared partly wild and partly cultivated ;
and men were seen covered with the skins of ani

mals, and driving cattle to enclosed pastures ; others

were reaping and collecting corn, and others again
were making it into bread. Cottages appeared fur
nished with many of the conveniences of life. The

Genius now said, " Look at these groups of men
who are escaped from the state of infancy ; they
owe their improvement to a few superior minds still
amongst them. That aged man whom you see with

a crowd around him taught them to build cottages ;
from that other they learnt to domesticate cattle ;

from others, to collect and sow corn and seeds of
fruit. And these arts will never be lost ; another
generation will see them more perfect. You shall
be shown other visions of the passages of time;

but as you are carried along the stream which flows

Ifrom the period of creation to the present moment,

   shall only arrest your transit to make you observe

Isome circumstances which will demonstrate the

truths wish you to know." He then proceeds to

describe in succession the different scenes as they
appeared before him, and to relate the observations
by which his genius, or intellectual guide, accom
panied him.

  A great extent of cultivated plains, large cities on

the sea-shore, palaces, forums, and temples, were

displayed before him. He saw men associated in
groups, mounted on horses, and performing military

exercises ; galleys moved by oars on the ocean ;

roads intersecting the country covered with tra

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         36.5

vellers,  aTndhecoGnetnaiiunsingnowcarsraiaidg,es"  moved by men or
horses.
                                                    You see the early

state of civilization of man : the cottages of the last

race you beheld have become improved into stately

dwellings, palaces, and temples, in which use is

Icombined with ornament. The few men to whom,

as said before, the foundations of these improve

ments were owing, have had divine honours paid to

their memory. But look at the instruments belong

ing to this generation, and you will find they were
only of brass. You see men who are talking to

crowds around them, and others who are apparently

amusing listening groups by a kind of song or reci

tation ; these are the earliest bards and orators ; but

all their signs of thought are oral, for written lan

guage does not yet exist."
   The Genius next presented to him a scene of

varied business and imagery. He saw a man who

bore in his hands the same instruments as our mo

dern smiths, presenting a vase, which appeared to be

made of iron, amidst the acclamations of an assem

bled multitude ; and he saw in the same place men

who carried rolls of papyrus in their hands, and
wrote upon them with reeds containing ink, made

from the soot of wood mixed with a solution of
glue.-- " See," the Genius said, " an immense change

produced in the condition of society by the two

arts of which you now see the origin ; the one, that

of rendering iron malleable, which is owing to a

single individual, an obscure Greek ; the other, that

of making thought permanent in written characters,
-- an art which has gradually arisen from the hiero

366 THE LIFE OF

glyphics which you may observe on yonder pyra

mids. You will now see human life more replete

with power and activity."

   In the scenes that succeeded, he saw bronze in

struments thrown away ; malleable iron converted

into hard steel, and applied to a thousand purposes
of civilized life ; bands of men traversing the sea,

founding colonies, building cities, and, wherever
they established themselves, carrying with them
their peculiar arts. He saw the Roman world

succeeded by cities filled with an idle and luxurious

population, and the farms which had been cultivated
by warriors, who left the plough to take the com
mand of armies, now in the hands of slaves ; and the

militia of free men supplanted by bands of merce

naries, who sold the Empire to the highest bidder.
He saw immense masses of warriors collecting in

the North and East, carrying with them no other

proofs of cultivation but their horses and steel arms.
He saw these savages every where plundering cities
and destroying the monuments of arts and literature.
Ruin, desolation, and darkness were before him, and

he closed his  theeyesGetoniuasv,oid"  the  melancholy scene.
                                       the
" See," said                                termination of a

power believed by its founders invincible, and in

tended to be eternal. But you will find, though

the glory and greatness belonging to its military

genius have passed away, yet those belonging to
the arts and institutions by which it adorned and

dignified life, will again arise in another state of

society."

Upon again opening his eyes, he saw Italy re

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  367

governments almost upon the model of ancient
Athens and Rome, and these different small states
rivals in arts and arms; --he saw the remains of

libraries, which had been preserved in monasteries

and churches by a holy influence, which even the
Goth and Vandal respected, again opened to the
people; --he saw Rome rising from her ashes, the
fragments of statues found amidst the ruins of her
palaces and imperial villas, becoming the models for
the regeneration of art ; -- he saw magnificent tem

ples raised in this city, become the metropolis of a

new and Christian world, and ornamented with the

most brilliant master-pieces of the arts of design. --
"Now," the Genius said, "society has taken its
modern and permanent aspect. Consider for a

moment its relations to letters and to arms, as

contrasted with those of the ancient world." He

lphoaooplkdye,r"du,st,ahnelidbrGahereineissuaswwetsrhaeaidtn,, oiw"nTfthihlleeedpPlwarciitenhtobifnotoghkes. Prore"llssBseo!f

By the invention of Faust, the productions of
genius are, as it were, made imperishable, capable
of indefinite multiplication, and rendered an un
alienable heritage of the human mind. By this art,
apparently so humble, the progress of society is
secured, and man is spared the humiliation of wit
nessing again scenes like those which followed the
destruction of the Roman Empire. Now look to
the warriors of modern times ; you see the spear, the

javelin, and the cuirass are changed for the musket
and the light artillery. The German monk who
discovered gunpowder did not meanly affect the

368 THE LIFE OF

by becoming less personal ; mere brutal strength is
rendered of comparatively little avail ; all the re

sources of civilization are required to move a large

army ; wealth, ingenuity, and perseverance become
the principal elements of success ; civilized man is

rendered in consequence infinitely superior to the

savage, and gunpowder gives permanence to his

triumph, and secures the cultivated nations from
being ever again overrun by the inroads of millions

of barbarians."*

The Genius then directs his attention to scenes

in which are displayed the triumphs of modern

science ; such as the steam-engine, and the thousand

resources furnished by the chemical and mechanical

arts ; and she concludes by endeavouring to impress
upon him the conviction, " That the results of intel

lectual labour, or of scientific genius, are permanent,

and incapable of being lost. Monarchs change their

plans, governments their objects, a fleet or an army

effect their purpose and then pass away ; but a piece
of steel touched by the magnet preserves its cha

racter for ever, and secures to man the dominion of
Athe trackless ocean.
                                       new period of society may

* This is a question which Gibbon has very eloquently discussed

(" General  Ovbi.s)erva"tioCnasnnoonn  the Fall of the Roman Empire in the
West" vol.
                                       and fortifications now form an impreg

nable barrier against the Tartar horse ; and Europe is secure from

any future irruption of barbarians ; since, before they can conquer,

they must cease to be barbarous." What an extraordinary illus

tration does this principle find in the history of our possessions in

India, where, to speak in round numbers, thirty thousand Euro

peans keep no less than one hundred million of natives in sub

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           369

send armies from the shores of the Baltic to those of

the Euxine, and the empire of the followers of Ma

homet may be broken in pieces by a Northern peo

ple, and the dominion of the Britons in Asia may
share the fate of Tamerlane or Zengis-khan ; but the

steam-boat which ascends the Delaware, or the St.

Lawrence, will be continued to be used, and will

carry the civilization of an improved people into the

deserts of North America, and into the wilds of

Canada. In the common history of the world, as

compiled by authors in general, almost all the great
changes of nations are confounded with changes in

their dynasties, and events are usually referred either

to sovereigns, chiefs, heroes, or their armies, which

do, in fact, originate from entirely different causes,

either of an intellectual or moral nature."

Having instructed him in the history of man as

an inhabitant of the earth, the Genius proceeds to

reveal to him the mysteries of spiritual natures, in

which the author evidently shows his attachment to

the belief that our intellectual essence is destined

hereafter to enjoy a higher and better state of pla
netary existence, * drinking intellectual light from a

Ipurer source, and approaching nearer to the Infinite
and Divine mind.  shall not attempt to follow

him and his Genius to the verge of the solar system,

     Under the article ' Sensation,' in the Philosophical  "DIitctmioanyarbye, ,
we find Voltaire indulging in a similar speculation.

that in other globes the inhabitants possess sensations of which

we can form no idea. It is possible that the number of our senses

augments from globe to globe, and that an existence with innume
rable and perfect senses will be the final attainment of all being."

370 THE LIFE OF

witnessing in his career the inhabitants of planets
and comets. We may upon this occasion truly
apply to the author the words of Lucretius--

        " Processit longe flammantia mcenia mundi."
        " His vigorous and active mind was hurl'd

           Beyond the flaming limits of the world."--Creech.

In the former part of the dialogue, his poetical co

ruscations appeared only as brilliant sparks thrown
off by the rapidity of the machinery which he
worked for a useful end and for a definite purpose ;

his vivid imagination may now be compared to a
display of fire-works, which dazzle and confound
without enlightening the senses, and leave the spec

tator in still more profound darkness.

   His Second Dialogue, entitled " Discussions

connected with the Vision in the Colosseum," may

be considered as a commentary upon the views he

had unfolded ; and a more appropriate spot, per

haps, could not have been selected for a conversa

tion upon the progress of civilization, than the sum

mit of Vesuvius, from which,  to adopt the language
of Ambrosio, " We see not     only the power and

activity of man as existing at present, and of which

the highest example may be represented by the

steam-boat departing from Palermo, but we may

likewise view scenes which carry us into the very
bosom of antiquity, and as it were make us live

with the generations of past ages."

The author, who assumes throughout this dia

logue the name of Philalethes, after having been

"Iduly rallied by his friends on the subject of his
vision, thus expresses himself: --   will acknow

ledge that the vision in the Colosaeum is a fiction ;

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                            371

Ibut the most important parts of it really occurred to

me in sleep, particularly that in which seemed to

leave the earth and launch into the infinity of space,
under the guidance of a tutelary genius. And the

Iorigin and progress of civil society form likewise

parts of another dream which had many years
ago ; and it was in the reverie which happened

Iwhen you quitted me in the Colosa?um, that wove

I Iall these thoughts together, and gave them the form

in which narrated them to you. -- do not say that

they are strictly to be considered as an accurate re

Ipresentation of my waking thoughts ; for am not

quite convinced that dreams are always the repre
sentations of the state of the mind, modified by

organic diseases or by associations. There are cer

Itainly no absolutely new ideas produced in sleep ;

yet have had more than one instance, in the course

of my life, of most extraordinary combinations occur

ring in this state, which have had considerable in

fluence on my feelings, my imagination, and my

health."

Philalethes now relates a fact to which his pre

ceding observation more immediately referred; he
anticipates unbelief, -- but he declares that he men

          but a simple
          quarter of a
Ition"sAnlmotohsint ga
                        fact.    ago,  contracted
                        century

Ithat terrible form of typus fever known by the name

of jail fever, -- may say, not from any imprudence
of my own, but whilst engaged in putting in execu
tion a plan for ventilating one of the great prisons
of the metropolis.* My illness was severe and dan

* See page 287, vol. i. for an account of this event.
                                 2B2

372 THE LIFE OF

gerous ; as long as the fever continued, my dreams

and deliriums were most painful and oppressive;

but when weakness consequent to exhaustion came
on, and when the probability of death seemed to my

Iphysicians greater than that of life, there was an
entire change in all my ideal combinations.         re

mained in an apparently senseless or lethargic state,

but, in fact, my mind was peculiarly active ; there

Iwas always before me the form of a beautiful

woman, with whom was engaged in the most in

teresting and intellectual conversation."

Ambrosio and Onuphrio very naturally suggest

that this could have been no other than the image
of some favourite maiden which had haunted his

Iimagination; but Philalethes rejects               w" ithwiinlldingonta,t"iohne
seuxcchlaiamns,ex"palallnoawtioynouof  the vision.  with ridicule on
                                       to treat me

this point, till you have heard the second part of

Imy tale. Ten years after had recovered from the
Ifever, and when had almost lost the recollection of

the vision, it was recalled to my memory by a very

blooming and graceful maiden fourteen or fifteen
Iyears old, that accidentally met during my travels
Iin Illyria; but
                  cannot say that the impression

made upon my mind by this female was very strong.
Now comes the extraordinary part of the narrative :

Iten years after, -- twenty years after my first illness,

at a time when was exceedingly weak from a

severe and dangerous malady, which for many years

threatened my life, and when my mind was almost

Iin a desponding state, being in a course of travels

ordered by my medical advisers, again met the

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.               373

I Ifemale ; and to her kindness and care, believe,

owe what remains to me of existence. My despon

dency gradually disappeared, and though my health
still continued weak, life began to possess charms

Ifor me which had thought were for ever gone ;
Iand could not help identifying the living angel

with the vision which appeared as my guardian
genius during the illness of my youth."

   The reader will probably agree with Onuphrio, in

seeing in this history nothing beyond the influence

of an imagination excited by disease.
   The discourse now turns upon that part of the

vision in the Colosaeum in which was exhibited the

early state of man, after his first creation, and which

Ambrosio considers as not only incompatible with

revelation, but likewise with reason and every thing

that we know respecting the history or traditions of

Ithe early nations of antiquity.
      shall merely state the objection which Ambrosio
Ioffers.
          must then refer the reader to the work

itself for an account  of the discussion  it provoked.
                       consider man, in
   " Ambrosio.-- You                      his early state,

a savage like those who now inhabit New Holland,

or New Zealand, acquiring, by the little use that

Ithey make of a feeble reason, the power of support

ing and extending life. Now, contend that, if

man had been so created, he must inevitably have

been destroyed by the elements, or devoured by
savage beasts, so infinitely his superiors in physical

force."

   During the discussion, an opinion is advanced by

IAmbrosio, so singular, that must be allowed to

374 THE LIFE OF

parts of our religion as effected by changes in the
sensations or ideas of the human mind, and not by
physical changes in the order of nature ! To Infinite
Wisdom and Power, a change in the intellectual
state of the human being may be the result of a
momentary will, and the mere act of faith may
produce the change. How great the powers of
imagination are, even in ordinary life, is shown by

many striking facts, and nothing seems impossible
to this imagination when acted upon by Divine

influence."

   This is surely a most extraordinary line of argu
ment for the apologist of the Christian faith, and of
the miracles by which it is supported.

   In the Third Dialogue, called the Unknown,

the author and his friends, Ambrosio and Onuphrio,
make an excursion to the remains of the temples of
Paestum. " Were my existence to be prolonged

"Ithrough ten centuries," exclaims the author,

I Ithink could never forget the pleasure received

on that delicious spot." In contemplating beautiful
scenery, much of its interest depends upon the feel
ings and associations of the moment ; and the author

was upon this occasion evidently in that poetical
frame of mind which sheds a magic light over every

landscape, and converts the most ordinary objects

into emblems of morality : in the admixture of the

olive and the cypress tree, he saw a connection, to

memorialize, as it were, how near each other are life
and death, joy and sorrow ; while the music of the
birds, and, above all, the cooing of the turtle-doves,
by overpowering the murmuring of the waves and

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  375

that, in the strife of nature, the voice of love is

predominant.

   With their hearts touched by the scene they had

witnessed, the travellers descended to the ruins, and

began to examine those wonderful remains which
have outlived even the name of the people by whom

they were raised. While engaged in measuring the
Doric columns in the interior of the Temple of

Neptune, a stranger, remarkable both in dress

and appearance, was observed to be writing in a
memorandum book ; the author immediately ad
dresses him, and becoming mutually pleased with
each other, they enter into a conversation of high

scientific interest.

   The sentiments delivered by the " Unknown," for

by this title is the philosopher designated, notwith

standing their dramatic dress, are evidently to be
received as the bequest of the latest scientific opi

nions of Sir H. Davy upon several important sub

jects, and must consequently command our respect

and consideration.

   To a question relative to the nature of the masses
of travertine, of which the ruins consisted, the Un

known replied, that they were certainly produced
by deposition from water; and he rather believed,
that a lake in the immediate neighbourhood of the
city furnished the quarry. The party are then

described as visiting this spot.
    " There was something peculiarly melancholy in

the character of this water ; all the herbs around it
were grey, as if incrusted with marble ; a few buf

faloes were slaking their thirst in it, which ran

376 THE LIFE OF

Iinto a rocky excavation or quarry at the end of the

lake. ' There,' said the stranger, ' is what believe

to be the source of those large and durable stones

which you see in the plain before you. This water

rapidly deposits calcareous matter, and even, if you

throw a stick into it, a few hours is sufficient to give

it a coating of this substance. Whichever way you

turn your eyes, you see masses of this recently pro

duced marble, the consequence of the overflowing

of the lake during the winter floods.'  
         *  
  I" This water is like many, may say most, of the

sources which rise at the foot of the Apennines ; it

holds carbonic acid in solution, which has dissolved

a portion of the calcareous matter of the rock through

which it has passed :-- this carbonic acid is dissipated

in the atmosphere, and the marble, slowly thrown

down, assumes a crystalline form, and produces co

herent stones. The lake before us is not particu

Ilarly rich in the quantity of calcareous matter, for,

as have found by experience, a pint of it does not

afford more than five or six grains ; but the quantity

of fluid and the length of time are sufficient to ac

count for the immense quantities of tufa and rock

which, in the course of ages, have accumulated in

this situation.

  I" It can, think, be scarcely doubted that there

is a source of volcanic fire at no great distance from
the surface, in the whole of southern Italy; and,
this fire acting upon the calcareous rocks of which

the Apennines are composed, must constantly detach

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                           377

of the springs, deposited from the waters of the

Iatmosphere, must give them their impregnation, and
enable them to dissolve calcareous matter.  need

not dwell upon Mtna, Vesuvius, or the Lipari

Islands, to prove that volcanic fires are still in ex

istence ; and there can be no doubt that, in earlier

periods, almost the whole of Italy was ravaged by

Ithem ; even Rome itself, the eternal city, rests upon

the craters of extinct volcanoes ; and imagine that

the traditional and fabulous record of the destruction

made by the conflagration of Phaeton, in the chariot

of the Sun, and his falling into the Po, had reference

to a great and tremendous igneous volcanic eruption

which extended over Italy, and ceased only near the
Po, at the foot of the Alps. Be this as it may, the

sources of carbonic acid are numerous, not merely

in the Neapolitan but likewise in the Roman and

Tuscan states. The most magnificent waterfall in

Europe, that of the Velino near Terni, is partly fed

by a stream containing calcareous matter dissolved

by carbonic acid, and it deposits marble, which crys

tallizes even in the midst of its thundering descent

and foam, in the bed in which it falls.
   " There is a lake in Latium, a few yards above

the Lacus Albula, where the ancient Romans erect

ed their baths, which sends down a considerable

stream of tepid water to the larger lake ; but this

water is less strongly impregnated with carbonic

acid ; the largest lake is actually a saturated solu

tion of this gas, which escapes from it in such quan
tities in some parts of its surface, that it has the ap
pearance of being actually in ebullition. Its tem

378 THE LIFE OF

warmest parts, above 80 degrees of Fahrenheit, and
as it appears to be pretty constant, it must be sup
plied with heat from a subterraneous source, being

nearly twenty degrees above the mean temperature
of the atmosphere. Kircher has detailed, in his
Mundus Subterraneus, various wonders respecting
this lake, most of which are unfounded ; such as,

that it is unfathomable, -- that it has at the bottom
the heat of boiling water, and that floating islands

rise from the gulf which emits it. It must cer

tainly be very difficult, or even impossible, to fa
thom a source which rises with so much violence

from a subterraneous excavation ; and at a time

when chemistry had made small progress, it was
easy to mistake the disengagement of carbonic acid
for an actual ebullition. The floating islands are
real ; but neither the Jesuit, nor any of the writers

who have since described this lake, had a correct

idea of their origin, which is exceedingly curious.
The high temperature of this water, and the quan
tity of carbonic acid that it contains, render it pe
culiarly fitted to afford a pabulum or nourishment
to vegetable life ; the banks of travertine are every
where covered with reeds, lichens, conferva?, and va

rious kinds of aquatic vegetables ; and at the same
time that the process of vegetable life is going on,
the crystallizations of the calcareous matter, which
is every where deposited in consequence of the
escape of carbonic acid, likewise proceed, giving a
constant milkiness to what from its tint would other

wise be a blue fluid. So rapid is the vegetation,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  379

mixed with deposited travertine, are constantly de
tached by the current of water from the bank, and

float down the stream, which being a considerable
river, is never without many of these small islands

on its surface ; they are sometimes only a few
inches in size, and composed merely of dark green
confervae, or purple or yellow lichens ; but they are
sometimes even of some feet in diameter, and con

tain seeds and various species of common water-

Iplants, which are usually more or less incrusted with

marble. There is, believe, no place in the world
where there is a more striking example of the oppo
sition or contrast of the laws of animate and inani

mate nature, of the forces of inorganic chemical
affinity and those of the powers of life. Vegetables,

in such a temperature, and every where surrounded
by food, are produced with a wonderful rapidity ;
but the crystallizations are formed with equal quick

ness, and they are no sooner produced than they are

destroyed together. The quantity of vegetable
matter and its heat make it the resort of an infinite

variety of insect tribes ; and, even in the coldest
days in winter, numbers of flies may be observed on
the vegetables surrounding its banks or on its float
ing islands, and a quantity of their larvae may be
seen there, sometimes incrusted and entirely destroy

*****ed by calcareous matter, which is likewise often the

fate of the insects themselves, as well as of various

species of shell-fish that are found amongst the vege
tables which grow and are destroyed in the traver

tine on its banks.

380 THE LIFE OF

days, in studying the phenomena of this wonderful
lake ; it has brought many trains of thought into

Imy mind connected with the early changes of our
globe, and  have sometimes reasoned from the

forms of plants and animals preserved in marble

in this warm source, to the grander depositions in

the secondary rocks, where the zoophytes or coral

insects have worked upon a grand scale, and where

*****palms and vegetables now unknown are preserved

with the remains of crocodiles, turtles, and gigantic
extinct animals of the Sauri genus, and which ap
pear to have belonged to a period when the whole

globe possessed a much higher temperature.
" Then, from all we know, this lake, except in

some change in its dimensions, continues nearly in

Ithe same state in which it was described seventeen

hundred years ago by Pliny, and have no doubt
contains the same kinds of floating islands, the same

Iplants, and the same insects. During the fifteen
years that have known  it,
                          ; it

                                          it
                       has appeared pre

cisely identical in these respects and yet has the
character of an accidental phenomenon depending

upon subterraneous fire. How marvellous then are

those laws by which even the humblest types of

organic existence are preserved, though born amidst
the sources of their destruction, and by which
species of immortality given to generations, float
ing, as were, like evanescent bubbles on stream
it

         !"

                           is
                                                                    a

                                                                                  a
raised from the deepest caverns of the earth, and

instantly losing what may be called its spirit in the

atmosphere

                              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  381

of Travertine, the conversation naturally turned to

IGeology ; and shall here again be compelled to

give another copious extract, in order to show what

Ifwere the latest opinions of Sir H. Davy upon this
subject.  any doubt could exist as to the views

here given being those entertained by the author,

it is at once removed by his letter to Mr. Poole, in

It"whiccho,natalliunsdinthge  to the   work under review, he says,
                              essence
" On the geological                    of my philosophical opinions?
                                        scheme of the early history
of the globe, there are only analogies to guide us,

Iwhich different minds may apply and interpret in

different ways ; but will not trifle with a long pre

liminary discourse. Astronomical deductions and

actual measures by triangulation prove that the

globe is an oblate spheroid flattened at the poles ;

and this form, we know, by strict mathematical de

monstrations, is precisely the one which a fluid body

revolving round its axis and become solid at its

Isurface by the slow dissipation of its heat or other
causes, would assume.                  suppose, therefore, that

the globe, in the first state in which the imagina

tion can venture to consider it, was a fluid mass

with an immense atmosphere, revolving in space

round the sun, and that by its cooling, a portion of

its atmosphere was condensed in water which occu

pied a part of the surface. In this state, no forms

of life, such as now belong to our system, could

have inhabited it ; and I suppose the crystalline
rocks, or, as they are called by geologists, the pri

mary rocks, which contain no vestiges of a former
order of things, were the results of the first consoli

382 THE LIFE OF

   ;

                                                 a

                                                               it,
the water which more or less had covered                            con

tracted depositions took place, shell-fish, and coral

insects of the first creation began their labours, and

islands appeared in the midst of the ocean, raised

from the deep by the productive energies of mil
lions of zoophytes. These islands became covered

with vegetables fitted to bear high temperature,

such as palms, and various species of plants similar
to those which now exist in the hottest part of the
world. And the submarine rocks or shores of these

new formations of land became covered with aqua

tic vegetables, on which various species of shell-fish
and common fishes found their nourishment. The

fluids of the globe in cooling deposited a large
quantity of the materials they held in solution, and

these deposits agglutinating together the sand, the

immense masses of coral rocks, and some of the

remains of the shells and fishes found round the

shores of the primitive lands, produced the first

ord"eAr softhseecotnedmapryerartoucrkes. of the globe became lower,
species of the oviparous reptiles were created to
inhabit it; and the turtle, crocodile, and various

gigantic animals of the Sauri kind, seem to have

haunted the bays and waters of the primitive lands.
But in this state of things there was no order of
events similar to the present, -- the crust of the
globe was exceedingly slender, and the source of

fire small distance from the surface. In conse
a

quence of contraction in one part of the mass, cavi
ties were opened, which caused the entrance of

water, and immense volcanic explosions took place,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  383

producing mountains and causing new and exten

sive depositions from the primitive ocean. Changes
of this kind must have been extremely frequent in
the early epochas of nature ; and the only living
forms of which the remains are found in the strata

that are the monuments of these changes, are those
of plants, fishes, birds, and oviparous reptiles, which
seem most fitted to exist in such a war of the

elements.

   " When these revolutions became less frequent,
and the globe became still more cooled, and the ine
qualities of its temperature preserved by the moun
tain chains, more perfect animals became its inhabi
tants, many of which, such as the mammoth, mega-
lonix, megatherium, and gigantic hyena, are now

extinct. At this period, the temperature of the

ocean seems to have been not much higher than it

is at present, and the changes produced by occa
sional eruptions of it have left no consolidated rocks.

Yet one of these eruptions appears to have been of

great extent and of some duration, and seems to
have been the cause of those immense quantities of

water-worn stones, gravel, and sand, which are usu

ally called diluvian remains ; -- and it is probable
that this effect was connected with the elevation of

a new continent in the southern hemisphere by vol
canic fire. When the system of things became so

permanent, that the tremendous revolutions depend
ing upon the destruction of the equilibrium be

tween the heating and cooling agencies were no
longer to be dreaded, the creation of man took
place; and since that period there has been little

384 THE LIFE OF

Volcanoes sometimes occasion the rise of new is
lands, portions of the old continents are constantly
washed by rivers into the sea, but these changes are
too insignificant to affect the destinies of man, or

Ithe nature of the physical circumstances of things.

On the hypothesis that have adopted, however, it

*****must be remembered, that the present surface of the

globe is merely a thin crust surrounding a nucleus
of fluid ignited matter; and consequently, we can
hardly be considered as actually safe from the dan
ger of a catastrophe by fire

  I I" beg you to consider the views have been de

veloping as merely hypothetical, one of the many
resting-places that may be taken by the imagination
in considering this subject. There are, however,
distinct facts in favour of the idea, that the interior
of the globe has a higher temperature than the sur
face ; the heat increasing in mines the deeper we pe
netrate, and the number of warm sources which rise

from great depths, in almost all countries, are cer
tainly favourable to the idea. The opinion, that

Ivolcanoes are owing to this general and simple cause,

is, think, likewise more agreeable to the analogies
of things, than to suppose them dependent upon
partial chemical changes, such as the action of air
and water upon the combustible bases of the earths
and alkalies, though it is extremely probable that
these substances may exist beneath the surface, and
may occasion some results of volcanic fire ; --and on

Ithis subject my notion may perhaps be the more

trusted, as for a long while thought volcanic erup

      *****SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            385

Idiscovered metals of the earths and alkalies, and

made many and some dangerous experiments in the
hope of confirming this notion, but in vain.

  I" have no objection to the ' refined Plutonic;

view,' (of Professor Playfair and Sir James Hall,) asis,
capable of explaining many existing phenomena ;

Iindeed, you must be aware that have myself had
Irecourse to it. What contend against its appli

cation to explain the formations of the secondary
rocks, which think clearly belong to an order of
facts not at all embraced by it. In the Plutonic
      is

            is I
system, there one simple and constant order as

sumed, which may be supposed eternal. The sur

face  constantly imagined to be disintegrated,

destroyed, degraded, and washed into the bosom of

the ocean by water, and as constantly consolidated,

elevated, and regenerated by fire and the ruins of

the old form the foundations of the new world. It

    supposed that there are always the same typesis

both of dead and living matter, --that the remains of

rocks, of vegetables, and animals of one age are
found imbedded in rocks raised from the bottom of
the ocean in another. Now, to support this view,

not only the remains of living beings which at pre

sent people the globe, might be expected to be found
in the oldest secondary strata, but even those of the

art of man, the most powerful and populous of its

inhabitants, which well known not to be the case.
                  is

On the contrary, each stratum of the secondary
rocks contains remains of peculiar and mostly now
unknown species of vegetables and animals. In

those strata which are deepest, and which must con-

386 THE LIFE OF

sequently be supposed to be the earliest deposited,
forms even of vegetable life are rare ; shells and ve
getable remains are found in the next order; the
bones of fishes and oviparous reptiles exist in the

following class ; the remains of birds, with those of

the same genera mentioned before, in the next
order ; those of quadrupeds of extinct species in a
still more recent class ; and it is only in the loose
and slightly consolidated strata of gravel and sand,
and which are usually called diluvian formations,
that the remains of animals, such as now people the
globe, are found, with others belonging to extinct
species. But in none of these formations, whether
called secondary, tertial, or diluvial, have the re

Imains of man, or any of his works, been discovered.

It is, think, impossible to consider the organic

remains found in any of the earlier secondary strata,
the lias-limestone and its congenerous formations,
for instance, without being convinced, that the
beings whose organs they formed belonged to an
order of things entirely different from the present.

Gigantic vegetables, more nearly allied to the palms
of the equatorial countries than to any other plants,

can only be imagined to have lived in a very high

temperature ; and the immense reptiles, the Megalo-
sauri, with paddles instead of legs, and clothed in
mail, in size equal, or even superior to the whale ;

and the great amphibia Plethiosauri, with bodies
like turtles, but furnished with necks longer than

their bodies, probably to enable them to feed on ve
getables growing in the shallows of the primitive
ocean, seem to show a state in which low lands, or

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  387

 and when there were no great mountain chains to
 produce inequalities of temperature, tempests, or
 storms. Were the surface of the earth now to be

 carried down into the depths of the ocean, or were
 some great revolution of the waters to cover the
 existing land, and it was again to be elevated by
 fire, covered with consolidated depositions of sand
or mud, how entirely different would it be in its
 characters from any of the secondary strata! Its

great features would undoubtedly be the works of
 man : hewn stones, and statues of bronze and mar

ble, and tools of iron, and human remains, would be

more common than those of animals, on the greatest
part of the surface ; the columns of Paestum, or of
Agrigentum, or the immense iron bridges of the

Thames, would offer a striking contrast to the bones

of the crocodiles, or Sauri, in the older rocks, or even

to those of the mammoth, or Elephas primogenius,
in the diluvial strata. And whoever dwells upon

this subject must be convinced, that the present
order of things, and the comparatively recent ex
istence of man, as the master of the globe, is as cer

tain as the destruction of a former and a different
order, and the extinction of a number of living

forms, which have now no types in being, and which
have left their remains wonderful monuments of

the revolutions of nature."

   The Fourth Dialogue, to which is given the

title of " The Proteus, or Immortality," is of a more

desultory nature than those which precede it. It

contains many beautiful descriptions of scenery in
the Alpine country of Austria; furnishes an in

2c 2

388 THE LIFE OF

Proteus Anguinus, which is found only in the lime
stone caverns of Carniola, and concludes with re
flections upon the indestructibility of the sentient

principle.
   The author's companion, during the tour he de
scribes, is a scientific friend, whom he calls Eubathes.
The dialogue opens with a passage of considerable
pathos and eloquence : the author having been re
called to England by a melancholy event, the death
of a very near and dear relation, describes his feel

ings on entering London.

  I" In my youth, and through the prime of man

hood, never entered London without feelings of

pleasure and hope. It was to me as the grand thea

tre of intellectual activity, the field of every species
Iof enterprise and exertion, the metropolis of the

world of business, thought, and action. There,
was sure to find the friends and companions of my

youth,   to hear the voice of encouragement     and
praise.
offered  There, society of the most refined    kind
         daily its banquets to the mind, with
                                               such

variety that satiety had no place in them, and new

objects of interest and ambition were constantly
exciting attention either in politics, literature, or

science.

  I" now entered this great city in a very different

tone of mind -- one of settled melancholy, not merely
produced by the mournful event which recalled me
to my country, but owing likewise to an entire
change in the condition of my physical, moral, and

Iintellectual being. My health was gone, my am

bition was satisfied ; was no longer excited by the

         SiR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   389

was in the grave ; and to take a metaphor, derived

from the change produced by time in the juice of

the grape, my cup of life was no longer sparkling,
sweet, and effervescent ; it had lost its sweetness

without losing its power, and it had become bitter."

   There is perhaps not a more splendid passage to
be found in the work ; and it is scarcely inferior to

Dr. Johnson's memorable conclusion to the preface

of his Dictionary.
  I"
After
he," and
         passing    a few months  in England," says
         enjoying    (as much as    could enjoy any

thing) the society of the few friends who still re

Imained alive, the desire of travel again seized me.
   had preserved amidst the wreck of time, one
feeling strong and unbroken --the love of natural

scenery ; and this, in advanced life, formed a prin
cipal motive for my plans of conduct and action."

The fall of the Traun, about ten miles below

Gmiinden, was one of his favourite haunts ; and he

describes an accident of the most awful description
which befell him at this place. While amusing

himself on the water by a rapid species of locomo

tion, in a boat so secured by a rope as to allow only

of a limited range, the tackle gave way, and he was
rapidly precipitated down the cataract. He remain
ed for some time after his rescue in a state of insen

sibility, and on recovering found himself attended
by his mysterious friend the " Unknown," who had

so charmed him in his excursion to Paestum.

With this stranger, he proceeded on his tour ;

and he again becomes the medium through which

much philosophical information is conveyed to the

reader.

390 THE LIFE OF

They visit together the grotto of the Maddalena

at Adelsberg, and he gives us the conversation that

Iftoo"kPhplialacleetihnest.h--atextraordinary cavern.  dark  masses
                                  the awful chasms of

of rock surrounding us appear like the work of

demons, who might be imagined to have risen from

the centre of the earth, the beautiful works of nature

above our heads may be compared to a scenic repre

sentation of a temple or banquet-hall for fairies or

Agen"iiT, hseuchUnaksnothwons.e--fablepdoient  the Arabian romances.
                                                might certainly place

here the palace of the king of the Gnomes, and

might find marks of his creative power in the small

Ilake close by, on which the flame of the torch is

now falling; for, there it is that expect to find

the extraordinary animals which have been so long

Ithe objects of my attention.
   " Eubathes. -- see three or four creatures, like

slender fish, moving on the mud below the water.

  I" The Unknown. -- see them ; they are the Pro-
Itei, -- now have them in my fishing-net, and now

they are safe in the pitcher of water. At first view,

you might suppose this animal to be a lizard, but it

has the motions of a fish. Its head, and the lower

part of its body and its tail, bear a strong resem
blance to those of the eel ; but it has no fins ; and

its curious bronchial organs are not like the gills of
fishes ; they form a singular vascular structure, as

you see, almost like a crest, round the throat, which

may be removed without occasioning the death of

the animal, who is likewise furnished with lungs.
With this double apparatus for supplying air to the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                             391

of the water. Its fore-feet resemble hands, but

they have only three claws or fingers, are too feeble
to be of use in grasping, or supporting the weight
of the animal ; the hinder feet have only two claws
or toes, and in larger specimens are found so imper

fect as to be almost obliterated. It has small points
in place of eyes, as if to preserve the analogy of

nature. Its nasal organs appear large ; and it is
abundantly furnished with teeth, from which it
may be concluded that it is an animal of prey; yet

in its confined state it has never been known to

eat, and it has been kept alive for many years
by occasionally changing the water in which it is

placed.

   " Eubathes. -- Is this the only place in Carniola

where these animals are found ?
   " The Unknown. -- They were first discovered here

by the late Baron Zois ; but they have since been
found, though rarely, at Sittich, about thirty miles

Idistant, thrown up by water from a subterraneous

cavity; and have lately heard it reported that

Isome individuals of the same species have been re
cognised in the calcareous strata in Sicily.  think

it cannot be doubted, that their natural residence is

an extensive deep subterranean lake, from which in

great floods they sometimes are forced through the
crevices of the rocks into this place where they are

found ; and it does not appear to me impossible,

when the peculiar nature of the country in which

we are is considered, that the same great cavity may

furnish the individuals which have been found at

Adelsberg and at Sittich.

392 THE LIFE OF

   " This adds one more instance to the number
already known of the wonderful manner in which
life is produced and perpetuated in every part of
our globe, even in places which seem the least suit
ed to organized existence. And the same infinite
power and wisdom which has fitted the camel and
the ostrich for the deserts of Africa, the swallow
that secretes its own nest for the caves of Java, the

whale for the Polar seas, and the morse and white

bear for the Arctic ice, has given the Proteus to the
deep and dark subterraneous lakes of Illyria, -- an
animal to whom the presence of light is not essen
tial, and who can live indifferently in air and in
water, on the surface of the rock, or in the depths
of the mud."

I Much interesting physiological discussion follows.
   shall, however, merely notice the opinion deliver

Ied by the " Unknown," on the subject of respira

tion, and which think shows that, at the conclu
sion of his career, Davy entertained the same no
tions, with regard to the communication of some

ethereal principle to the blood, as he maintained in
the earlier part of his life.* -- " The obvious chemi
cal alteration of the air is sufficiently simple in this
process ; a certain quantity of carbon only is added
to it, and it receives an addition of heat or vapour ;
the volumes of elastic fluid inspired and expired
(making allowance for change of temperature,) are

the same, and if ponderable agents only were to be
regarded, it would appear as if the only use of re

spiration were to free the blood from a certain quan

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  393

this is only a secondary object, and that the change
produced by respiration upon the blood is of a much

more important kind. Oxygen, in its elastic state,

has properties which are very characteristic ; it gives

out light by compression, which is not certainly
known to be the case with any other elastic fluid

except those which oxygen has entered without un

dergoing combustion ; and from the fire it produces

in certain processes, and from the manner in which
it is separated by positive electricity in the gaseous
state from its combinations, it is not easy to avoid

the supposition, that it contains, besides its ponder

able elements, some very subtile matter which is
capable of assuming the form of heat and light.

My idea is, that the common air inspired enters into

the venous blood entire, in a state of dissolution,

carrying with it its subtile or ethereal part, which
in ordinary cases of chemical change is given off ;

that it expels from the blood carbonic acid gas and
azote ; and that, in the course of the circulation,

its ethereal part and its ponderable part undergo

changes which belong to laws that cannot be consi

dered as chemical, -- the ethereal part probably pro

ducing animal heat and other effects, and the pon
derable part contributing to form carbonic acid and
other products. The arterial blood is necessary to
all the functions of life, and it is no less connected

with the irritability of the muscles and the sensibi
lity of the nerves than with the performance of all

the secretions."  Dialogue  is entitled " The Che

  The Fifth

mist." Its object is to demonstrate the importance

394 THE LIFE OF

disparage its utility, and to mark its weaker points.
These of course are answered, the sceptic becomes a

true believer, and the intellectual gladiators separate

Imu"tuEaulblyathseast.is--fied  with each other.       you  in  attack
                                feel disposed to join

ing this favourite study of our friend, but merely to

provoke him to defend it, in order to call forth his

Iskill and awaken his eloquence.

   " The Unknown. -- have no objection. Let there

be a fair discussion : remember, we fight only with
foils, and the point of mine shall be covered with

velvet."

After having enumerated the scientific attain

ments necessary to constitute the chemist, and de

scribed the apparatus essential for understanding

what has been already done in the science, he pro

ceeds to define the intellectual qualities which he

considers necessary for discovery, or for the advance

ment of the science. Amongst them, patience, in

dustry, and neatness in manipulation, and accuracy

and minuteness in observing and registering the
Aphenomena which occur, are essential.
                                                                steady

hand and a quick eye are most useful auxiliaries ;

but there have been very few great chemists who

have preserved these advantages through life; for
the business of the laboratory is often a service of

danger, and the elements, like the refractory spirits

of romance, though the obedient slaves of the magi

cian, yet sometimes escape the influence of his talis

man, and endanger his person. Both the hands and
eyes of others, however, may be sometimes advan
tageously made use of. By often repeating a process

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                             395

operations or imperfect views are annihilated ; and,

provided the assistant has no preconceived notions
of his own, and is ignorant of the object of his

employer in making the experiment, his simple and
bare detail of facts will often be the best foundation

for an opinion. With respect to the higher qualities
of intellect necessary for understanding and develop

ing the general laws of the science, the same talents,

I believe, are required as for making advancement
Iin every other department of human knowledge ;

need not be very minute. The imagination must
be active and brilliant in seeking analogies ; yet en
tirely under the influence of the judgment in apply
ing them. The memory must be extensive and

profound ; rather, however, calling up general views

*****of things than minute trains of thought ;--the mind

must not be like an Encyclopedia, -- a burthen of
knowledge, but rather a critical Dictionary, which

abounds in generalities, and points out where more

minute information may be obtained.
   " In announcing even the greatest and most im
portant discoveries, the true philosopher will com
municate his details with modesty and reserve ; he
will rather be a useful servant of the public, bring
ing forth a light from under his cloak when it is

needed in darkness, than a charlatan exhibiting fire

works, and having a trumpeter to announce their

magnificence.                                  am

  I I" see you are smiling, and think what    will
Isaying in bad taste ; yet, notwithstanding,

provoke your smiles still farther, by saying a word

396 THE LIFE OF

be humble-minded, you will readily allow, and a

diligent searcher after truth, and neither diverted

from this great object by the love of transient glory

or temporary popularity, looking rather to the opi
nion of ages than to that of a day, and seeking to

be remembered and named rather in the epochas of
historians than in the columns of newspaper writers
or journalists. He should resemble the modern

geometricians in the greatness of his views and the

Iprofoundness of his researches, and the ancient al
chemists in industry and piety.  do not mean that

he should affix written prayers and inscriptions* of

recommendations of his processes to Providence, as
was the custom of Peter Wolfe, who was alive in

my early days ; but his mind should always be

awake to devotional feelings ; and in contemplating
the variety and the beauty of the external world, and

developing its scientific wonders, he will always
refer to that Infinite Wisdom, through whose bene

ficence he is permitted to enjoy knowledge ; and, in

becoming wiser, he will become better, -- he will rise

at once in the scale of intellectual and moral exist

ence, his increased sagacity will be subservient to a

more exalted faith, and in proportion as the veil

becomes thinner through which he sees the causes of

things, he will admire more the brightness of the

divine light by which they are rendered visible."

   * In illustration of the pious custom here alluded to by Sir H.
Davy, it may be observed, that the vessels of the alchemists very
commonly bore some emblem ; such, for instance, as that of the

cross; and from which, indeed, the word crucible derived its

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.     397

"  The    Sixth and last        Dialogue, entitled

   Pola,  or Time," presents a  series of reflections, to

which a view of the decaying amphitheatre at Pola,

an ancient town in the peninsula of Istria, is repre

sented as having given origin. On former occa

sions, the inspection of the mouldering works of

past ages called up trains of thought rather of a

moral than of a physical character; in the present

dialogue, the effects of time are considered in their

relations to the mechanical and chemical laws by

which material forms are destroyed, or rather

changed, --for the author has shown by a number

of beautiful examples, that without decay there can

be no reproduction, and that the principle of change

is a principle of life.

   Having considered the influence of gravitation,

the chemical and mechanical agencies of water, air,

and electricity, and the energies of organized beings,

in producing those diversified phenomena which, in

our metaphysical abstractions, we universally refer

to Time, he proceeds to enquire how far art can
Acounteract their
                                     great philosopher,
he observes, has                can in no other way
          soapiedr,a"tioMn.an

command Nature but in obeying her laws :" it is

evident that, by the application of some of those

principles which she herself employs, we may for
a while arrest the progress of changes which are

ulti"mYaette,lywhineenvitaallblies. done that can be done in the

work of conservation, it is only producing a differ

ence in the degree of duration. It is evident that

none of the works of a mortal can be eternal, as

398  THE LIFE* OF

 be infinite. The operations of Nature, when slow,
 are no less sure ; however man may, for a time,
 usurp dominion over her, she is certain of recovering
 her empire. He converts her rocks, her stones, her
 trees, into forms of palaces, houses, and ships ; he
 employs the metals found in the bosom of the
 earth, as instruments of power, and the sands and

 clays which constitute its surface, as ornaments and
resources of luxury ; he imprisons air by water, and
 tortures water by fire to change, or modify, or de
 stroy the natural forms of things. But in some
lustrums his works begin to change, and in a few
centuries they decay and are in ruins; and his

mighty temples, framed as it were for immortal and
divine purposes, and his bridges formed of granite

and ribbed with iron, and his walls for defence, and

the splendid monuments by which he has endea

voured to give eternity even to his perishable re

mains, are gradually destroyed ; and these struc
tures, which have resisted the waves of the ocean,
the tempests of the sky, and the stroke of the light

ning, shall yield to the operation of the dews of
heaven, --of frost, rain, vapour, and imperceptible

atmospheric influences ; and as the worm devours
the lineaments of his mortal beauty, so the lichens

and the moss and the most insignificant plants shall

feed upon his columns and his pyramids, and the

most humble and insignificant insect shall under
mine and sap the foundations of his colossal works,

and make their habitations amongst the ruins of
his palaces and the falling seats of his earthly glory."

   On no occasion can such a subject be presented to

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  399

and wonder; but the circumstances under which

these reflections are presented to us, in the last days

of our philosopher, impress upon them an almost
oracular solemnity. When we remember that while
the mind of the philosopher was thus engaged in
identifying the processes of decay with those of
renovation in the system of nature, his body was
palsied, and the current of his life fast ebbing, we

cannot but admire that active intelligence which

sparkled with such undiminished lustre amidst the
wreck of its earthly tenement.

   In the extracts which have been introduced from

Ithis last work, trust the pledge that was given in

the earlier part of these memoirs, has been redeemed

by showing that a powerful imagination is not
necessarily incompatible with a sound judgment,
that the flowers of fancy are not always blighted
by the cold realities of science, but that the poet
and philosopher may, under the auspices of a happy
genius, mutually assist each other in expounding

the mysteries of nature. It cannot be denied, as a

general aphorism, that the tree which expands its
force in flowers is generally deficient in fruit ; but
the mind of Davy, to borrow one of his own meta
phors, may be likened to those fabled of the Hespe-

rides, which produced at once buds, leaves, blossoms,

and fruits.

   The happy effects resulting from this rare and
nicely adjusted combination of talents, offer them
selves as interesting subjects of biographical con

templation, and they can be studied only with suc

400 THE LIFE OF

upon the vivacity and compass of his imagination
cannot be doubted, and such an opinion was well
expressed by Mr. Davies Gilbert, in his late address
to the Society : --" The poetic bent of Davy's mind

Iseems never to have left him. To that circumstance
  would ascribe the distinguishing features in his
character and in his discoveries : -- a vivid imagina
tion sketching out new tracks in regions unex
plored, for the judgment to select those leading to
the recesses of abstract truth."

  I have always thought that the mind of the late

Dr. Clarke, the Mineralogical Professor of Cam
bridge, was little less imaginative than that of Davy ;
but it was deficient in judgment, and therefore often

conducted him to error instead of to truth. Dr.

Black was not deficient in imagination, and cer
tainly not in judgment; but there was a constitu

tional apathy, arising probably from ill health, which

damped his noblest efforts. *

    * In addition to the anecdote already related of him, the follow

ing may serve to give a still greater force to this opinion. Soon
after the appearance of Mr. Cavendish's paper on hydrogen gas, in
which he made an approximation to the specific gravity of that
body, showing that it was at least ten times lighter than common
air, Dr. Black invited a party of his friends to supper, informing
them that he had a curiosity to show them. Dr. Hutton and

several others assembled, when, having the allentois of a calf filled
with hydrogen gas, upon setting it at liberty, it immediately as
cended, and adhered to the ceiling. The phenomenon was easily
accounted for : it was taken for granted that a small black thread
had been attached to the allentois, -- that this thread passed
through the ceiling, and that some one in the apartment above, by
pulling the thread, elevated it to the ceiling, and kept it in that
position. This explanation was so probable, that it was acceded
to by the whole company ; though, like many other plausible theo-

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                             401

   It is by the rarity with which the talent of seizing

upon remote analogies is associated with a spirit of
patient and subtile investigation of details, and a
quick perception of their value, that the fact so truly
stated by Mr. Babbage is to be explained ; viz. that

long intervals frequently elapse between the disco
very of new principles in science and their practical
application : thus he observes, that " the principle of

the hydrostatic paradox was known as a speculative
truth in the time of Stevinus, as far back as the

year 1600, -- and its application to raising heavy

weights has long been stated in elementary treatises

on natural philosophy, as well as constantly exhi

bited in lectures ; yet it may fairly be regarded as a
mere abstract principle, until the late Mr. Bramah,
by substituting a pump, instead of the smaller co
lumn, converted it into a most valuable and power
ful engine. The principle of the convertibility of the
centres of oscillation and suspension in the pendu

lum, discovered by Huygens more than a century
and a half ago, remained, until within these few

years, a sterile though most elegant proposition ;

when, after being hinted at by Prony, and distinctly
pointed out by Bonenberger, it was employed by
Captain Kater as the foundation of a most conve

nes, it was not true ; for when the allentois was brought down, no

thread whatever was found attached to it. Dr. Black explained

the cause of the ascent to his admiring friends ; but such was his

unaccountable apathy, that he never gave the least account of this

curious experiment even to his class ; and more than twelve years

elapsed before this obvious property of hydrogen gas was applied

to the elevation of air  tbhailslooannse,cdboyteM.toChthaerles",   in Paris.  Chemis
   I am indebted for                                              History of

try," a very able work by Dr. Thomson, constituting the third

402 THE LIFE OF

nient method of determining the length of the pen
dulum. The interval which separated the disco
very of Dr. Black, of latent heat, from the beautiful
and successful application of it to the steam-engine,
was comparatively short ; but it required the efforts
of two minds ; and both were of the highest order."*

   The discoveries of Davy present themselves in
striking contrast with such instances. The same
powerful genius that developed the laws of electro
chemical decomposition, was the first to apply them
for the purpose of obviating metallic corrosion ; and
the nature offire-damp, and the fact of its combus
tion being arrested in its passage through capillary
tubes, were alike the discoveries of him who first

tapplied them for the construction of a safety-lamp,

   In contrasting the genius of Wollaston with that
of Davy, let me not be supposed to invite a compa
rison to the disparagement of either, but rather to
the glory of both, for by mutual reflection each will

glow the brighter. If the animating principle of

   * " Reflections on the Decline of Science in England," page 15.
   t While upon this subject, it is impossible not to notice the dis
coveries of Dr. Franklin, who combined in a remarkable degree a
fertile imagination with a solid judgment; and the fruit of this
union is to be seen in the invention of conductors for the security
of ships and buildings against the effects of lightning. The philo
sopher who, predicating the identity of lightning and electricity,
conceived the bold and grand idea of drawing it down from the

thunder-cloud, an experiment which in another age would have
consigned him to the dungeon for impiety, or to the stake for
witchcraft, himself applied this wonderful discovery to the pre
servation of buildings, by the invention of pointed rods of iron.

Of this invention it may be truly said, that he beat Nature with

her own weapons, and triumphed over her power by an obedience
to her own laws.

               SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  403

Davy's mind was a powerful imagination, gene

ralizing phenomena, and casting them into new com

binations, so may the striking characteristic of Wol-

laston's genius be said to have been an almost super
human perception of minute detail. Davy was ever

imagining something greater than he knew ; Wol

laston always  knew something   more than he acknow
               Wollaston, the  predominant principle
ledged: --in

was to avoid error ; in Davy, it was the desire to

discover truth. The tendency of Davy, on all oc

casions, was to raise probabilities into facts ; while

Wollaston as continually made them subservient to

the expression of doubt.

Wollaston was deficient in imagination, and un

der no circumstances could he have become a Poet ;

nor was it to be expected that his investigations

should have led him to any of those comprehensive

generalizations which create new systems of philoso
phy. He well knew the compass of his powers, and

he pursued the only method by which they could

be rendered available in advancing knowledge. He

was a giant in strength, but it was the strength of

Antaeus, mighty only on the earth. The extreme

caution and reserve of his manner were inseparably

connected with the habits of his mind ; they per

vaded every part of his character ; in his amuse

ments and in his scientific experiments, he displayed
the same nice and punctilious observation, -- whe

ther he was angling for trout,* or testing for ele

   * Sir Humphry Davy has told us an anecdote which well illus
trates this observation, while it affords a gratifying testimony of
the kind feeling he entertained towards a kindred philosopher. --
"There was -- alas ! that I must say there was !-- an illustrious phi

                                            2D2

404 THE LIFE OF

ments, he alike relied for success upon his subtile

discrimination of minute circumstances.

By comparing the writings as well as the disco

Iveries of these two great philosophers, we shall rea
dily perceive  the intellectual distinctions have    en
deavoured to   establish. " From their fruits shall   ye

know them." The discoveries of Davy were the

results of extensive views and new analogies ; those

of Wollaston were derived from a more exact ex

amination of minute and, to ordinary observers,

scarcely appreciable differences. This is happily

illustrated by a comparison of the means by which

each discovered new metals. The alkaline bases

were the products of a comprehensive investigation,

which had developed a new order of principles ; the

detection of palladium and rhodium among the ores

of platinum, was the reward of delicate manipula

Ition, and microscopic scrutiny. As chemical opera

tors, have already pointed out their striking pecu

liarities, and they will be found to be in strict keep

Iing with the other features of their respective cha
racters.  might extend the parallel farther ; but

losopher, who was nearly of the age of fifty before he made ang

ling a pursuit, yet he became a distinguished fly-fisher, and the

amusement occupied many of his leisure hours, during the last

twelve years of his life. He indeed applied his preeminent acute-

ness, his science, and his philosophy, to aid the resources and exalt
Ithe pleasures of this amusement.
                                   remember to have seen Dr.

Wollaston, a few days after he had become a fly-fisher, carrying at
his button-hole a piece of Indian rubber, when by passing his silk

worm link through a fissure in the middle, he rendered it straight,

and fit for immediate use. Many other anglers will remember

other ingenious devices of my admirable and ever-to-be-lamented

                SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                   405

Dr. Henry, in the eleventh edition of his " System
of Chemistry," has delineated the intellectual por
traits of these two philosophers with so masterly a

hand, that by quoting the passage, all farther ob

servation will  be rendered  unnecessary.      are  the
   " To those    high gifts
                             of nature, which

characteristics of genius, and which constitute its

very essence, both those eminent men united an

unwearied industry and zeal in research, and habits

of accurate reasoning, without which even the ener

gies of genius are inadequate to the achievement of
great scientific designs. With these excellencies,

common to both, they were nevertheless distinguish

able by marked intellectual peculiarities. Bold,

ardent, and enthusiastic, Davy soared to greater

heights ; he commanded a wider horizon ; and his

keen vision penetrated to its utmost boundaries.

His imagination, in the highest degree fertile and

inventive, took a rapid and extensive range in pur

suit of conjectural analogies, which he submitted to

close and patient comparison with known facts, and

tried by an appeal to ingenious and conclusive ex

periments. He was imbued with the spirit, and was
a master in the practice, of the inductive logic ; and

he has left us some of the noblest examples of the

efficacy of that great instrument of human reason

in the discovery of truth. He applied  it,  not only

to connect classes of facts of more limited extent

and importance, but to develope great and compre

hensive laws, which embrace phenomena that are

almost universal to the natural world. In explain

ing those laws, he cast upon them the illumination

406 THE LIFE OF

an intense admiration of the beauty, order, and
harmony, which are conspicuous in the perfect Che
mistry of Nature; -- and he expressed those feel
ings with a force of eloquence which could issue
only from a mind of the highest powers and of
the finest sensibilities. With much less enthu
siasm from temperament, Dr. Wollaston was en
dowed with bodily senses* of extraordinary acute-
ness and accuracy, and with great general vigour
of understanding. Trained in the discipline ;of the

exact sciences, he had acquired a powerful com
mand over his attention, and had habituated him
self to the most rigid correctness, both of thought

and of language. He was sufficiently provided with
the resources of the mathematics, to be enabled to
pursue with success profound enquiries in mecha
nical and optical philosophy, the results of which
enabled him to unfold the causes of phenomena not

before understood, and to enrich the arts connected
with those sciences, by the invention of ingenious

and valuable instruments. In Chemistry, he was

distinguished by the extreme nicety and delicacy
of his observations ; by the quickness and precision
with which he marked resemblances and discrimi
nated differences ; the sagacity with which he de
vised experiments and anticipated their results ; and

    * Mr. Babbage considers it as a great mistake to suppose that
Dr. Wollaston's microscopic accuracy depended upon the extraor
dinary acuteness of the bodily senses; a circumstance, he says,
which, if it were true, would add but little to his philosophical cha
racter. He is inclined to view it in a far different light, and to see
in it one of the natural results of the precision of his knowledge

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  407

the skill with which he executed the analysis of frag
ments of new substances, often so minute as to be
scarcely perceptible by ordinary eyes. He was re
markable, too, for the caution with which he ad

vanced from facts to general conclusions : a caution

which, if it sometimes prevented him from reaching

at once to the most sublime truths, yet rendered
every step of his ascent a secure station, from which
it was easy to rise to higher and more enlarged in

ductions. Thus these illustrious men, though dif

fering essentially in their natural powers and acquir
ed habits, and moving, independently of each other,

in different paths, contributed to accomplish the same

great ends -- the evolving new elements; the com
bining matter into new forms ; the increase of hu
man happiness by the improvement of the arts of
civilized life ; and the establishment of general laws,
that will serve to guide other philosophers onwards,
through vast and unexplored regions of scientific

discovery."

   My history draws towards a conclusion. -- Sir

Humphry Davy, during the latter days of his life,
was cheered by the society and affectionate atten
tions of his godson, the son of his old friend Mr.
James Tobin.* He had been the companion of his
travels, and he was the solace of his declining hours.

    He had been resident for some months at Rome,
where he occupied the second floor of a house in
Via di Pietra, a street that leads out of the Corso.

   * This inestimable man died on his plantation at Nevis, on the

408 THE LIFE OF

During this period, he declined receiving any visi
tors, and had constantly some one by his side read
ing light works of interest to him, an amusement
which was even continued during his meals.

   As soon as the account of Sir Humphry having

sustained another paralytic seizure was communi
cated to Lady Davy, who was in London at the
time, she immediately set off, and so rapidly was
her journey performed, that she reached Rome in
little more than twelve days. Dr. John Davy, also,
hastened from Malta, on receiving intelligence of

his brother's imminent danger.
   During his slow and partial recovery from this

seizure, he learnt the circumstance of his name

having been introduced into parliamentary proceed
ings, in the following manner. On the 26th of
March 1829, on presenting a petition in favour of
the Catholic claims from a very great and most re
spectable meeting at Edinburgh, Sir James Mackin
tosh, after having mentioned the name of Sir Walter
Scott as being at the head of the petitioners, conti
nued thus '.--"Although not pertinent to this peti

tion, yet connected with the cause, I indulge in the

melancholy pleasure of adding to the first name in
British literature the first name in British science --
that of Sir Humphry Davy. Though on a sick-bed
at Rome, he was not so absorbed by his sufferings
as not to feel and express the glow of joy that shot
across his heart at the glad tidings of the introduc
tion of a bill which he hailed as alike honourable to

Ihis religion and his country."

      am assured that the last mark of satisfaction

which he evinced from any intelligence communi

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  409

cated to him was on reading the above passage.

He showed a pleasure unusual in his state of lan
guor at the justice thus done, in the face of his

country, to his consistency, to his zeal for religion

and liberty, and to the generous sentiments which
cheered his debility. The marks of his pleasure
were observed by those who were brought most
near to him by the performance of every kind office.

   Although there appeared some faint indications
of reviving power, his most sanguine friends scarce
ly ventured to indulge a hope that his life would be
much longer protracted. Nor did he himself ex

pect it. The expressions in his Will (printed in an

Appendix) sufficiently testify the opinion he had
for some time entertained of the hopelessness of

his case.

   In addition to this Will, he left a paper of direc

tions, which have been religiously observed by his

widow. He desires, for instance, that the interest

arising from a hundred pounds stock may be an
nually paid to the Master of the Penzance Grammar
School, on condition that the boys may have a holi
day on his birthday.* There is something singu
larly interesting in this favourable recollection of
his native town, and of the associations of his early

youth. It adds one more example to show that,

whatever may have been our destinies, and however

fortune may have changed our conditions, where

the heart remains un corrupted, we shall, as the

   I understand that the present Master, the Reverend Mr. Mor

ris, has expressed his intention to apply the above sum to pur
chasing a medal, which he intends to bestow as a Prize to the

410 THE LIFE OF

world closes upon us, fix our imaginations upon the

simplicities of our youth, and be cheered and warm
ed by the remembrance of early pleasures, hallowed

by feelings of regard for the memory of those who

have long since slept in the grave.

   With that restlessness which characterises the

disease under which Sir Humphry Davy suffered,

he became extremely desirous of quitting Rome, and
of establishing himself at Geneva. His friends were

naturally anxious to gratify every wish ; and Lady

Davy kindly preceded him on the journey, in order

that she might at each stage make arrangements for

Uhis comfortable reception. Apartments were pre

pared for him at Hotel de la Couronne, in the Rue
du Rhone ; and at three o'clock on the 28th of May,

having slept the preceding evening at Chambery,

he arrived at Geneva, accompanied by his brother,

Mr. Tobin, and his servant.

  At four o'clock he dined, ate heartily, was un

usually cheerful, and joked with the waiter about
the cookery of the fish, which he appeared particu

larly to admire ; and he desired that, as long as he

remained at the hotel, he might be daily supplied
with every possible variety that the lake afforded.

He drank tea at eleven, and having directed that

the feather-bed should be removed, retired to rest at

twelve.

His servant, who slept in a bed parallel to his

own, in the same alcove, was however very shortly
called to attend him, and he desired that his brother
Imight be summoned.

IDavy's entering the
             am informed that, on Dr.
         room, he said, " am dying,"

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                              411

desire that no disturbance of any kind may be made
in the house ; lock the door, and let every one retire
quietly to his apartment." He expired at a quarter
before three o'clock, without a struggle.

   On the following morning, his friends Sis-
mondi* and De Candolle were sent for; and the
Syndics, as soon as the circumstance of his death

was communicated to them, gave directions for a

public funeral on the Monday ; at which the ma

gistrates, the professors, the English residents at
Geneva, and such inhabitants as desired it, were in
vited to attend. The ceremony was ordered to be
conducted after the custom of Geneva, which is
always on foot -- no hearse ; nor did a single carriage
attend. The cemetery is at Plain -Palais, some little
distance out of the walls of the town. The Cou-

ronne being at the opposite extremity, the proces

sion was long.

  The following was the order of the procession :-- f

The Two Syndics, (in their robes)

Magistrates of the Republic,

   Professors of the College, in their robes,
MM. Simond de Sismondi-- A. de Candolle.

THE ENGLISH.

Lord Eglington,          Capt Archibald Hamilton,
Lord Twedell,            Mr. Campbell,
                         Mr. Franks,
Right Hon. Wm. Wyckham,

   * Simond de Sismondi, the celebrated author of the History of
the Italian Republic.

   t For these particulars I am indebted to Sir Egerton Brydges.

412 THE LIFE OF

Wm. Hamilton, Esq., Ex-Am-  Mr. Alcock,
                            Mr. Drew,
   bassador at Naples.      Mr. Heywood,

Sir Egkrton Brydges, Bart.  Mr. Sitwell,

Colonel Alcock,                       &c.
Captain Swinters,

      The Students of the College.

      The Citizens of Geneva.

   The English service was performed by the Rev.
John Magers, of Queen's College, and the Rev. Mr.

Burgess.

   The grave was stated in the public prints to be

next to that of his friend the late Professor M. A.
Pictet : this is not the fact. It is far away from

on the second line of No. 29, the fourth grave from
the end of the west side of the Cemetery.
      is
          a
                       is

                                                                              :
                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                    it,
Sir Humphry Davy having died without issue,

his baronetcy has become extinct.

  At present, the only memorial raised to com

memorate the name of this distinguished philoso

pher  Tablet placed in Westminster Abbey by
his widow. It thus inscribed --

                         to the memory of
                  sir humphry davy, baronet;
            distinguished throughout the world

                                            BY HIS

                 DISCOVERIES IN CHEMICAL SCIENCE.

                  PRESIDENT OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY
      MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.

              BORN 17 DECEMBER 1778, AT PENZANCE.
                     DIED 28 MAY 1829, AT GENEVA,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  413

   The numerous scientific societies of which he was
a member, will, no doubt, consecrate his memory.

An eloquent Eloge has been read by Baron Cuvier

Ibefore the Institute of France ; but it has not yet

been published : have obtained, however, a copy
of a speech delivered upon the same occasion, by

H. C. Van der Boon Mesch, before the Institute of

the Netherlands.

   Mr. Davies Gilbert, his early friend and patron,

has likewise paid to his memory a just and appro
priate testimony of respect and admiration, in an
address from the chair of the Royal Society.

   The inhabitants of Penzance and its neighbour
hood, animated by feelings of honourable pride and
strong local attachment, will shortly, it is under
stood, raise a pyramid of massive granite to his
memory, on one of those elevated spots of silence
and solitude, where he delighted in his boyish days
to commune with the elements, and where the

Spirit of Nature moulded his genius in one of her

wildest moods.

   As yet, no intention on the part of the Govern

ment to commemorate this great philosopher, by
the erection of a national monument, has been mani
fested : for the credit, however, of an age which is

 so continually distinguished as the most enlightened

Iperiod in our history, do hope the disgrace of such
Ian omission may pass from us ; although, confess,

 it is rather to be wished than expected, when it is

 remembered that not a niche has been graced by
 the statue of Watt, while the giant iron children of

 his inventive genius are serving mankind in every

414 THE LIFE OF

impression would seem to exist with regard to the
object and importance of such monuments. They

are not to honour the dead, but to improve the

living ; not to give lustre to the philosopher, but to

afford a salutary incentive to the disciple ; not to

perpetuate discoveries, for they can never be lost ;
but to animate scientific genius, and to engage it

upon objects that may be useful to the common
wealth. Let it be remembered, that the ardour of the

Roman youth was kindled into active emulation,

whenever  they   beheld the  images of their ancestors.
                 audivi, Q.  Maximum, P. Scipionem,
   " Nam  saepe

praeterea civitatis nostrse praeclaros viros, solitos ita

dicere, cum majorum imagines intuerentur, vehe-

mentissime sibi animum ad virtutem accendi. Scili

cet non ceram illam, neque figuram tantam vim in
sese habere ; sed memoria rerum gestarum earn flam-
mam egregiis viris in pectore crescere, neque prius

sedari, quam virtus eorum famam atque gloriam

adaequaverit."*

   The fame of such a philosopher as Davy can
never be exalted by any frail memorial which man
can raise. His monument is in the great Temple

of Nature, f His chroniclers are Time and the

Elements. The destructive agents which reduce to

dust the storied urn, the marble statue, and the

towering pyramid, were the ministers of his power,
and their work of decomposition is a perpetual me

morial of his intelligence.

* Sallust. Bell. Jugurth.

'AvSgaiv yag emfxvmv itaaa. yrj Tapoj, xoti oo <mj\v /mvov
rj)

      .f"

                                                                       fi iv
                                                                            rft
                                                                                              (xij
                                                                                                                       iv
oixe/a crrijjuilvsi rTriygaftj, aWa xai          7rpo<njxot/a">) aypa^of

fLvriit.r) irup' ixa<TTa> rrj; yva>(iri; paAXsv  tov epyou evSiaiTarai

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  415

A SKETCH OF THE HISTORY OF CHEMICAL SCIENCE,

    WITH A VIEW TO EXHIBIT THE REVOLUTIONS PRO

    DUCED IN ITS DOCTRINES BY THE DISCOVERIES OF

    SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

   The rapidity with which chemical opinions have

risen into notice, flourished for a while, and then
fallen into disrepute, to be succeeded by others
equally precarious in their tenure and ephemeral in
their popularity, are circumstances which the super
ficial reasoner has ever deplored, and the Sciolist as
constantly converted into arguments against the
soundness of the science which produced them.

The leaves of a season will sprout, expand, and
wither ; and the dry foliage will be pushed off by
the propulsion of new buds ; but this last change is
not effected in them, until they have absorbed the
light and dews of heaven for the nourishment of the

plant that bore them ; and when even they shall

have fallen to the earth, they will farther supply its
spreading roots with fresh soil for its future growth

and healthy developement ; and entering into new
combinations, will re-appear in the same tree under
fresh forms of usefulness and symmetry. In like
manner, chemical theories are but for a season ; they
are nothing more than general expressions of known
facts ; they may delight by their ingenuity, as ve

416 THE LIFE OF

real and substantial use is to extend science ; and as

facts accumulate under their operation, they must
give way to others better adapted to the increased
growth and expansion of knowledge ; nor does the

utility of theories cease with their rejection, -- they
afford objects of analogy and comparison which

assist the philosopher in his progress to truth, while
their elements furnish materials for future arrange

ments. Were it otherwise, we should behold science

in its advancement as a shapeless mass, enlarging
by constant appositions, but without a single sign of

Ifgrowth or inward sympathy.
        chemical theories have undergone more rapid
and frequent changes than those of other branches,
the circumstance has arisen from the rapid manner
in which new and important facts have been suc
cessively added to the general store.

    Whatever may be the vices attributed to Che

mistry on such occasions, they have belonged to the
philosophers engaged in its pursuit, and are no evi
dence of the frailty of the science itself ; and here it
must be admitted, that there exists in one portion of
mankind a self-love which cannot patiently submit
to a change of opinions of which they are either
the authors or defenders, while in another there

predominates a timidity which naturally leads them,
amidst the storm of controversy, to cling to the
wreck of a shattered theory, rather than to trust
themselves to a new and untried bark.

   In our review of the history of Science, we have

frequently to witness how the wisest philosopher
has strained truth, for the support of a favourite

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY,                                  417

theory, instead of adapting theories to facts --but

this vice does not belong exclusively to chemical

philosophers. Huygens, the celebrated Dutch As

tronomer, from some imaginary property in the
number six, having discovered one of Saturn's

moons, absolutely declined looking for any more,

merely because that one, when added to the four
moons of Jupiter, and to the one belonging to the
Earth, made up the required number.

    Such reflections naturally arise on viewing, with
a philosophic eye, the progress and modifications
of chemical opinions ; and it is essential that they
should be duly appreciated upon the present occa
sion ; for, before any just estimate can be formed of
the talents and services of Sir Humphry Davy, we

must thoroughly consider, in all their bearings and
relations, the various prejudices with which he had
to contend in his efforts to modify a gigantic theory,

which enjoyed an unrestrained dominion in the che

mical world, and for many years continued to be the
pride of France and the admiration of Europe.

   It would be quite foreign to the plan of this

sketch,* which the reader must consider as wholly

subservient to the object that has been announced,

to enquire how far the ancients, in their metallurgi
cal processes, can be said to have exercised the arts of

chemistry. Equally vain would it be to enter into a
history of that system of delusion and imposture, so
long practised under the denomination of Alchymy.

It is only necessary to consider Chemistry in its

* This historical sketch has no pretensions to originality.   It is

compiled from the best authors, and from the Introduction    to Sir

H. Davy's Elements of Chemical Philosophy.
VOL. II.
          2E

418 THE LIFE OF

dignified and purely scientific form ; and we have
only to notice those commanding discoveries and
opinions which led to the developement of that sys
tem, which the genius of Davy was destined to

modify.
   The origin of Chemistry, as a science, cannot be

dated farther back than about the middle of the

seventeenth century ; and Beccher, the contempo
rary of Boyle, who was born at Spires in 1635, was
unquestionably the first to construct any thing like

a general theory. He formed the bold idea of ex
plaining the whole system of the earth by the mu
tual agency and changes of a few elements. And
by supposing the existence of a vitrifiable, a metallic,

and an inflammable earth, he attempted to account
for the various productions of rocks, crystalline

bodies, and metallic veins, assuming a continual
interchange of principles between the atmosphere,
the ocean, and the solid surface of the globe, and
considering the operations of nature as all capable of
being imitated by art.

   Albertus Magnus had advanced the opinion that
the metals were earthy substances impregnated with

a certain inflammable principle; but Beccher sup
ported the idea of this principle not only as the cause
of metallization, but likewise of combustibility.
Stahl, however, one of the most extraordinary men
that Germany ever produced, having adopted and
amplified this theory, carried off the entire credit of
being its founder, and it is universally spoken of as
the Stahlian Theory.

   This theory forms so important a feature in the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  419

ascendency in the schools, that it will be necessary
to give the reader a short summary of its principles.

It assumed that all combustible bodies are compounds :

one of the constituents being volatile, and therefore
easily dissipated during the act of combustion ; while

the other, being fixed, constantly remained as the
residue of the process. This volatile principle, for
which Stahl invented the term Phlogiston, was con
sidered as being identical in every species of combus
tible matter ; in short, it was supposed that there was
but one principle of combustibility in nature, and

that was the imaginary phantom Phlogiston, which
for nearly a century possessed the schools of Europe,
and, like an evil spirit, crossed the path of the philo

sopher at every step, and by its treacherous glare
allured him from the steady pursuit of truth ; for,

whether a substance were combustible or not, its

nature could never be investigated without a refer

ence to its supposed relations with Phlogiston ; its

presence, or its absence, was supposed to stamp a
character upon all bodies, and to occasion all the

changes which they undergo. Hence chemistry and
combustion came to be in some measure identified ;
and a theory of combustion was considered the same
thing as a theory of chemistry.

    The identity of Phlogiston in all combustible

bodies was founded upon observations and experi
ments of so decisive a nature, that after the existence

of the principle itself was admitted, they could not
fail to be satisfactory. When phosphorus is made to
burn, it gives out a strong flame, much heat is
evolved, and the phosphorus is dissipated in fumes,

2E2

420 THE LIFE OF

moisture from the atmosphere, and produce an acid
liquid known by the name of phosphoric acid.

IfPhosphorus then must consist, say the Stahlians, of

Phlogiston and this acid. Again -- this liquid be
evaporated to a dry substance, mixed with a quan
tity of charcoal powder, and then heated in a vessel

from which the external air is excluded, & portion, or
the whole of the charcoal will disappear, and phos
phorus will be reproduced, possessing all the proper
ties that it had before it was subjected to combus

tion. In this case, it was supposed that the charcoal

restored the phlogiston. There was much plausi
bility in all this, as well as in the reasoning which

followed. Since we may employ, with equal suc
cess, any kind of combustible body for the purpose
of changing phosphoric acid into phosphorus, such
as lamp-black, sugar, resin, or even several of the

metals, it was concluded that all such bodies contain

a common principle which they communicate to the

phosphoric acid ; and since the new body formed is
in all cases identical, the principle communicated
must also be identical. Hence combustible bodies

contain an identical principle, and this principle is

Phlogiston.
   The same theory applied with equal force to the

burning of sulphur and several of the metals, and to
their reconversion by combustible bodies.

   When lead is kept nearly at a red-heat in the open
air for some time, it is converted into a pigment
called red lead; this is a calx of lead. To restore
this calx again to metallic lead, it is only necessary

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  421

common principle, which they communicated to the

red lead, and by so doing reconverted it to the state
of metal. Metals then were regarded as compounds
of calces and phlogiston. Thus far the theory works
glibly enough ; but now comes a startling fact, which
was long unnoticed by the blind adherents of Stahl,

or, if noticed, intentionally overlooked. It was ob

served very early, that when a metal was converted
into a calx, its weight was increased. When this
difficulty first forced itself upon the attention of the
Phlogistians, it was necessary that they should either
explain it, or at once abandon their theory. They
accordingly endeavoured to evade the difficulty, not
only by asserting that phlogiston had no weight, but

that it was actually endowed with a principle of

levity.

   It was not possible, however, that any rational

notions should have been entertained upon the sub
ject of combustion, at a period when the composition

of the atmosphere even was unknown. Let us there
fore follow the stream of discovery, skimming the
surface merely, as it flowed onward towards quite
a new field of science--Pneumatic Chemistry.

    Boyle and Hooke, who had improved the air-
pump invented by Otto de Guericke, of Maden-
burgh, first used this apparatus for investigating the
properties of air ; and they concluded from their ex
periments that air was absolutely necessary to com
bustion and respiration, and that one part of it only
was employed in these processes ; and Hooke formed
the sagacious conclusion, that this principle is the
same as the substance fixed in nitre, and that com

422 THE LIFE OF

burning body in elastic fluid, or its union with this

 matter.

    Mayow, of Oxford, in 1674, published his treatises
 on the Nitro-aerial spirit, in which he advanced
 opinions similar to those of Boyle and Hooke, and
supported them by a number of original and curious

 experiments.

    Dr. Hales, about 1724, resumed the investigations
 commenced with so much success by Boyle, Hooke,
and Mayow ; and endeavoured to ascertain the
chemical relations of air to other substances, and to
ascertain by statistical experiments the cases in na
ture, in which it is absorbed or emitted. He ob
tained a number of curious and important results ;
he disengaged elastic fluids from various substances,
and drew the conclusion, that air was a chemical

element in many compound bodies, and that flame
resulted from the action and reaction of aerial and

sulphurous particles; but all his reasonings were
contaminated with the notion of one elementary
principle constituting elastic matter, and modified
in its properties by the effluvia of solid or fluid

bodies.

    The light of Pneumatic science which had
dawned under Hooke, Mayow, and Hales, burst
forth in splendour under the ascendency of that
constellation of British science, Black, Cavendish,

and Priestley.

   In 1756, Dr. Black published his researches on

calcareous, magnesian, and alkaline substances, by
which he proved the existence of a gaseous body,
perfectly distinct from the air of the atmosphere.

        SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.          423

and chalk by not containing this substance, which

he proved to be a weak acid, capable of being ex

pelled from alkaline and earthy bodies by stronger

acids.

As nothing is more instructive than to enquire

Iinto the circumstances which have led to a great

discovery, quote with pleasure the following pas
       from Dr. Thomson's History  of Chemistry.
sag"e
       It was the good fortune of  chemical science

that, at this time (1751), the opinions of professors

were divided concerning the manner in which cer

tain lithonthriptic medicines, particularly lime-water,

acted in alleviating the excruciating pains of the
stone and gravel. The students usually partake of

such differences of opinion : they are thereby ani

mated to more serious study, and science gains by

their emulation.

  " All the medicines which were then in vogue as

solvents of calculi had a greater or less resemblance

to caustic potash or soda ; substances so acrid, when

in a concentrated state, that in a short time they re

duce the fleshy parts of the animal body to a mere

pulp. They all seemed to derive their efficacy from

quick-lime, which again derived its power from the

fire. It was therefore very natural for them to

ascribe its power to igneous matter imbibed from

the fire, retained by  the lime,   and communicated   by
it to alkalies which   it renders  powerfully acrid.
                                                      It

appears from Dr. Black's note-books, that he ori
ginally entertained the opinion, that caustic alkalies
acquired igneous matter from quick-lime. In one
of them, he hints at some way of catching this mat

424 THE LIFE OF

by exposure to the air ; but on the opposite blank
pcoangseideisrabwlyrittbeyn, ab'sNorobtihnigngair.e' scaApesfe--w
                                                                     the cup rises
                                                                     pages further

on, he compares the loss of weight sustained by an

ounce of chalk when calcined, with its loss while

dissolved in muriatic acid.

   "These experiments laid open the whole mys

Itery, as appears by another memorandum. ' When
   precipitate lime by a common alkali, there is no
effervescence : the air quits the alkali for the lime ;

but it is lime no longer, but c. c. c : it now effer
vesces, which good lime will not.' --What a mul

titude of important consequences naturally flowed
from this discovery ! He now knew to what the

causticity of alkalies is owing, and how to induce it,

           at pleasure. The common notion was
or remove ;

            it

                it,

                                                                  a
entirely reversed. Lime imparts nothing to the

alkalies   only removes from them peculiar kind

of air (carbonic acid gas) with which they were
combined, and which prevented their natural caustic

properties from being developed. All the former

mysteries disappear, and the greatest simplicity ap
pears in those operations of nature which before

appeared so intricate and obscure."

   Dr. Thomson afterwards observes,--" The disco

very which Dr. Black had made, that marble
                             a

                                                it

                                                          is
                                                                  is
                                                                          a
combination of lime and peculiar substance, to

which he gave the name of fixed air, began gra
dually to attract the attention of chemists in other

parts of the world. It was natural, in the first place,

to examine the nature and properties of this fixed

air, and the circumstances under which                               gene
rated. It may seem strange and unaccountable that

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  425

Dr. Black did not enter with ardour into this new

career which he had himself opened, and that he

allowed others to reap the corn after having himself

sown the grain. Yet he did take some steps to
wards ascertaining the properties affixed air; though

I am not certain what progress he made. He knew

that a candle would not burn in it, and that it is

destructive to life, when any living animal attempts
to breathe it. He knew that it is formed in the

lungs during the breathing of animals, and that it
is generated during the fermentation of wine and

Ibeer. Whether he was aware that it possesses the

properties of an acid, do not know ; though with
the knowledge which he possessed that it combines

with alkalies and alkaline earths, and neutralizes

them, or at least blunts and diminishes their alkaline
properties, the conclusion that it partook of acid

properties was scarcely avoidable. All these, and

probably some other properties of fixed air, he was
in the constant habit of stating in his lectures from
the very commencement of his academical career;

though, as he never published any thing on the
subject himself, it is not possible to know exactly
how far his knowledge of the properties of fixed air

Iextended. The oldest manuscript copy of his lec

tures that have seen was taken down in writing in
the year 1773 ; and before that time Mr. Cavendish
had published his paper on fixed air and hydrogen

gas, and had detailed the properties of each. It

was impossible from the manuscript of Dr. Black's
lectures, to know which of the properties of fixed
air stated by him were discovered by himself, and
which were taken from Mr. Cavendish."

426 THE LIFE OF

   An idea so novel and important as that of an air
possessing properties quite different from that of

the atmosphere, existing in a fixed and solid state in
various bodies, was not received without doubt, and

even opposition. Several German enquirers endea
voured to controvert it. Meyer attempted to show
that limestone became caustic, not by the emission
of elastic matter, but by combining with a peculiar
substance in the fire ; the loss of weight, however,
was wholly inconsistent with such a view of the
question : and Bergman at Upsal, Macbride in Ire

land, Keir at Birmingham, and Cavendish in Lon
don, fully demonstrated the truth of the opinion of

Black, and a few years were sufficient to establish
his theory upon an immutable foundation, and to
open a new road to most important discoveries.

   The knowledge of one elastic fluid, entirely dif

ferent in its properties from air, very naturally sug

gested the probability of the existence of others.
The processes of fermentation which had been ob

served by the ancient chemists, and those by which
Hales had disengaged and collected elastic sub
stances, were now regarded under a novel point of
view ; and the consequence was, that a number of
new bodies, possessed of very extraordinary proper

ties, were discovered.

   Mr. Cavendish, about the year 1765, invented an
apparatus for examining elastic fluids confined by
water, which has since been called the hydro-pneu
matic apparatus. He discovered inflammable air,
and described its properties ; he ascertained the re
lative weights of fixed air, inflammable air, and

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                            427

accurate experiments on the properties of these

elastic substances.

Dr. Priestley, in 1771, entered the same path of

enquiry ; and principally by repeating the processes
of Hales, added a number of most important facts

to this department of chemical philosophy. He dis

covered nitrous air, nitrous oxide, and dephlogis-

ticated air, (oxygen) and by substituting mercury

for water in the pneumatic apparatus, ascertained

the existence of several aeriform bodies which are

rapidly absorbable by water ; such as muriatic acid

gas, sulphurous acid gas, and ammonia.
   Scheele, independently of Priestley, also discovered

several of the aeriform bodies ; he ascertained like

wise the composition of the atmosphere ; he brought

to light fluoric acid, prussic acid, and the substance

which he termed dephlogisticated marine acid, the

oxymuriatic acid of the French school, and the

chlorine of Davy.

Sir Humphry Davy, in the preface to his Che

mical Philosophy, observes that Black, Cavendish,

Priestley, and Scheele, were undoubtedly the greatest
chemical discoverers of the eighteenth century ;

and that their merits are distinct, peculiar, and of
the most exalted kind. He thus defines them
                                             :
  " Black made a smaller number of original
                                             expe

riments than either of the other philosophers ; but

being the first labourer in this new department of

the science, he had greater difficulties to overcome.

His methods are distinguished for their simplicity ;

his reasonings are admirable for their precision ; and

his modest, clear, and unaffected manner is well cal

428 THE LIFE OF

the accuracy of his processes, and the truth and can

dour of his researches.
   " Cavendish was possessed of a minute know

ledge of most of the departments of Natural Philo

sophy : he carried into his chemical researches a

delicacy and precision, which have never been ex
ceeded : possessing depth and extent of mathema
tical knowledge, he reasoned with the caution of a

geometer upon the results of his experiments ; and

it may be said of him, what, perhaps, can scarcely be

said of any other person, that whatever he accom

plished, was perfect at the moment of its produc
tion. His processes were all of a finished nature ;

executed by the hand of a master, they required no

correction ; the accuracy and beauty of his earliest

labours even have remained unimpaired amidst the

progress of discovery, and their merits have been

illu"stDrart.edPrbiyesditslceusysiobnegaannd  exalted by time.
                                              his career of discovery

without any general knowledge of chemistry, and
with a very imperfect apparatus. His character

istics were ardent zeal and the most unwearied in

dustry. He exposed all the substances he could

procure to chemical agencies, and brought forward

his results as they occurred, without attempting lo
gical method or scientific arrangement. His hypo

theses were usually founded upon a few loose analo

gies ; but he changed them with facility ; and being

framed without much effort, they were relinquished

with little regret. He possessed in the highest de
gree ingenuousness and the love of truth. His ma

nipulations, though never very refined, were always

SIR HUMPHRY' DAVY.  429

some of her most important instruments of research,
and many of her most useful combinations ; and no

single person ever discovered so many new and cu

rious substances.

   " Scheele possessed in the highest degree the
faculty of invention ; all his labours were instituted
with an object in view, and after happy or bold
analogies. He owed little to fortune or to acci

dental circumstances : born in an obscure situation,

occupied in the duties of an irksome employment,
nothing could damp the ardour of his mind, or chill
the fire of his genius ; with very small means, he
accomplished very great things. No difficulties de
terred him from submitting his ideas to the test of

experiment. Occasionally misled in his views, in
consequence of the imperfection of his apparatus, or
the infant state of the enquiry, he never hesitated to

give up his opinions the moment they were contra

dicted by facts. He was eminently endowed with
that candour which is characteristic of great minds,

and which induces them to rejoice as well in the
detection of their own errors, as in the discovery of

truth. His papers are admirable models of the

manner in which experimental research ought to be
pursued; and they contain details on some of the
most important and brilliant phenomena of chemical

philosophy."
   The discovery of the gases, of a new class of

bodies more active than any others in most of the

phenomena of nature and art, could not fail to
modify the whole theory of chemistry, and, under
the genius of Lavoisier, it ultimately led to the

430 THE LIFE OF

the principal object of this history to expound ; but
before this task can be accomplished, it will be ne

cessary to consider the rise and progress of opinion

concerning chemical attraction, and heat and light,

since these subjects are too intimately interwoven

with the anti-phlogistic system to be separated from
any examination of its principles.

Boyle, says Sir Humphry Davy, was one of the

most active experimenters, and certainly the greatest

chemist of his age. He introduced the use of tests,

or re-agents, active substances for detecting the

presence of other bodies : he overturned the ideas

which at that time were prevalent, that the results
of operations by fire were the real elements of things ;
and he ascertained a number of important facts re

specting inflammable bodies, and alkalies, and the
phenomena of combination ; but neither he nor any

of his contemporaries endeavoured to account for the

changes of bodies by any fixed principles.
   The solutions of the phenomena were attempted

either on rude mechanical notions, or by occult qua

lities, or peculiar subtile spirits or ethers, supposed to

exist in the different bodies. And it is to the same

great genius who developed the laws that regulate
the motions of the heavenly bodies, that chemistry

owes the first distinct philosophical elucidations of

the powers which produce the changes and apparent
transmutations of the substances belonging to the

earth.

   " Sugar dissolves in water, alkalies unite with

acids, metals  dissolve  in acids. Is not this,"    says
               account   of an attraction between
Newton, " on                                       their

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            431

down by iron. Is not this because the particles of

the iron have a stronger attraction for the particles

of the acid, than those of copper ; and do not differ

ent bodies attract each other with different degrees
of force ?"

   In 1719, Geoffroy endeavoured to ascertain the
relative attractive powers of bodies for each other,

and to arrange them, under the form of a table, in

an order in which these forces, which he named

affinities, were expressed.

   Concerning the nature of heat, there are two opi

nions which have ever divided the chemical world.

The one considers it merely as a property of matter,
and that it consists in an undefinable motion, or

vibration of its particles ; the other, on the contrary,
regards it as a distinct and subtile substance, sui
generis. Each of these opinions has been supported

by the greatest philosophers, and for a long period

the arguments on both sides appeared equally plau

sible and forcible. The discovery of Dr. Black, how

ever, gave a preponderance to the scale in favour

of its materiality.
   "  It was during his residence
the                                in Glasgow, between
      year 1759 and 1763," says
                                   Dr. Thomson, " that

he brought to maturity those speculations concern
ing the combination of heat with matter, which had
frequently occupied a portion of his thoughts."

   Before Dr. Black's discovery, it was universally

supposed that solids were converted into liquids
by a small addition of heat, after they have been

once raised to the melting point, and that they

returned again to the solid state on a very small

432 THE LIFE OF

keep them at that temperature. An attentive view,

however, of the phenomena of liquefaction and

solidification gradually led this sagacious philoso

pher to a different conclusion. By observations
which it is unnecessary to detail, he became satis
fied that when ice is converted into water, it unites
with a quantity of heat, without having its tem

perature increased ; and that when water is frozen
into ice, it gives out a quantity of heat without

having it diminished. The heat thus combined,
then, is the cause of the fluidity of the water ; and
as it is not sensible to the thermometer, Dr. Black
called it latent heat.

   There is such an analogy between the cessation of

thermometric expansion during the liquefaction of
ice, and during the conversion of water into steam,

that there could be no hesitation about explaining

both in the same way. Dr. Black, therefore, imme

diately concluded that, as water is ice united to a
certain quantity of latent heat, so steam is water

united to a still greater quantity.
   This beautiful theory enables us to understand

phenomena in nature which were previously quite

inexplicable. We now comprehend how the thaw

which supervenes after intense frost, should so slowly
melt the wreaths of snow and beds of ice. Had,
indeed, the transition of water from its solid into its
liquid state not been accompanied by this great
change in its relation to heat, every thaw would have
occasioned a frightful inundation, and a single night's
frost must have solidified our rivers and lakes. Nei
ther animal nor vegetable life could have subsisted

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  433

appear, then, that water, during the act of freezing,
is acted upon by two opposite powers : it is deprived
of heat by exposure to a medium whose temperature
is below 32 ; and it is supplied with heat by the
evolution of that principle from itself, viz. of that
portion which constituted its fluidity. As these
powers are exactly equal, the temperature of the
water must remain unchanged till the latent heat,

necessary to its fluidity, is all evolved.

    Although these facts have been admitted by
all, it has been contended by many that the ab
sorption of heat by bodies is the necessary effect, and
not the efficient cause, of change of form, -- the con
sequence of what has been called a change of their

capacity: thus ice, it is supposed, in becoming water,

has its capacity for heat increased, and the absorption
of heat is a consequence of such increased capacity.
This theory, however, is deficient, inasmuch as it
fails to explain the cause of that change of form,
which is assumed to account for the increase of

capacity.

   Light, like heat, has been considered by some
philosophers as a subtile fluid filling space, and ren

dering bodies visible by the undulations into which

it is thrown ; while others, with Newton at their
head, regard it as a substance consisting of small

particles, constantly separating from luminous bo
dies, moving in straight lines, and rendering objects
visible by passing from them and entering the eye.

The late experiments of Dr. Young would incline

us to prefer the undulatory to the corpuscular

hypothesis.

434 THE LIFE OF

   By this preliminary sketch, the reader has been
prepared for viewing with advantage the theory of
Lavoisier ; in the construction of which he will see
little more than a happy generalization of the several
discoveries which have been enumerated. Indeed,

this observation will apply to all great systems of

philosophy ; facts, developed by successive enquirers,
go on accumulating, until, after an interval, a happy
genius arises who connects and links them together ;
and thus generally receives that meed of praise
which, in stricter justice, would be apportioned and

awarded to the separate contributors. It is far from

my intention to disparage the merits of Lavoisier ;
but the materials of his system were undoubtedly
furnished by Black, Priestley, and Cavendish.

   The most important modification of the phlogistic
theory --for there were several others -- may be said
to be that suggested by Dr. Crawford. Dr. Priest
ley had found that the air in which combustibles
were suffered to burn till they were extinguished,
underwent a very remarkable change, for no com
bustible would afterwards burn in it, and no animal
could breathe it without suffocation. Dr. Crawford,
like many others, concluded, that this change was
owing to phlogiston ; but he for the first time
applied Dr. Black's doctrine of latent heat, for the
explanation of the origin of the heat and light
which appear during the process. According to this
philosopher, the phlogiston of the combustible com
bines, during combustion, with the air, and at the
same time separates the caloric and light with which
that fluid had been previously united. The heat
and the light, then, which appear during combus

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  435

tion, exist previously in the air. This theory was

very different from Stahl's, and certainly a great
deal more satisfactory ; but still the question -- What

is phlogiston ? remained to be answered.

    Mr. Kirwan attempted to answer it, and to prove
that phlogiston is no other than hydrogen.

    This opinion, which Mr. Kirwan informs us was
first suggested by the discoveries of Dr. Priestley,
met with a very favourable reception from the che
mical world, and was adopted, amongst many others,
by Mr. Cavendish. The object of Mr. Kirwan was

to prove, that hydrogen exists as a component part

of every combustible body ; that during combus
tion it separates from the combustible body, and

combines with the oxygen of the air. At the same

time, Lavoisier was engaged in examining the expe

riment of Bayen, and those of the British philoso

phers. Bayen, in 1774, had shown that mercury
converted into a calx, or earth, by the absorption of
air, could be revived without the addition of any

inflammable substance ; and hence he concluded,

that there was no necessity for supposing the exist
ence of any peculiar principle of inflammability, in
order to account for the calcination of metals ; but
he formed no opinion respecting the nature of the
air produced from the calx of mercury. Lavoisier,
in 1775, showed that it was an air, which supported

flame and respiration better than common air, which

he afterwards named oxygen : the same substance

that Priestley and Scheele had procured from other

metallic bodies the year before, and had particu

2F 2

436 THE LIFE OF

duced during the revivification of metallic calces by
charcoal, as that which is emitted during the calci
nation of limestones ; hence he concluded, that this
elastic fluid is composed of oxygen and charcoal :
and from his experiments on nitrous acid and oil of
vitriol, he also inferred that this gas entered into the
composition of these substances.

    Lavoisier was now enabled to explain the pheno
mena of combustion, without having recourse to
phlogiston : a principle merely supposed to exist,
because combustion could not be explained with

out it.
    His new theory depends upon the two laws dis

covered by himself and Dr. Black ; viz. that when a
combustible is raised to a certain temperature, it
begins to combine with the oxygen of the atmo
sphere, and that this oxygen during its condensa
tion lets go the latent caloric, and the light with
which it was combined while in the gaseous state.
Hence their appearance during every combustion.
Hence also the change which the combustible un
dergoes in consequence of combustion.

   It followed from this view, that the metallic calces

were combinations of metals with oxygen ; and on
examining the products of certain inflammable

bodies, and finding them to be acid, the conclusion

 was extended by a plausible analogy to other acids
 whose bases were unknown, and the general pro
position was established that oxygen was the uni
 versal principle of acidity ; that acids resulted from
 the union of a peculiar combustible base, called the
 radical, with the common principle, oxygen, techni
 cally termed the acidifier.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  437

   These views, regarding the phenomena of combus
tion and acidification, may be considered as consti

tuting what has been termed the Anti-phlogistic

system.

   It was some time, however, after this system was

promulgated, before its author was able to gain a

single convert, notwithstanding his unwearied assi
duity, and the great weight which his talents, his
reputation, his fortune, and his situation naturally
gave him.

  At length, M. Berthollet, at a meeting of the

Academy of Sciences in 1785, solemnly renounced

his old opinions, and declared himself a convert.

Fourcroy followed his example ; and two years after
wards Morveau, during a visit to Paris, was pre
vailed upon to embrace the new doctrine.

   The theory of Lavoisier, soon after it had been

framed, received an important confirmation from the
two grand discoveries of Mr. Cavendish, respecting
the composition of water and nitric acid, and the
elaborate and beautiful investigations of Berthollet
into the nature of ammonia ; by which, phenomena,
before anomalous, were shown to depend upon com
binations of aeriform matter.

   The notion of phlogiston, however, was still de
fended with remarkable tenacity by many distin
guished philosophers. Mr. Kirwan, who considered
hydrogen as the universal principle of combustibi
lity, undertook to prove that this element entered
into the composition of every body of the kind : a
single exception, of course, must necessarily prove
fatal to the theory. Mr. Kirwan, fortunately for

438 THE LIFE OF

inaccurate experiments of other chemists ; and thus
did he promote the popularity of the anti-phlogistic
system by the weakness of the arguments by which
he assailed it.

    Lavoisier and his associates saw at once the im
portant uses which might be made of this essay : by
refuting an hypothesis which had been embraced by
the most respectable chemists in Europe, their cause

would receive an eclat which would make it irresis
tible. The essay was accordingly translated into
French, and each of the sections into which it was

divided was accompanied by a refutation.
    Four of the sections were refuted by Lavoisier,

 three by Berthollet, three by Fourcroy, two by
Morveau, and one by Monge.

    Mr. Cavendish, in a paper communicated to the
 Royal Society in the year 1784, drew a comparison

 between the phlogistic and anti-phlogistic theories,
 and showed that each of them was capable of ex
 plaining the phenomena in a satisfactory manner ; he
 however, at the same time, gave the reasons which

 induced him to prefer the earlier view. In the exe

 cution of this task, unlike Mr. Kirwan, he never

 advanced a single opinion which he had not put to
 the test of experiment ; and he never suffered him
 self to go any farther than his experiments would
 warrant. This paper, therefore, the French chemists
 were unable to refute, and they were accordingly
 wise enough to pass it over without notice. Had it
 been possible to have preserved the phlogistic hypo

 thesis, Mr. Cavendish would have saved it--

                                  " Si Pergama dextra

                Defendi possent, etiam hie defensa fuissent."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  439

    " Sooner or later," says Sir Humphry Davy, "that
 doctrine which is an expression of facts, must pre
vail over that which is an expression of opinion.
The most important part of the theory of Lavoisier
was merely an arrangement of the facts relating
to the combinations of oxygen : the principle of

reasoning which the French school professed to

adopt was, that every body which was not yet de

compounded, should be considered as simple ; and
though mistakes were made with respect to the re
sults of experiments on the nature of bodies, yet

this logical and truly philosophical principle was not

violated; and the systematic manner in which it
was enforced was of the greatest use in promoting
the progress of science."

   Till 1786, there had been no attempt to reform

the nomenclature of chemistry; the names applied

by discoverers to the substances which they made
known were still employed. Some of these names,
which originated amongst the alchymists, were of
the most barbarous kind ; few of them were suffi

ciently definite or precise, and most of them were

founded upon loose analogies, or upon false theo

retical views.

  " It was felt by many philosophers, particularly

by the illustrious Bergman, that an improvement in

chemical nomenclature was necessary ; and in 1787,

MM. Lavoisier, Morveau, Berthollet, and Fourcroy,

presented to the world a plan for an almost entire
change in the denomination of chemical substances,
founded upon the idea of calling simple bodies by
some names characteristic of their most striking

440 THE LIFE OF

elements which composed them." There was, be
sides, a secret feeling in the breasts of the associated
chemists, which, no doubt, had its influence in sug
gesting and promoting such a scheme. The views
of Lavoisier had so changed the face of chemistry,
as almost to have rendered it a new science : by
adopting a new nomenclature, they identified, as it
were, all the discoveries of the day with the new
theory, and thus appropriated to France the origi
nal and   entire merit of the
          impossible to pass   system.    subject  without
   It is                       over this

a comment. Lavoisier was unquestionably indebt

ed to Dr. Black for the support, if not for the sug

gestion, of the most brilliant part of his theory of
combustion ; and yet he attempted even to conceal
the name of the discoverer of latent heat.

   How far Lavoisier was really culpable, and whe
ther he did not intend to do full justice to all the
claims of his predecessors, cannot now be known ; as
he was cut off in the midst of his career, while so
many of his scientific projects remained unexecuted.
From the posthumous works of Lavoisier, there is
some reason for believing that, if he had lived, he
would have done justice to all parties ; but there is
no doubt that Dr. Black, in the mean time, thought
himself aggrieved by the publication of several of
Lavoisier's papers in the "Memoires de l'Academie,"
and that he formed the intention of doing himself
justice, by publishing an account of his own disco
veries : this intention, however, was unfortunately
thwarted and prevented by bad health. But to
return to the subject of nomenclature. Sir H. Davy

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                          441

adopted in France ; under some modifications, it

was received in Germany ; and, after much discus

sion and opposition, it became the language of a

new and rising generation of chemists in England.

It materially assisted the diffusion of the anti-phlo

gistic doctrine, and even facilitated the general ac
quisition of the science ; and many of its details

were contrived with much address, and were wor

thy of its celebrated authors."

   On the general adoption of this new theory of
chemistry, it must be admitted that its authors dis

played an intemperate triumph wholly unworthy of
them. They held a festival, at which Madame La

voisier, in the habit of a priestess, burnt the works of

Stahl on an altar erected for the occasion, while so

lemn music played a requiem to his departed system !

   Sir Humphry Davy, in   "shpeeamkiunsgt  of the merits  of
Lavoisier, observes that
                                           be regarded    as

one of the most sagacious of the chemical philoso

phers of the last century; indeed, except Cavendish,

there is no other enquirer who can be compared to

him for precision of logic, extent of view, and saga
city of induction. His discoveries are few, but he

reasoned with extraordinary correctness upon the

labours of others. He introduced weight and mea

sure, and strict accuracy of manipulation into all
chemical processes. His mind was unbiassed by
prejudice ; his combinations were of the most philo

sophical nature ; and in his investigations upon pon
derable substances, he has entered the true path of

experiment with cautious steps, following just ana

logies, and measuring hypotheses by their simple

relations to facts."

442 THE LIFE OF

   It will be scarcely possible for a future generation

of philosophers to imagine with what an undisci
plined ardour the anti-phlogistic system, thus en
hanced by a new and fascinating nomenclature, was
supported throughout Europe. Facts only were
appreciated in proportion to the evidence they fur
nished of its truth ; and a discovery even required

the sanction of its authority as the passport to no
tice and regard. The least expression of doubt, as

to the validity of any point in its doctrines, exposed
the sceptic to a host of assailants, and fortunate was

he if he escaped the fate of Peter Ramus, or of

those who ventured to question the infallibility of

that great despot of another age, Aristotle.
   In no country of Europe did this feeling mani

fest itself to a greater extent than in England.

There was perhaps a political prejudice co-operating

upon the occasion : it is very difficult, under any

circumstances, to avoid connecting the man and his

works. The fate of Lavoisier* was truly affecting,

* Lavoisier perished on the scaffold at the age of fifty-one,

during the sanguinary reign of Robespierre. The fury of the re

volutionary leaders of France was particularly directed against the

farmers-general of the revenue, who were all executed, with the

exception of a single individual, a M. de Verdun. Sixty of them were

guillotined at the same time, in consequence of a report of Dupin,

a frantic member of the Convention. The revolutionary tribunal

adopted a general formula, as the ground of their condemnation,

owfhhicahvinisgcu"riaoduuslteasrataepdplisendufftowiLtahvowiasiteerr,  who was declared guilty
                                                                       and ingredients destruc

tive of the health of the citizens." The unfortunate philosopher

requested time to complete some experiments on respiration. The

reply of Coffinhal, the President, was, that " the Republic did not

want savans or chemists, and that the course of justice could not

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                         143

and by a species of retributive justice, he received
the sympathy of the world in the homage paid to
his system ; while the atrocity of his assassination,

on which every Englishman dwelt with horror,

appeared to be thus heightened by every praise be

stowed upon his merits.

  It is not the least surprising circumstance in the

history of this system, that with such a blind and
idolatrous admiration of its principles, so few facts

should have been distorted. It is true that, from

the belief that combustion could never take place
without the presence of oxygen, the elementary

principle of Scheele became, according to these
views, a compound of oxygen and an acid ; and the

name of dephlogisticated marine acid was exchanged
for that of oxymuriatic acid, a circumstance which
spread a cloud of error over the science, and perhaps
retarded its progress in a greater degree than is
generally imagined. In like manner, the chemist
neglected to avail himself of the hint which, under

other impressions, would have proved an important
clue to discovery, ens. the acid properties of sul

phuretted hydrogen.
We have now arrived at that stage in our history,

--whWenhiat tmahyaswDithavpyrodporineety  and advantage be asked
or in advancing truth ?
                                          in correcting error,

   The answer to this question will be nothing more
than a summary of those discoveries which have

been successively investigated during the progress

of the present work.
   The new doctrines of chemistry were highly in

strumental in encouraging more extended investiga

444 THE LIFE OF

tions into all the different productions of nature and

art ; and we may observe, that one of the first

efforts of Sir Humphry Davy was to improve our

knowledge of the nature and habitudes of the tan

ning and astringent principles of vegetables, --an

enquiry which had been commenced by Seguin and

Proust. In pursuing even the most beaten path,
he was sure to discover objects of novelty. Look

at his early experiments on the cane, and on the

straw of wheat, barley, and hay, and we shall see

how magically he raised from their ashes a new

flower of knowledge. He soon, however, quitted

the track of other experimentalists; although we

learn from the whole tenor of his researches, that he

could obey as well as he could command, and he

could act in the ranks, although he more frequently

appeared as a general in  the  field of science.  " at  the
   Sir Humphry Davy       has  observed, that

time when the anti-phlogistic theory was established,

electricity had little or no relation to chemistry.

The grand results of Franklin respecting the cause
of lightning, had led many philosophers to conjec

ture, that certain chemical changes in the atmo

sphere might be connected with electrical pheno

mena ; and electrical discharges had been employed

by Cavendish, Priestley, and Van-Marum, for de

composing and igniting bodies ; but it was not till

the era of the wonderful discovery of Volta, in

1800, of a new electrical apparatus, that any great

progress was made in chemical investigation by

means of electrical combinations.
   " Nothing tends so much to the advancement of

k

   SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  445

The native intellectual powers of men in different
times are not so much the causes of the different
success of their labours, as the peculiar nature of the
means and artificial resources in their possession.
Independent of vessels of glass, there could have

been no accurate manipulations in common chemis

try : the air-pump was necessary for the investiga
tion of the properties of gaseous matter ; and with
out the Voltaic apparatus, there was no possibility
of examining the relations of electrical polarities to

chemical attractions."

   There is a candour in this statement which we

cannot but admire. Nor does the admission dimi
nish the glory of him who, by the application of
such new instruments of research, was enabled to

penetrate into the hidden mysteries of Nature.
What avails the telescope, without the eye of the

observer ?

   To Davy, the Voltaic apparatus was the golden

branch, by which he subdued the spirits that had
opposed the advance of former philosophers ; but
what would its possession have availed him, had not
his genius, like the ancient Sibyl, pointed out its

use and application ?

   It will be seen that he was thus enabled, not only

to discover laws which are in constant operation,
modifying the forms of matter, and influencing all
the operations of chemistry, but, by applying them,
to determine the elements of the fixed alkalies to

be oxygen and a metallic base : a fact obviously op
posed to the idea of oxygen being the general prin

ciple of acidity ; for here it was the principle of

446 THE LIFE OF

shaking the corner-stone of the edifice, and his sub
sequent researches into the nature of oxymuriatic

acid may be said to have overthrown it ; for if either

of the elements of this body can be considered as the
acidifier, it is hydrogen. The consequences which
flowed from this truth were of the highest impor
tance, not only in correcting errors, which the pro
gress of discovery, instead of rectifying, was ac

tually multiplying, but in leading to the develope-
ment of new bodies. Iodine might have been re

cognised as an elementary body ; but its relations
to oxygen and hydrogen would probably have re
mained unknown, had not a knowledge of the true
character of chlorine assisted the enquiry.

   The same observation will apply to the recently

discovered body, Bromine. In like manner has the

chemist been led, by the chloridic theory, to a more
accurate acquaintance with the composition of the
fluoric, hydriodic, and hydrocyanic acids ; while he
has also learnt that hydrogen alone can convert cer
tain undecompounded bases into well characterised
acids, without the aid of oxygen. The same dis
covery has completely changed all our opinions with
regard to a very important series of saline combi
nations, and developed the existence of new com
pounds of a most interesting description.

   Thus, then, has the acidifying hypothesis of La

voisier been overturned, and a new theory con
structed out of its ruins, which acknowledges no
distinct element as the one imparting to matter the
characters of an acid.

   Equally complete has been the downfal of the

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  447

nature of chlorine was, in itself, sufficient to show

that bodies might combine, with the phenomena of
heat and light, without the presence of oxygen ; but
Davy has brought a mass of evidence from other
sources in proof of the same truth. He has shown
that, whenever the chemical forces which deter

mine either composition or decomposition are ener
getically exercised, the phenomena of combustion,
or incandescence, with a change of properties, are

displayed. He has therefore annulled the distinc
tion between supporters of combustion and com

bustibles, since he has shown that, in fact, one sub

stance frequently acts in both capacities, being a

supporter apparently at one time, and a combustible
at another. But in both cases the heat and light

depend on the same cause, and merely indicate the
energy and rapidity with which reciprocal attrac
tions are exerted. Thus sulphuretted hydrogen is
a combustible with oxygen and chlorine; a sup

porter with potassium. Sulphur, with chlorine and
oxygen, has been called a combustible basis ; with

metals, it acts the part of a supporter. In like

manner, potassium unites so powerfully with arsenic
and tellurium, as to produce the phenomena of com
bustion. Nor can we ascribe the appearances to the
liberation of latent heat, in consequence of conden
sation of volume. The protoxide of chlorine, a body
destitute of any combustible constituent, at the in
stant of decomposition evolves light and heat with

explosive violence ; and its volume becomes one-
fifth greater. Chloride and iodide of azote, com
pounds alike destitute of any inflammable matter,

448 THE LIFE OF

their respective elements with tremendous force of
inflammation ; and the first expands into more than
six hundred times its bulk. Now, instead of heat
and light, a prodigious degree of cold ought to
accompany such an expansion, according to the
hypothesis of latent heat. Other instances might
be cited, and other arguments adduced on the same
subject, but time and space fail me.*

   Such, then, are the facts developed by the experi
mental researches of Sir Humphry Davy ; from
which it follows, that--

    1. Combustion is not necessarily dependent on
the agency of oxygen.

   2. That it cannot be regarded as dependent upon
any peculiar principle or form of matter, but must
be considered as a general result of intense chemical

action.

    3. That the evolution of light and heat cannot be
ascribed simply to a gas parting with its latent store
of those ethereal fluids.

    4. That, since all bodies which act powerfully
upon each other are in the opposite electrical rela
tions of positive and negative, the evolution of heat
and light may depend upon the annihilation of these

opposite states, which will happen whenever they

combine.

   Thus has Sir H. Davy, by refuting the opinions
of the French philosophers, respecting the relations
of oxygen to the phenomena of combustion, and the

    * The reader who wishes for further details, will consult with
advantage the article Combustion in Dr. Ure's Dictionary of Che
mistry; a work to which I acknowledge myself much indebted on

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  449

nature of its products, removed the pillars on which

the fabric of the anti-phlogistic rested, and reduced
the generalization of Lavoisier to isolated collec

tions of facts ; the sound logic, however, -- the pure

candour, the numerical precision of inference which
characterise the labours of the French philosopher,
will cause his name to be held in everlasting admi
ration. The downfal of his doctrine is the natural

result of the progress of truth ; the same fate may

attend our present systems, but the facts discovered

through their means are unchangeable and eternal ;

and it is upon them alone that the fame of the

chemist must ultimately rest.

   In sciences collateral to chemistry, the researches
of Davy have cast a reflected lustre. In geology,

his discovery of the composition of the earths, has
opened a new path of investigation ; while his

examination of the water and gaseous matter so

frequently enclosed in the cavities of quartz, has
given no small degree of support to the hypothesis

of the Plutonists ; above all, his results connected
with the decomposition and transfer of different

elements by Voltaic influence, has already explained

many phenomena relating to metallic veins; and

the late researches of Mr. Fox must lead us to the

conclusion, that electric powers are still in operation

in the recesses of the earth ; and that mineral veins
are not only the cabinets of Nature, but still her

active laboratories.

   These cursory observations upon the discoveries

of Sir H. Davy relate merely to the changes they

have effected in the general theory of chemistry. I

might recapitulate the numerous researches by which
vol. n.
                      2 c.

450 THE LIFE OF

he has extended our knowledge upon particular sub

Ijects ; but have so fully entered into the conside

Iration of them in the body of my work, that con

sider such a tax upon the patience of my reader

Iwould be both unfair and unnecessary.
        shall therefore conclude my long and arduous
labour, by enumerating the different memoirs com
municated by this distinguished philosopher to the
Royal Society; and also the several works which
he published at different periods of his brilliant but
too fleeting career.

1. An Account of some Galvanic Combinations,

formed by single metallic plates and fluids,

analogous to the Galvanic Apparatus of M.

Volta.  Read June 1 8, 1 801 .

2. An Account of some Experiments and Observa
        tions on the constituent parts of certain Astrin

         gent Vegetables, and on their operation in

         Tanning. February 24, 1803.

3. An Account of some Analytical Experiments on

a Mineral Production from Devonshire, con

sisting principally of Alumina and Water.

        February 28, 1805.

4. On a Method of analysing Stones containing a
        fixed Alkali, by means of Boracic acid.

        May 16, 1805.

* For the above papers, the Society awarded him the
                              Copley Medal.

5. The Bakerian Lecture. -- On some Chemical

         agencies of Electricity. November 20, 1806.
** For this memoir, he received the prize of the

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.   451

6. The Bakerian Lecture. -- On some new Phe
        nomena of Chemical Changes produced by

         Electricity, particularly the Decomposition of
         the Fixed Alkalies, and the exhibition of the

         new substances which constitute their bases ;

        and on the general nature of Alkaline bodies.

                     Read November 19, 1807.

7. Electro-chemical Researches on the Decomposi

tion of the Earths ; with Observations on the

Metals obtained from the Alkaline Earths;

and on the Amalgam procured from Am

monia.   June 30, 1808.

8. The Bakerian Lecture. --An Account of

some new Analytical Researches on the na
ture of certain bodies, particularly the Alka

lies, Phosphorus, Sulphur, Carbonaceous mat
ter, and the Acids hitherto uncompounded ;

with some general Observations on Chemical

Theory.  December 15, 1808.

9. New Analytical Researches on the nature of
         certain bodies; being an Appendix to the
         Bakerian Lecture for 1808.

                              February 1809.

10. The Bakerian Lecture for 1809. On some

         new Electro-chemical Researches on various

         objects, particularly the metallic bodies from
         the Alkalies and Earths; and on some combi
         nations of Hydrogen.

                            November 16, 1809.

11. Researches on the Oxy-muriatic Acid, its na
          ture and combinations ; and on the elements
        of Muriatic Acid ; with some Experiments on

                                           2G2

452 THE LIFE OF

         Sulphur and Phosphorus, made in the Labo
         ratory of the Royal Institution.

                      Read July 12, 1810.

12. The Bakerian Lecture for 1810. On some

        of the Combinations of Oxy-muriatic Gas and
        Oxygen, and on the chemical relations of

         those principles to inflammable bodies.

                            November 15, 1810.

13. On a Combination of Oxy-muriatic          Gas and
          Oxygen Gas.
                          February 21, 1811.

14. On some Combinations of Phosphorus and Sul
         phur, and on some other subjects of Chemical
         Enquiry. June 18, 1812.

15. On a new Detonating Compound ; in a letter to

        Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. F.R.S.

                             November 5, 1812.

16. Some further Observations on a new Detonating

        substance. July 1, 1813.

17. Some Experiments and Observations on the
         Substances produced in different chemical

        processes on Fluor Spar.
                          July 8, 1813.

18. An Account of some New Experiments on the

         Fluoric Compounds ; with some Observations
         on other objects of Chemical Enquiry.

                          February 13, 1814.

19. Some Experiments and Observations on a new
          Substance, which becomes a Violet-coloured

          Gas by heat.
                        January 20, 1814.

SIR IIUiMPHRY DAVY.  453

20. Further Experiments and Observations on
         Iodine. Read June 16, 1814.

21. Some Experiments on the Combustion of the
         Diamond, and other Carbonaceous Substances.
                           June 23, 1814.

22. Some Experiments and Observations on the
         Colours used in Painting by the Ancients.
                          February 23, 1815.

23. Some Experiments on a solid Compound of
          Iodine and Oxygen, and on its Chemical
        Agencies. April 20, 1815.

24. On the Action of Acid upon the Salts usually

         called Hyper -Oxy muriates, and on the Gases
          produced from them.

                            May 4, 1815.
25. On the Fire-damp of Coal Mines, and on

         methods of lighting the Mine, so as to pre

          vent Explosion.
                            November 19, 1815.

26. An Account of an Invention for giving Light
         in Explosive Mixtures of Fire-damp in Coal

          Mines, by consuming the Fire-damp.
                         January 11, 1816.

27. Further Experiments on the Combustion of
        Explosive Mixtures confined by Wire Gauze,
         with some Observations on Flame.

454 THE LIFE OF

         an account of a method of preserving a con
        tinued Light in Mixtures of inflammable
        Gases and Air, without Flame.

                    Read January 23, 1817.
* * * For the preceding Jive papers, the Rumford

                     Medals were awarded to him.

30. On the fallacy of Experiments in which Water
         is said to have been formed by the decompo
         sition of Chlorine.

                          February 12, 1818.

31. New Experiments on some of the combinations
         of Phosphorus.
                         April 9, 1818.

32. Some Observations on the formation of Mists in
         particular situations.

                             February 25, 1819.

33. On the Magnetic Phenomena                   produced  by
         Electricity.

                            November 16, 1820.

34. Some Observations and Experiments on the
         Papyri found in the ruins of Herculaneum.
                          March 15, 1821.

35. Further Researches on the Magnetic Pheno
        mena produced by Electricity ; with some
        new Experiments on the properties of Elec
         trified bodies, in their relations to conducting

          powers and temperature.

                          July 5, 1821.

36. On the Electrical Phenomena exhibited in vacuo.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  455

37. On the state of Water and Aeriform matter in
         cavities found in certain Crystals.
                           Read June 13, 1822.

38. On a new Phenomenon of Electro-Magnetism.
                           March 6, 1823.

39. On the application of Liquids formed by the
         condensation of Gases, as mechanical Agents.
                           April 17, 1823.

40. On the changes of volume produced in Gases,
         in different states of density, by Heat.
                            May 1, 1823.

41. On the Corrosion of Copper Sheathing by sea-
         water ; and on methods of preventing this
         effect, and on their application to ships of war
         and other ships. Jan. 24, 1824.

42. Additional Experiments and Observations on
         the application of Electrical Combinations to
         the preservation of the Copper Sheathing of
         ships, and to other purposes.
                             June 17, 1824.

43. Further Researches on the preservation of Me
         tals by Electro-chemical means.

                            June 9, 1825.

44. The Bakerian Lecture for 1826.-- On the

         Relation of Electrical and Chemical changes.
                            June 3, 1826.

* * * * For this memoir, the Royal Society conferred
                    upon him the Royal Medal.

45. On the Phenomena of Volcanoes.
                         March 20, 1828.

46. Account of some Experiments on the Torpedo.

                            November 20, 1828.

456 LIFE OF SIR H. DAVY.

                  HIS PUBLISHED WORKS ARE,

   " Experimental Essays on Heat, Light, and on
the Combinations of Light, with a new Theory of
Respiration," &c. Published in Contributions to Phy
sical and Medical Knowledge, by T. Beddoes, M. D.

1799.

   " Researches Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly
concerning Nitrous Oxide, and its Respiration."

1800.

  " A Syllabus of a Course of Lectures."

   " An Introductory Lecture." 1801.
   " Elements of Chemical Philosophy." 1812.
   " Elements of Agricultural Chemistry." 1813.
   " On the Safety Lamp for Coal Miners ; with
some Researches on Flame." 1818. (Several Edi

tions.)

   " Salmonia ; or Days of Fly-Fishing."
   " Consolations in Travel ; or the Last Days of a
Philosopher."

APPENDIX.


APPENDIX.

EXTRACTED FROM THE REGISTRY OF THE PREROGA
                    TIVE COURT OF CANTERBURY.

       A.

MY WILL.

  I IThis 3rd of January 1827 feeling more than usual symp

toms of mortality make this my Will. First, give my
Brother John Davy M.D. three hundred pounds a-year of

Imoney that possess in the Long Annuities and likewise four
Ithousand pounds to be raised by the sale of Securities pos
Isess in the English or French funds or annuities but mean

my said Brother to devote the interest of three thousand

pound of these last moneys to such purposes as he may deem

Ifitting for the benefit of my sisters particularly my married

one and wish a part of the interest of these three thousand

Ipounds to be employed in educating and settling in life my
godson Humphrey Millett.  leave him Dr. Davy likewise

all the property devolving to me from my parents which has

never been divided to do what seems to him best for the

Ibenefit of my sisters and my sister Millett,s children and

leave my said brother my Chemical Books and Chemical

MSS. Apparatus Sporting tackle Medals and the silver Vene

tian dish made from the Rumford Medal in token of my affec

tion. I leave 100 to each of these friends Dr. Babington

and Dr. Franck and 50 to Dr. Wilson Philip and to Mr.

460 APPENDIX.

all my other property whether in goods money chattells

funded securities annuities or plate to my wife (Lady) Jane

IDavy and appoint her the sole Executrix of this my Will.
If my brother or his family should not be in a condition at

the time of her decease to use my service of plate given for the

Isafety lamp wish it to be sold and the same given to the

Royal Society to provide an annual medal from the interest

for the best discovery made any where in chemistry and I

depend upon my dear wife to make such presents in seals or

token to such of my friends as she may think proper agree

ably to their and her feelings.      H. Davy.

                                 B.

                    Further explanatory Clause.

I leave to my wife Dame Jane Davy all my other property
whether funded or in government securities or in leases of
Ihouses or goods &c. and leave her my sole residuary legatee
Iand sole Executrix.
                      wish her to enjoy the use of my plate

during her life and that she will leave it to my brother in case

he survive her and if not to any child of his who may be

Icapable of using it but if he be not in a situation to use or

enjoy it then wish it to be melted and given to the Royal
Society to found a medal to be given annually for the most

important discovery in Chemistry any where made in Europe

or Anglo-America. Knowing the perfect understanding and

Ilove of justice of my wife leave to her all other arrange

Iments which may make my memory useful to the world and

awaken the kind feelings of my friends and wish her and

my brother and all my friends every happiness this life can

afford.                              Humphry Davy.

                                               C.

           That is a Clause explanatory of my Will.

  I wish seals not rings with a fish engraved upon them to

Ibe given to some of my friends amongst whom mention Mr

APPENDIX.                                              461

there should be any doubt respecting the i?3000 mentioned

I mean my brother to be a trustee for this and should he die
without children I mean it to belong to my sister Millett's

children 2000 to Humphry Millett my godson and the rest
to be equally divided between the other children but should

Imy brother marry and have children then mean after the

death of my sisters these .3000 to be divided between her

child or children and my sisters and 1000 to go to Hum
phry Millett my godson and 500 to my sister's other chil

dren leaving the arrangement to my brother.
                                                                             H. D.

D.

I Further explanatory Clause, Feb. 27th 1828.

  leave to my brother John Davy M.D. the proceeds of my

Agricultural Chemistry in the future editions and the profits
I Iof my work on fishing and give him the copyright.
                                                       leave

my friend Thomas Poole Esq. of Stowey fifty pounds to pur

chase some token of remembrance.

                                                    H. D.

                                               Rome Nov. 18th, 1828.

By this addition to my will I confirm all that I have willed

in a paper left in a brass box at Messrs. Drummond leaving

Lady Davy my sole Executrix and residuary legatee. I

leave the copyright of Salmonia to my brother John Davy

wishing him to apply a part of the profits of the sale of the

editions of this work to the education of my nephew Hum
Iphrey Millett in case he has no children of his own.
                                                       leave

the copy of my Vision in my writing desk to Lady Davy to
Ibe published if my friends think it may give pleasure or in

formation to the public but wish the profits of this work to
Ibe applied to the use of my brothers and sisters.
                                                    leave to

Josephine Detela daughter of Mr. Detela of Laybach in Illy-

ria innkeeper my kind and affectionate nurse one hundred

pounds or rather a sum which shall equal a thousand florins

APPENDIX.

Imonths after my decease.      beg Lady Davy to be so good

as to fulfill my engagements with the persons who are travel

ling with me but without any favour as I have no reason to

praise either their attention or civilities within the last two
months but the kindness and attentions of Josephine Detela

Iduring my illness at Laybach not only calls for the testimony
  have given but likewise my gratitude for which I give her

the ^100 or the 1000 florins.  H. Davy.

                                                                     Feb. 19th 1829.

  I Iwish to be buried where die natura curat suas reliquias.
I Iwish 100 to be given to George Whidby and beg Lady
IDavy to fulfill all my engagements and that if my friends

should think my Dialogues worthy of publication beg that
they may be published and that Mr. Tobin may correct the

Ipress of them and wish that 150 may be given to him for

this labour. There is a codicil to my will in my writing desk.

I beg Lady Davy to have the goodness to attend to every
Ithing mentioned in that. In addition to what have men
Itioned in that codicil request that 50 or 500 florins may

be given to Josephine Dettela within five months after my

Idecease and wish 50 to be presented to my friend Dr Mo-

richini in remembrance and memory of his great kindness

to me.

                                                                 H.D.

  I wish one hundred to be given to my amanuensis.

  For the purpose of explaining a Will that I made before
I Ileft England and some papers that have since added to it

I write these few words Rome, March 18, 1829.
  I give the copyright of Salmonia my Dialogues and any

other of my works which my friends may think it proper to

Irepublish to my brother John Davy M.D. to be published
in the manner he may think most fit and proper.  have

already in my former testament left Lady Davy my residuary

APPENDIX.                                463

property to regard i?6000 as belonging to my brother Dr.

Davy in case there rests any doubt upon this subject in my

first will and I wish her the said Lady Davy to enjoy during

her life the use and property of the different services of plate

Igiven to me whether by the Emperor of Russia or the dif

ferent coal committees but trust to her sense of justice that

Ishe will leave them in the manner have pointed out in my

will to my brother. With respect to any property at present

I Iin my banker's hands or any thing now carry with me

leave them entirely to my brother Dr. Davy.
                                                     Humphry Davy.

   At Rome March 18, 1829-

THE END.

                      LONDON :

PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY,

           Dorset Strtrt, Fleet Street.

