MEMOIR

                                           OF THE

LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES

                                                                           OP

SIR THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES,

                                                       F.R.S., &c. See.

           PARTICULARLY IN THE GOVERNMENT OF
                JAVA, 1811-1816, BENCOOLEN AND ITS
                          DEPENDENCIES, 1817-1824;

                                                              WITH

 DETAILS OF THE COMMERCE AND RESOURCES OF
                THE EASTERN ARCHIPELAGO,

                                                                         AND

            SELECTIONS FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE.

BY HIS WIDOW.

>Ma. P         ,

A NEW EDITION, IN TWO VOLUMES.
                    VOL. I.

                     LONDON:
JAMES DUNCAN, 37, PATERNOSTER-ROW.

                                    MDCCCXXXV.

                               LONDON :
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,

                                                             TO

                               HIS EXCELLENCY

       THE CHEVALIER BUNSEN,

MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY OF HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF
                                  PRUSSIA AT ROME.

   My dear Mr. Bunsen,

         IYou will, hope, pardon my indulging myself in

the pleasure of dedicating to you this abridgment. It is

Ithe result of your encouragement and advice, which

have followed, except on one point ; and on that it will be

I Ia sufficient excuse to you, to say that found could not

                   it,
                                         is

                                                      is
enlarge more upon  without drawing aside too far the

veil from that domestic altar which, to all who have been

admitted to its highest and holiest duties, very sacred.
   That God may long continue you in your sphere of

usefulness, blessed and blessing, the constant and fer

vent prayer of
                    Your affectionate and faithful friend,

                           Sophia Raffles.

High Wood, June 16, 1835.

22-1993


                 NOTICE.

The Editor of the " Memoir of the Life and Services of

Sir Stamford Raffles" feels that some explanation is re
quired of the principle on which the present Edition is

arranged.

   Her object has been to omit all those documents and
statements which, though necessary to be printed in the
first instance, in order to do justice to the public character
of her husband, are yet an incumbrance to the book as a
work of Literature.

    The exertions of Sir Stamford to promote the honour
of his country can only be duly appreciated by those who
know the peculiar difficulties with which he had to con
tend: these it would have been impossible on several
occasions to detail, without reflecting on individuals,
many of whom are now no more.

    The Editor is not conscious of having withheld any
 thing from personal considerations to Sir Stamford. She
 has only to hope, that this effort to diffuse more widely
 the example of her husband's character, may be made the
 means of encouraging a spirit of true patriotism in the
 cultivation and exercise, for the good of others, of two of
 God's best gifts --Time and Talents.


   CONTENTS.

   CHAPTER I.      pagb

Early Life of Mr. Raffles -- Labours and relaxations-- First tastes
-- Appointment under the new Government of Penang--Duties
there -- Goes to Malacca for his health --Malay literature --Paper

on the Malayan nation --Woolly-haired people scattered among

them -- Game of chess-- Orders for the destruction of Malacca

-- Countermanded on his representation -- Native account of

the Portuguese arrival at Malacca -- The Dutch-- Letter from
.1Dr. Ley den.
.  . ".         .

   CHAPTER II.

Mr. Raffles proceeds to Calcutta--Proposes expedition to Java --

Lord Minto appoints him agent to collect information on the

subject-- Instructions of the Court of Directors to expel the
French, and to give up the Island to the Natives --Conse
quences of such a measure --Lord Minto objects to it -- Deter
mines to proceed in person to Java --Letters of Dr. Leyden --
His account of an excursion in the Malay Peninsula-- Mr.

Raffles reports to Lord Minto the result of his inquiries re
J .43specting ava, &C.
   . ..

   CHAPTER HI.

Account of the Eastern Islands--Products of Borneo -- Settle
   ments of Europeans in the Island --Celebes --Traffic in slaves

   -- Policy of the Dutch, different policy of the English-- Dutch
   factory at Japan --Trade with--Views connected with the ac
   quisition of Java-- Countries from the Bay of Bengal to New
   Holland --Proposed policy, chain of posts-- Chinese in Java --
   Monopoly of farms, &c. -- Arabs, use they make of their reli

   gion -- Americans, regulation of trade-- Dutch orders respecting

trade and navigation-- Means taken to keep up their monopoly

of spice-- Cause of the failure of their trading ports -- Former
policy of the English objected to--Neglect of the British Go-

VIU CONTENTS.

                                                                                                           PACK

   vernment -- Dutch views of Colonies -- Causes of deterioration .
   of Malay character -- Piracy-- Laws-- Slavery, sources of, in the
   Malay countries -- Laws, want of-- Propagation of Christianity
   --Advantages likely to accrue to the British nation from the

   acquisition of Java and the Eastern Isles . . 54

CHAPTER IV.

Lord Minto's great anxiety as to the passage from Malacca to
   Batavia --Naval men opposed to Mr. Raffles -- Lord Minto con
   fides in Mr. Raffles --New passage attempted --Arrival off Ba
   tavia --Mr. Raffles gives a sketch of the events which led to

   his being employed in the expedition -- Establishment of the

   French power in Java -- Sir Samuel Achmuty's account of the

capture of Batavia, and of the battle of Cornelis -- Capitulation
of the Island --Intercepted letters from Governor Jansens --

Lord Minto's opinion of the value of the conquest-- Death of

Dr. Leyden --Lord Minto places Mr. Raffles in the government

of Java -- Leading principles of the Dutch Government --Pro
jected change of system --English Residents appointed at the
Native Courts --Ancient temples --First Colony of Hindus --

Upas poison -- Journey to the Eastern district  .                .110

CHAPTER V.

Expedition to Palembang-- Arrival of the troops-- Gallantry of

the attack -- Horrors of the scene -- Colonel Gillespie's account

of the Sultan --Measures adopted by Colonel Gillespie -- Sultan

of Djocjocarta -- Mr. Raffles collects troops, and proceeds to
Samarang -- Account of treaties with the Sultan -- General
confederacy of the Native States --Unexpected and fortunate

return of Colonel Gillespie -- Assault and capture of Riots

jocarta -- European power first paramount in Java ·.             .155

                               CHAPTER VI.

Difference of opinion between Colonel Gillespie and Mr. Raffles
   -- Re-establishment of Society of Arts --Importance of con

   nexion between Java and China to the East India Company's
   interests -- Consequence of a King's government upon their
  monopoly -- Lord Minto's anxiety to provide for Mr. Raffles, in
   the prospect of the Island being transferred to the Crown--

         CONTENTS.                                                     ix

                                                                  PAGE

Lord Minto's approval of the measures of government-- Calling
in depreciated paper -- Promise of an official approbation -- Ac
count of the Colonies-- Depreciated state of paper currency-
Want of specie-- Land rental --Revenues of government -- Pro
posed literary work -- Lord Minto's return to England --His last
                                                                  .190
letter on leaving Calcutta-- Expedition to Sambas  .

         CHAPTER VII.

General Nightingall appointed to relieve General Gillespie --
   General Gillespie brings charges against Mr. Raffles -- De
   cision of the Court of Directors on them --Ancient characters
   on stones from the temples --Establishment of the improved
   system of government --Principles on which it was founded --
   Institutions of Majapahit, his division of society into classes--

Mr. Raffles' reasons for introducing the change in the tenure
of the land -- His anxiety and fatigue during its progress -- Sup
port of General Nightingall --Eventual fate of Java -- Hesita

tion of supreme government to give any rule for the guidance

of the government -- Forced to act in every measure of im

portance, in consequence, on his own responsibility -- Suppres

sion of piracy -- Slave-trade declared to be felony, by a Colonial

Law -- Can only be repealed by the mother country -- Leading
inhabitants concur, and registered their slaves--Mission to

Japan -- Opening of trade with it-- Disapproved by the Bengal
Government --Approved by the Court of Directors
                                                      . . 209

         CHAPTER VIII.

Domestic afflictions --Tour of the Island for the benefit of his
   health -- Native companions --Malay character --Origin of their
   race-- Their literature -- Civilization -- The Moluccas -- Celebes
   --Expedition to Bali and Macassar -- People of Bali-- Castes --
   Funeral ceremonies --Wives burning--Account of eruption of
   Tomboro Mountain-- Prospects of the restoration of Java to the

   Dutch -- Letter to Lord Buckingham on advantages of retain
   ing it--Value of the Moluccas --Banca -- Character of the East
   insular tribes-- New government proposed for Java --Merits of

the individuals employed -- His own labours -- Javanese lan
guage -- Ancient sculpture and remains-- intention to write the
History of Java -- Review of his administration in Java-- Close

of it    . . q . . 255

VoL. i.  b

X CONTENTS.

                                                                     PAGE

                  CHAPTER IX.

Mr. Raffles hears he is to be relieved in the government -- Resi

   dency of Bencoolen secured to him -- Forced to return to Eng
   land by ill health-- Arrival of Mr. Fendall--Reception of him

   -- General regret at Mr. Raffles' departure -- Presentation of

.....plate--Endeavours by a last memorial to secure justice to the

   native princes and people --The objects of their treaties with

   the English-- Objects neglected by the English Government --
· Island restored without conditions to the Dutch -- Embarkation

   -- State of mind on quitting Java --Extract from Captain Tra-
   vers' Journal during the voyage-- St. Helena--Interview with
   Buonaparte --Arrival at Falmouth--Mines in Cornwall --Jour
ney to London                                                        293

                  CHAPTER X.

Mr. Raffles appeals to the Court of Directors-- Writes his His
   tory of Java-- Princess Charlotte --Visits the Continent -- Medi

tates the establishment of a Society on the principle of the
Jardin des Plantes -- Is appointed Lieutenant-Governor of

Bencoolen and its dependencies -- Embarks for India -- Death of

Princess Charlotte -- Arrival in Sumatra -- Description of the
Settlement -- Dispute with the Dutch Government -- Earth
quakes -- State of Bencoolen -- His habits of intercourse with

the Natives    .  .           .              .                       .318

                  CHAPTER XI.

Sir Stamford Raffles determines to penetrate into the interior of

  the country -- First excursion to the Hill of Mists -- Account of
  journey to Passumah --Discovery of gigantic flower -- Vegeta

   tion of Malayan Forests -- Reason for visiting Passumah --
   Ceremony of a funeral -- Traces of ancient Hindu mythology --
   Description of the people -- Small-pox -- Fatigue of the journey
  -- Descends on rafts -- Return to Manna -- Proceeds to Cawoor --

  Success of first attempt to cross the Island of Sumatra -- Ex

  tract from Mr. Presgrave's Journal -- Description of the Sacred
  Mountain-- Disappointment in not reaching the crater -- Re
  turn to Manna --Mountain's temperature-- Large lake -- Suf

ferings of the people for want of salt, prohibited by the Dutch
Government --People of Passumah Lebar -- Descendants of the

Javanese-- Villages -- Language -- Religion  .  .337

CONTENTS.

              PAGE

CHAPTER XII.

Sir Stamford Raffles at Bencoolen-- Proceeds to Padang --Is
   anxious to go to Menangkabu -- Considered impracticable
   "-- Dangers represented -- Determines to make the attempt --
   Difficulty of the road -- Beauty of the country --Course up the

   river -- Thermometer -- Height of the mountain -- Description of

   the Tiga Blas country and people-- Cattle -- Horses-- Clothing
   of the people --Houses -- View of the Lake of Sincara -- De

   scription of it-- Town of Simawang-- Country compared to that

   of Java -- Arrival at Suruasa -- Discovery of an inscription in

   the Kawi character -- Description of Menangkabu -- Hindu
  image similar to those of Java-- Height of the city --Return to
   the Lake -- Description of crossing it --Minerals -- Vegetables
   -- Agriculture -- Return to Bencoolen-- Death of Dr. Arnold . 385

ILLUSTRATIONS.

                     VOL. I.

Portrait                       to face Title.
Rafflesia Arnold!
                                                 343
Fac Simile
Map of Singapore     VOL. II.
Eastern Archipelago
                               to face Title.

                                                                                               16

                     . at the end of second Volume.

   The Plate of Sir Stamford's journey into the interior of
Sumatra has been unfortunately lost, but all the places he
visited will be found in the large map of Sumatra arranged
by him, and published after his death by Mr. Gardner, 163,
Regent Street.

               MEMOIR

                                                        or

SIR THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES, F.R.S.

                       CHAPTER I.

Early Life of Mr. Raffles -- Labours and relaxations -- First tastes --
   Appointment under the new Government of Penang -- Duties
  there -- Goes to Malacca for his health --Malay literature -- Paper
   on the Malayan nation-- Woolly-haired people scattered among
  them-- Game of chess -- Orders for the destruction of Malacca --
   Countermanded on his representation-- Native account of the
   Portuguese arrival at Malacca-- The Dutch-- Letter from Dr.

   Leyden.

Thomas Stamford Raffles was born at sea, on board

the ship Ann, off the harbour of Port Morant, in the island

of Jamaica, July 5, 1781. He was the only surviving son

of Benjamin Raffles, one of the oldest captains in the
West India trade, out of the Port of London. His pater

nal grandfather held a situation in the Prerogative Office,

Doctors' Commons, with unblemished reputation, for a

long course of years.

Little beyond this is known of his family. The name

frequently occurs in the oldest registers at Beverley, in
Yorkshire, both in those of the Minster and St. Mary's

VOL. I.                            b

2 EARLY LIFE.

church, from which it appears, that three centuries ago his
ancestors resided there, and of one of them it is recorded

that he died during his mayoralty in that borough. From
thence it is believed they removed to Berwick upon

Tweed ; and at length, in the time of Mr. Raffles' s great
grandfather, to London.

Mr. Raffles was baptized at Eaton Bishop, in Here

fordshire, whilst his mother was on a visit to the Reverend

John Lindeman, her brother, who was at that time the

incumbent of the living.

   The object of biography is to enable those who are
occupied in the active bustle of this world's duties, to

benefit by the experience of the traveller who has finished

his course ; and though the early habits of children may
be interesting to the curious observer of human nature,

they are of but little use to the reader who has already

passed through this stage of trial.                   It is
   For this reason all such details are passed over.

sufficient to notice, that in his childhood and early youth,

he displayed a thoughtfulness, and a closeness of applica
tion above his years, and which many of his friends now
remember as the first indications of that vigour of mind,
and that devotion to whatever demanded the exertion of

his powers, by which in after life he was so eminently dis

tinguished.

He was placed at an early age with Dr. Anderson,

who for many years kept a respectable academy at Ham
mersmith. But when fourteen, he was removed from that

               EARLY LIFE.

seminary, and placed as an extra clerk in the East India
House. The disadvantages which he suffered from this

removal he deeply felt, and never failed to deplore. Re

ferring to this period of his life, in a letter written

many years after to his cousin, the Reverend Dr. Raffles,

he says, "With regard to the attention which may be

considered to have been paid by me to objects of a still

more general and interesting nature, whether literary,

Iscientific, or benevolent -- have only a few words to say.

The deficiency of my early education has never been fully

Isupplied ; and have never ceased to deplore the neces

Isity which withdrew me so early from school.  had

Ihardly been two years at a boarding-school, when was

withdrawn, and forced to enter on the busy scenes of

public life, then a mere boy. My leisure hours, however,

still continued to be devoted to favourite studies; and

Iwith the little aid my allowances afforded, contrived to

make myself master of the French language, and to pro
secute inquiries into some of the branches of literature

and science ; this was, however, in stolen moments, either

before the office hours in the morning, or after them in

Ithe evening.  look back to these days of difficulty and

I Iapplication with some degree of pleasure.
                                         feel that

I Idid all that could, and have nothing to reproach myself

with.

"This statement will account for my deficiencies in

Ieducation : and all ever presumed to consider myself

twas -- a lover and admirer of all that  could reach in

                                         b2

4 EARLY LIFE.

literature and science. The varied, important, and in
cessant duties of my public life have always deprived me

Iof that calm and retirement which have desired, and to
which alone I look as the ultimate end of my ambition on

earth. To qualify myself for the enjoyment of such a

I Istate, omit no opportunity. The high stations which

have held, have enabled me to foster and encourage the

Ipursuits of others ; and if have any merit, it has

rather been as the patron of science, than in any other

capacity."

   He then proceeds to a rapid enumeration of his various
labours and productions of a literary and scientific nature,
which will be more appropriately noticed in subsequent
portions of these pages. They are for the most part

already before the world ; and they have obtained for him
a far higher rank, even amongst men of letters and of
science, than that to which his own modesty allowed him

to aspire.

   How often do the young, and careless, and prosperous,
neglect the opportunities of improvement afforded them !
how many sluggishly, with lazy attention slumber through
their hours of study !--Let such pause for a moment, and
contemplate the thirst after knowledge, the industry and
ardour with which a boy of fourteen must have been en
dued, who, after being the whole of the day at the desk
of his labour, and occupied in copying papers of no great
interest at his age, or perhaps any age, could thus devote
his hours of recreation to the study of languages, and the

EARLY LIFE.  5

cultivation of those talents he felt that God had endowed

him with.
   Thus chained down, his heart yearned for an atmo

sphere more congenial to its feelings ; his master mind
soon burst its shackles, and with a high and noble resolve
to devote itself to the good of others, attained the station
for which it felt itself best fitted.

   During the period that he remained in the office, he
worked early and late ; he studied, as he himself says, in
stolen moments : by his extra labour at his office he ob
tained an addition to his salary, which was not appro
priated to any selfish purpose ; but all he earned was
carried home to his parents, as they were at this time in
difficulties. His affection to his mother was always one

of the strongest feelings of his heart. At this time, with

that self-denying devotion to the happiness of others,
which was his distinguishing quality through life, he de
prived himself of every indulgence, that he might devote
to her his hard-earned pittance : and in after-days of
comparative affluence he delighted in surrounding her
with every comfort.

   Such a sedentary life of labour was, however, ill adapted
to the delicacy of his frame ; and it was feared that
symptoms of consumption were becoming confirmed : he

was ordered to relax his exertions, and to leave his office
for a time ; he obeyed, and obtained a fortnight's leave of
absence. The use which he made of this short period of
recreation is very characteristic : he seized on the moment

EARLY LIFE.

to indulge that love of mountain scenery so strong in
most youthful minds, so happily undying and unfading

in its exciting joyous feeling. He resolved to go into
Wales, set off on foot, and walked at the rate of thirty

and forty miles a day, accomplished his object, and re

turned to his desk with restored health. As a school-boy,

his garden was his delight : to this was added a love of

animals, which was perhaps unequalled. It has been

observed, that it is one of the characteristic properties of

a great mind, that it can contract as well as dilate itself ;

and the mind which cannot do both is not great in its
full extent : this observation was forcibly realised in him ;

he spent hours in fondling and domesticating those objects

of his care and attention. He entered with the most

child-like simplicity into occupations and pleasures which

many would consider beneath their notice : a mountain-

scene would bring tears into his eyes; a flower would
call forth a burst of favourite poetry ; it was perhaps

peculiar to himself to be able to remark on his last return

to England, that he had never seen a horse-race, never

fired a gun.                                         He

   His facility in acquiring languages was extreme.

made himself master of French, with scarcely any assist
ance, on his first going into the India House ; and as he

never forgot any thing which he had once attained, he

always continued to speak this language with great

fluency, though he had little opportunity of practice. As

an instance, in the year 1818, during his government in

EARLY LIFE.  7

Sumatra, a lady was singing in his house one of Moore's
Melodies, " Rich and rare were the gems she wore," when

some French gentlemen present regretted that the beauties
which he was so admiring were lost to them : he imme
diately translated the whole into French verse, much to
the surprise of all present.

   His taste for drawing was shown at an early age, though
he never had leisure to indulge it as he wished. In
music, he was always fonder of melody than of harmony ;

perhaps because he did not sufficiently cultivate this

delightful science.

   His studies, from his facility of acquirement, were de

sultory ; but he was always acquiring something, and was

never for one moment unoccupied : later in life, if obliged

by illness to relinquish his occupations, he covered his
couch with papers on the first cessation of pain, and was
immediately engaged, either in reading or dictating.

   Little is known of his religious feelings on first entering
the world. Early religious instruction was not then,
perhaps, so general as at present, and he was not one of
the happy few who received it ; but, as he advanced in
life, prosperity warmed his heart towards the God who
led him forward in his course of usefulness; adversity
taught him to look to another state of being for the
happiness which he felt himself capable of enjoying:

perhaps his most prominent feelings on this subject were
humility and faith. From his first setting out in life, he
gave the praise to God for all the blessings which he

8 HIS APPOINTMENT TO PENANG.

enjoyed, and was deeply impressed with a sense of his
own unworthiness. He constantly mourned over his own
weakness, and deplored his want of power to do that
which he felt he ought to do, and his failure in the per
formance of every duty : from the earliest period he
acquiesced in every privation, as the wise purpose of an
Almighty Father working for His own glory, which,
though mysterious to the limits of man's understanding,
would be brightly and clearly known hereafter.

   Beginning life under the influence of such principles
and feelings, it will not be matter of surprise that his own
exertions proved his best patron, and procured him friends,
whose good opinion was at once honourable to his talents,
and favourable to his advancement. Such friends, at a
very early period of his connexion with the East India
House, he had obtained : for a vacancy having occurred
in the establishment, his peculiar qualifications were
allowed to secure his accession to it, notwithstanding the
claims of others, who possessed an interest of which he
could not boast.

   The Court of Directors in 1805 determined on sending
out an establishment to Penang. India seemed to open
before him the field for which his ambition panted ; and
when the appointments for the new government were
arranged, Mr. Ramsay, then secretary to the Court of
Directors, aware of the peculiar fitness and talents of
Mr. Raffles for office, named him to Sir Hugh Inglis,
who, from this strong recommendation, and also a dis

ARRIVAL AT PENANG.  9

covery of extraordinary qualifications, gave him the ap

pointment of Assistant Secretary, and ever afterwards

watched his progress through life with the deepest interest

for his success. Mr. Ramsay, in performing this generous
act, expressed his feeling in the strongest terms that,
although in parting with so useful an assistant in his de

partment, he should suffer the greatest inconvenience;
that it was like the loss of a limb to him ; yet he felt bound
to further the views and promotion in life of one who
possessed strong claims from such superior talents and
amiable private character. This appointment must, in
recollection, when a few short years had passed, have
been as gratifying to the patron as it had already proved

honourable to Mr. Raffles, and important to the service of

the East India Company. It is not necessary to enter

here into the reasons which induced the Court of Directors
 to form this settlement, particularly as not one of their
 high-raised expectations was realized; experience soon
 proved that the place was unfavourably situated to attract
 either the European or the Indian trader ; and high duties
 checked the natives whom the hope of gain had induced
 to leave their beaten track.

    In the month of September, 1805, Mr. Raffles arrived
 at Penang, in the Company's ship Ganges, which was com
 manded by Captain Harrington, a brother of the late
 member of council in Bengal. The progress which he

 had made in the Malayan language, during his voyage,
 enabled him to enter with efficiency on the duties of his

10 ARRIVAL AT PENANG.

office as soon as he arrived. It gave to him those mani

fest advantages which an enlightened man, on his intro

duction to so interesting a people, must derive from the
immediate interchange of ideas and feelings, and pro
cured him the marked approbation of the Court of

Directors.

   The previous insight which he had acquired into the
mode of preparing and arranging public records and pro
ceedings, rendered his services in the formation of a new
establishment highly valuable : but whilst he zealously
devoted himself to the discharge of public duties, which,
by the illness of the secretary, Mr. Pearson, were rendered
unusually laborious, he still found time to pursue the study
of the Eastern languages, and to prosecute his researches
into his favourite science of natural history.

   An extract from the journal of Captain Travers thus

Idescribes him at this period : " It was in the year 1806

first became acquainted with Mr. Raffles, at the Island of
Penang. He was then deputy-secretary to the new go

vernment, which had been recently sent out to that place.

At this time, which was soon after his arrival, he had ac

quired a perfect knowledge of the Malay language, which
he had studied on the voyage out, and was able to write
and speak fluently. The details of the government pro
ceedings, as far as related to local arrangements and regu
lations, together with the compilation of almost every
public document, devolved on Mr. Raffles, who possessed
great quickness and facility in conducting and arranging

ARRIVAL AT FENANG.  11

the forms of a new government, as well as in drawing up

and keeping the records.

   " The public despatches were also entrusted to him ;

and, in fact, he had the entire weight and trouble attendant
on the formation of a new government. This, however,

did not prevent his attending closely to improve himself
in the Eastern languages : and whilst his mornings were
employed in his public office, where at first he had but
little assistance, his evenings were devoted to Eastern
literature. Few men, but those who were immediately on
the spot at the time, can form any idea of the difficult task
which he had to perform, in conducting the public business
of such a government as existed on the first establishment

of Penang as a Presidency. It would be irrelevant here

to allude to, or attempt any description of the different
characters of whom this government was formed, the more
particularly so, as they are all now dead ; but it is due to
Mr. Raffles to state, that he was respected and consulted

by every member of it. In his official capacity he gave

most general satisfaction, whilst the settlers looked up to
him for assistance and advice in every difficulty ; and when

he afterwards became chief secretary, the most general

satisfaction was evinced throughout the Settlement.
    " Being of a cheerful, lively disposition, and very fond

of society, it was surprising how he was able to entertain
so hospitably as he did, and yet labour so much as he was

known to do at the time, not only in his official capacity,

but in acquiring a general knowledge of the history, go

12 GOES TO MALACCA FOR HIS HEALTH.

vernment, and local interests of the neighbouring states ;
and this he was greatly aided in doing by conversing freely
with the natives, who were constantly visiting Penang at
this period, many of whom were often found to be sensible,
intelligent men, and greatly pleased to find a person
holding Mr. Raffles's situation able and anxious to converse
with them in their own language."

  It was at this early period (1806) that Mr. Raffles

formed an acquaintance with Dr. Leyden, whose health
had obliged him to quit Calcutta, and to try the effects of
a voyage to Penang. He resided in Mr. Raffles's house
for several months. The similarity of their pursuits, and
the congeniality of their sentiments, soon led to an unre
served intimacy, which, as the knowledge of each other in
creased, strengthened into an attachment that was only
severed by death.

   In consequence of the absence of Mr. Pearson, Mr.

Raffles had to perform the duties of that gentleman as
well as his own, and succeeded to the office of secretary on
the nomination of Mr. Pearson to a seat in Council.

    On the introduction of the Charter of Justice, for the
purpose of establishing a Supreme Court of Judicature,
there was no professional person who could be employed
as registrar. Mr. Raffles offered to act in this capacity,
and rendered most essential assistance in the duties of
arranging and opening the Court.

   The fatigue and responsibility attaching to the office of
secretary, in the organization of a new government, in a

GOES TO MALACCA FOR HIS HEALTH.  13

climate which in a very short period proved fatal to two
Governors, all the Council, and many of the new settlers,
brought on an alarming illness. The attack was so severe,
that for some time little hopes of his life were entertained.

Throughout sufferings by which his strength was nearly
exhausted, he evinced the utmost patience and resignation.
When the disease abated, and he could be removed without

danger (1808), he was recommended to go to Malacca for
the recovery of his health.

  It is difficult to convey an idea of the constant and

laborious duties which, at this period, he had to perform.

It has already been stated, that the compilation and com

position of almost every public document devolved upon
him ; that he had to draw up and keep all the records of

the Government; and that the public despatches were
entrusted to him to frame. There were no half-caste

persons, as at the present day, to assist in performing the
duties of transcribing, which greatly increased the labours

of his office. As registrar he had to arrange all the de
tails of the Recorder's Court. Yet after devoting the
whole of the day to these public duties, it was observed at

the time that he passed his evenings in the study and ac
quirement of Eastern literature. Trifles often denote the
peculiarity of character which distinguishes the individual
from the surrounding crowd; and a circumstance which

occurred during Mr. Raines's visit to Malacca developed
the leading features of his disposition --the forgetfulness
of self, the determination to sacrifice every private consi

                                      SERVICES AT PENANO.

deration to a sense of public duty, --the activity and energy
of mind which overcame every difficulty that obstructed

his course.

   " * Whilst he was thus usefully employing himself, and

improving his health, a circumstance occurred which proves
his zeal and assiduity as a public servant ; a ship arrived
at Malacca from Penang, bringing intelligence of her
having left a vessel in the 'harbour about to proceed to
England. Mr. Raffles, knowing the necessity of sending
despatches by the first opportunity, and well aware that, in
his absence, the Government would find great difficulty in
preparing them, determined on proceeding there without
delay, although strongly urged to remain whilst his health
was so fast improving ; but it was impossible to dissuade
him from what he thought to be a public duty ; and, at

any risk or inconvenience, he was resolved on going. At

the moment there was no vessel in Malacca roads going to
Penang, nor any which could be hired for the purpose ;
but still so determined was he on proceeding, that at length
he got a pleasure-boat, formerly the long-boat of an In-
diaman, and in this small craft he went, and reached Penang
in good time to relieve Government from a weight of care

and anxiety, which I believe was freely acknowledged at

the time."

  It was during this visit to Malacca that Mr. Raffles first

enjoyed the opportunity of observing, and joining with the

                   * Extract from Captain Travers's Journal.

SERVICES AT PENANO.  15

varied population congregated from all parts of the Archi
pelago, and from the distant countries of Asia; from
Java, Amboyna, Celebes, the Moluccas, Borneo, Papua,
Cochin China, China Proper, &c.

   With many he conversed personally, with others through
the medium of interpreters. To this early habit, which he
always retained, of associating with the natives, and ad

mitting them to intimate and social intercourse, may be
attributed the extraordinary influence which he obtained
over them, and the respect with which they always received
his advice and opinions.

    The knowledge which he thus acquired of the different
products of the neighbouring countries, of the nature and
extent of their trade, of their customs, manners, and feel
ings, greatly assisted him in the discharge of those high
and responsible duties to which he was subsequently
called.

    The following extract of a letter from the Governor of
Penang evinces the importance attached to his services,
by the authorities of that Settlement. (1808.)

     To Mr. Raffles,
          " A thousand thanks to you for your kind letters

Iwhich had the pleasure to receive some days ago ; and

hearing then that there was a small vessel sailing for

IMalacca, wrote you a few hurried lines by her, to inform
you of the arrangement I had made for your coming back

in the event of your not meeting with a better conveyance.

16 SERVICES AT PENANG.

The Scourge sailed five days ago, and is to call at Galan-
gore and Siak, before she goes to Malacca. Captain
Barrett is desired to place himself under your orders
whenever he arrives ; and unless a more favourable convey

Iance offers, sincerely hope you will find yourself well

enough to come back to us in the Scourge.

   " It is distressing to me, my dear Sir, to be under the

necessity of stating, in this pointed manner, the unavoid
able exigence of the case, but such is the case, that we
shall not be able to make up any despatches for the Court
without your assistance. This is truly hard upon you,
under the present circumstances of your delicate state of

Ihealth, but trust you will believe that nothing else would

induce me to press so hard on you at this time. And
with the exception of Mr. Phillips, the rest of the Board

can give but little assistance in making out the general
letter ; none, however, so little as myself."

   Soon after the formation of the Settlement of Penang,
Mr. Dundas, the Governor, received from Mr. Marsden,
author of the History of Sumatra, a letter which con
tained some queries on the subject of Malayan literature.
These were immediately referred to Mr. Raffles, as the
person best qualified to answer them ; and in consequence
of Mr. Dundas inclosing the following letter of reply, a
correspondence was commenced between Mr. Raffles and
Mr. Marsden, which continued until Mr. Raffles's return
to England in 181.6, when a personal acquaintance

                      MALAYS.             17

led to an intimacy of friendship, which was never in
terrupted.

         TO THE HONOURABLE P. DUNDAS.

"Dear Sir,      have           " Penang, July 6, 1806.

     I" should        taken an earlier opportunity of

communicating with you on the subject of Mr. Marsden's

Iletter, which you were pleased to refer to me, if had not

Iexpected a few leisure hours, in which could have given

sufficient attention to his queries to reply to them with

Ithe satisfaction desired.

   " Another reason prevented my replying to your flatter

Iing reference : had planned a short excursion of a few

Idays to Queda, and expected from the observations might

make there, to have confirmed several particulars respect

Iing the Malays, which could have communicated to Mr.

Marsden.

  I" In this also have been disappointed, from the circum

stance of Mr. Pearson's having obtained leave of absence

Ifrom the Presidency at the very time intended applying

to you for permission to go to Queda. The length of

time Mr. Pearson may be absent, and the little prospect

I Inow have of the leisure which so anxiously desire, can

alone induce me, at this time, to hazard my inexperienced

opinions on any subject connected with Oriental literature.

   " On the interesting subject of the Chronology of the

Malays, I fear but little light will be thrown from the dis-

vol. i.                                c

20 CAFFRES.

the Malays as a perfect jargon. Their talking is by the

Malays looked upon as the chattering or chirping of large

birds, and bears no similitude whatever to their own.

They are found very useful ; if the Malay is in want of

deer, herbs, particular woods, or the like, from the interior

of the forests, he goes into the skirts, generally alone,

directing his course towards the interior : as he advances

he blows a kind of horn, when the Caffre, if near at hand,

and in the habit of meeting him, cautiously approaches,

and agrees to bring whatever is required by the Malay,
from whom he receives in return a small quantity of

pounded cocoa-nut, or patches of cloth ; but he is remarked
never to take rice, or the articles of food generally used

by the Malays ; from which he is conceived to live entirely

on roots and leaves of trees, on the boughs of which he is

said to leap and cling with equal agility and expertness

as his degrading semblance, the monkey.           I ob

  I" have not yet met with any of these Caffres.

serve Mr. Marsden, in his History of Sumatra, speaks of

the Caffres of the Philippines, who appear to resemble

those alluded to in the Malay Peninsula. These last are

called by Spaniards Negritos del Monte, and are many of

them as black as the natives of Guinea.

  I" am inclined to think the subject of these Caffres

being thus found in the interior of these eastern countries
merits considerable attention ; as, at any rate, they afford

a presumptive evidence that the country which they in

habit cannot for many years have been advanced in civi

GAME OF CHESS.  21

lization ; and, therefore, that the highest state of it exist

ing among the Malays must have been on or near the
coasts, and not the interior. In Java there are said to be

remains of a religion, which may, very probably, be cor

rupted Hindu.
   " With respect to Mr. Marsden's query on the terms

used by the Malays for the different pieces in the game

Iof chess, will state the result of my inquiries among

the Malays themselves. The chatter, or chess-board, is

avowedly and evidently received by the Malays from the
Chuliahs, or men of the Kaling country. The terms

which they could understand they soon altered to their
own fashion. * * * From the above it will appear that

the Malays have altered some terms, and not the others.

IAll can learn respecting the term ter is, that it is a

name given by the Hindus to a small temple, in which is

placed the image of one of their deities, which they carry

about at different times of the year. This term being

given to the pieces, if derived from this origin, may lead

one to imagine that when the Hindus went to war, they

supposed themselves flanked by their gods ; and in re

ducing the art of war to a game of amusement, they could

not do less than pay this compliment. Sir William Jones,

Ispeaking of the Indian chess-board, states, think there

are numerous treatises on the game in the Sanscrit not

Iyet translated : from them, have no doubt, the origin

I Iof the word ter will be easily ascertained.
                regret that

have not a complete Sanscrit vocabulary by me ; but in

22 GAME OF CHESS.

referring to Forster's Bengallee vocabulary, which is, I
Ibelieve, almost pure Sanscrit, am enabled to state some

thing satisfactory. The word ter there signifies ' border,

Iverge, utmost :' a sufficient proof, think, that the term

used for the chess-man is borrowed from the Sanscrit, the

place of the ter on the board being at the border, verge,

utmost, or corner.

  " In observing, however, upon the manner in which the

IMalays have altered the names given by the Chuliahs,

must notice that they sometimes use the word ter, in

speaking of the wings of an army, in preference to sarsup.

   "Many of the books and popular narratives of the

IMalays find to have been rendered from the Kaling lan

guage, a term by which they call all the popular dialects

on the Coromandel coast. That the astonishing number
of Sanskrit words in the Malay language should have been

introduced by the commercial intercourse of the Chuliahs

is not likely, any more than that they should have entered

from the Guzeratty, whose intercourse must have in like

manner been purely commercial ; but a portion, no doubt,

Imay have been received from each-  think (with the

Malays) that they must have received their knowledge

Ifrom the island of Java.  have not been able to obtain,

as yet, any knowledge of the Javanese language ; but my

friend Dr. Leyden, while he was here, paid some little

attention to it; and his opinion I know was, that the

Javanese language must be a dialect of the Sanscrit, very

little corrupted.

MALACCA.                       23

" I take the liberty of annexing a Javanese alphabet :

I Ialso add a Bugguese alphabet ; have never been able

Ito trace one before, and if it is new to Mr. Marsden

Ishall be much gratified.  have hitherto learnt but little

Iabout this nation. They are, believe, in general Maho-

medans, those who refuse the doctrines having been

Iobliged to seek shelter in obscurity. All can trace of a

former religion is, that they believed in a heaven and a

hell.

  I" have to apologize for having carried my letter to so

great a length, without knowing whether the observations

it contains will be acceptable. Should you deem the re

plies to Mr. Marsden's queries in any way satisfactory,

Iand worthy of communication,  hope you will, at the

same time, state them as coming from a young man, who

never made Oriental literature his study, and is but lately
arrived in the place which furnishes the means of his ob
servations," &c, &c.

   Mr. Raffles' s visit to Malacca contributed very essentially
to the promotion of the public interests. Orders had been

issued that the fortifications should be demolished, and

the whole town abandoned. With regard to the public
buildings, these orders had been already executed. Their
object was twofold : first, by the destruction of the works

to deter Europeans from settling there; and, secondly,
by transferring the trade and population, to improve the
station of Penang, or Prince of Wales's Island.

24 MALACCA.

   Mr. Raffles represented that the population of Malacca
far exceeded any idea which had been formed respecting
it ; that it comprised not less than 20,000 souls (1808),
some few of whom were Europeans, chiefly Dutch and
Portuguese, the rest were their half-caste descendants, --
Chinese and their descendants by Malay women, Arabs,
Javanese, and Chuliahs, of whom more than three-fourths
were born in Malacca, where their families had been settled
for centuries. Attached to the place from their birth, they
were accustomed to the local regulations, and in the bosom
of their families they felt that they were at home, their
 peculiarities were attended to, their rank respected, and
their wants supplied. Many were proprietors of the soil,
 or attached to those who were so. From their gardens,
 which produced pepper, vegetables, and all kinds of fruit
 in abundance, and from the fisheries, they derived comfort
 and independence ; no reasonable expectation could be
 entertained that such a population would emigrate to
 Prince of Wales's Island : they were, in fact, inseparable
 from the soil ; and of the offers of free passage which had

 been made, not one had been accepted. At Penang, on

 the other hand, three-fourths of the native population
 were adventurers,--men ready to turn their hands to any
 employments, who, having no fixed home or permanent
 property, might by a very little encouragement be in
  duced to remove.

     The manner in which these representations were re
 ceived, and the sense entertained of the value of Mr.

MALACCA.  25

Raffles' s services, will appear sufficiently from the follow

ing extract of a letter from the Governor of Penang to
the Court of Directors, written at this time.

  I" have it now in my power to submit to your Honour

able Committee a compendious but comprehensive report
from the hand of our secretary, Mr. Raffles, explanatory
of the present circumstances of that Settlement, and illus

trative of the ill consequences that would result from the

adoption of either of the measures that have been hereto

Ifore contemplated regarding it. Such information as

have myself been enabled to collect from intelligent per

sons here, and from other sources, entirely confirms the

judicious observations and conclusions contained in this

very valuable document ; and it is my intention at an

early period to point out to the Supreme Government the

policy, if not necessity, here made sufficiently manifest, of

continuing the present establishment, no branch of which

can admit of reduction, but the charge thereof is amply

provided by the revenues of the Settlement alone.
   " To the services and merits of Mr. Raffles, as well as

Iin duty to my employers, should feel alike wanting were
I to omit this opportunity of pointing out to the favour

able notice of your Honourable Committee the unwearied

zeal and assiduity with which he has, since the formation

of the establishment, devoted his talents to the furtherance

of the Company's interests ; his unremitting attention to

the duties of the most laborious office under this govern

ment, added to those of registrar to the Recorder's Court,

26 MALACCA.

which, at the period of its establishment, he voluntarily

and gratuitously undertook. Having lately endured a
severe indisposition, and the necessity of a visit to Malacca,

he occupied the leisure thus afforded, although under great

bodily suffering, to collect the information furnished in

the accompanying report, which entitles him to my ap

Iprobation, and will, trust, obtain for him that of your

Honourable Committee. The situation of secretary

affords facilities to the person holding it of acquiring a

better knowledge of your affairs here than any other

Iofficer below council ; and can with truth say, that Mr.

Raffles's abilities and general conduct, give him a right to

my recommendation, in as far as being eminently well

Iqualified to assist in your councils.  understand that he

has submitted to his friends an application to be provi

Isionally appointed to the first vacancy, and shall be

happy if my recommendation may weigh with the Ho

nourable Court in his behalf."

When these representations were received, the orders

were countermanded : and Malacca, though alienated for

a time, was restored to Great Britain by the treaty with

the Netherlands' Government, in 1824, and now (1835)
forms part of the consolidated government of Penang,

Singapore, and Malacca.

   Respecting the whole of the Eastern Islands, at that

time (1808) little known or attended to, Mr. Raffles col

lected much interesting information. It was principally

on this subject that he carried on a correspondence with

ON THE MALAYAN NATION.                            27

Dr. Leyden. His letters were occasionally submitted to
the notice of Lord Minto, the Governor-General, in

whom they excited so much interest, that they led to a
personal acquaintance ; and Mr. Raffles had thus again
the gratification of obtaining, purely from his own talents
and character, another and a still more powerful patron
and friend.

TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,  " Runemede, Penang, March, 1809.

            " Two very long and severe illnesses, during

Iwhich was under the necessity of denying myself the

use of the pen, and all kind of study, and from the effects

Iof which am hardly recovered, even at this time, must

*****plead my excuse for not answering, or, indeed, acknow

ledging the receipt of your polite and friendly letters of

the 18th of June and 15th of November last, both of

which arrived when I was confined to my room.
  " With respect to the Menangkabus, I am more than

ever confident that those in the Peninsula derive their
origin from the country of that name in Sumatra.

   " Inland of Malacca, about sixty miles, is situated the
Malay kingdom of Rumbo, of which you have no doubt
heard. The Sultan and all the principal officers of state

hold their authority immediately from Menangkabu, and
have even written commissions for their respective offices ;
this shows the extent of its power, even now, reduced as

*****28 PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.

it must be in common with that of the Malay states in
general.

  "In the Asiatic Researches you will perceive a long

disquisition on the Indo-Chinese nations, by my friend
Dr. Leyden, which will no doubt interest you very much,

I wish we had the good fortune of his local information ;

he was to the eastward but a few months, during which
time he lived with me ; you will see what use he made of
his time.

  I I" have by me a sketch of a grammar which have

*****I Idrawn out, and which will send you as soon as get

time to correct and copy it ; and I am gradually compiling
a dictionary, which you shall be welcome to, if it can be

of any service to you.

  I" must now conclude, and apologise for the hasty

style in which this is written, the fleet having this day put
in here, intending to sail for England to-morrow. You,
my dear Sir, have been secretary yourself, and will make
due allowances."

    The first literary essay of Mr. Raffles was a paper on
the Malayan nation, with a translation of its maritime
institutions, which he communicated to the Asiatic Society
in Calcutta, and from which the following extracts may
prove interesting :--

    " The island of Sumatra, as well as the islands of Java,

PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.  29

Jana Uyi, or Bugisland, (Celebes,) Sulu, and the Mo

luccas, which, with Borneo, compose what may be pro
perly termed the Malayan groupe, are peopled by nations
radically distinct from the Malays, who speak languages
entirely different, and use various written characters, ori
ginal, and peculiar to each. These nations are governed

by their several laws and institutions ; and if we except
the state of Menangkabu, in the island of Sumatra, it is

on the shores of these islands only, and in the Malay
Peninsula, that the Malays are to be found. Whatever
may have been the origin of the Malayan nation, the
primary population of these various and extensive islands
could never, according to any natural inference, have pro
ceeded from the Malays, though the reverse may probably
have been the case.

  I" cannot but consider the Malayan nation as one

people, speaking one language, though spread over so
wide a space, and preserving their character and customs,
in all the maritime states lying between the Sula Seas
and the Southern Ocean, and bounded longitudinally by
Sumatra and the western side of Papua or New Guinea.

   " The Malayan language may no doubt be traced to a
still further extent, and particularly among the South

Sea Islands ; but that point belongs to a dissertation on
the origin of the nation and its language, and need not be
attended to here. Independently of the laws of the Koran,
which are more or less observed in the various Malay
states, according to the influence of their Arabian and

30 PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.

Mahomedan teachers, but seldom further than as they
affect matters of religion, marriage, and inheritance, the
Malay states possess several codes of laws, denominated
Undang Undang, or institutions of different antiquity and
authority, compiled by their respective sovereigns : and

every state of any extent possesses its own Undang Un
dang. Throughout the whole there appears a general
accordance; and where they differ it is seldom beyond

what situation, superior advantages, and authority have
naturally dictated. Many of the Undang Undang contain
the mere regulations for the collection of the duties on
trade, and the peculiar observations of the port, while others
ascend to the higher branches of civil and criminal law.

   " From the comparative rude and uncivilized character
of the Malay nation, learned disquisition is not to be
looked for ; but simple ideas, simply expressed, may
illustrate character better than scientific or refined com
position. And in this point of view, however local or
particular the subject may be, the institutions and regu
lations of so extensive a maritime nation must be in
teresting. Considering, therefore, that a translation of
these codes, digested and arranged according to one
general plan, might be as useful in facilitating and
ensuring a more secure intercourse among this extra
ordinary and peculiar nation, as it might be interesting
in illustrating the unjustly degraded character of so
extensive a portion of the human race, hitherto so little
known, either with respect to what they are, or what they

PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.  31

Iwere, have long been engaged, as far as the severe duties

of my public situation would admit, in collecting Malay
manuscripts of every description, and, in particular, copies
of the Undang Undang Malaya, which, with the curious
collections of Addat, or immemorial customs, and what

may be usefully extracted from the Sejarat Malaya and

Akal Malaya, or annals and traditions of the Malays,
comprise what may be termed the whole body of the
Malay laws, customs, and usages, as far as they can be
considered as original, under the heads of government,

property, slavery, inheritance, and commerce.

   " On the eastern side of Sumatra, the Malay states of
Acheen, Siak, and Palembang, may be considered as of

the most importance.

   " The laws of Acheen are peculiar, on account of the
severity of the criminal law ; and although it may be pre

sumed that they were borrowed from the more ancient
inhabitants of the island, they are interesting, in as far as

they may have been generally adopted by the Malays in
the Straits of Malacca, and may have given rise to that
sanguinary disposition, by which the Malays are usually
supposed to be characterised. Those of Siak have a
peculiar interest, from the long-established connexion
between that state and the Menangkabus in the interior
of Sumatra. The Siak river takes its rise in the Menang-
kabu country, and has obviously been the principal outlet
from the rich and populous countries in the interior, of

which so little is known.

  32 PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.

    " Of the Malay Peninsula, the principal states entitled
 to notice, on the western side, are those of Queda, Malacca,
 and Johore ; and on the eastern those of Tringano, Patani,

 and Pahang.

    " The states on the eastern side of the Peninsula, with
 the exception of Patani, which has been considerably in

 fluenced by the Siamese, seem generally to have admitted
 the superiority of the Malay government first established
 at Singapore, and afterwards at Johore.

    " On the island of Borneo, the several Malay states

 have regulations and institutions peculiar to each, though
not differing in any material degree from those of the

Peninsula.

    " With respect to the internal regulations of govern
ment, police, property, and what in all Malay codes occu
pies so large a share, slavery, the Malay states in the
Peninsula have been selected, as well on account of their

connexion with the English government at Penang and
Malacca, as for the still more important reason, in a phi
losophical point of view, of the Malays being, according

Ito the theory have laid down, to be found here the least

adulterated in their character, usages, and manners. They
are bounded by the Siamese, to the north, whose encroach
ments and establishments in the Peninsula, as they have
from time to time taken place, may easily be defined. The

Malays seem here to have occupied a country previously

unappropriated ; for if we except an inconsiderable race of

Caffres, who are occasionally found near the mountains,

          PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.     33

and a few tribes of the Orang Benua, there does not exist
a vestige of a nation anterior to the Malay in the whole
Peninsula.

   " As the population of the Malay Peninsula has excited

much interest, my attention has been particularly directed
to the various tribes stated to be scattered over the

country.

"Those on the hills are usually termed Semang, and

are woolly-headed ; those on the plain Orang Benua, or

people belonging to the country ; the word benua being

applied by the Malays to any extensive country, as benua

China : but it appears to be only a sort of Malay plural
to the Arabic word ben or beni, signifying a tribe. The

early adventurers from Arabia frequently make mention

in their writings of the different tribes they met with to

the eastward ; and from them most probably the Malays

have adopted the term Orang Benua.

  I" had an opportunity of seeing two of these people,

from a tribe in the neighbourhood of Malacca: it con

sisted of about sixty people, and the tribe was called

Jokong. These people, from their occasional intercourse

with the villages dependent on Malacca, speak the Malay

language sufficiently to be generally understood. They

state that there are two other tribes, the Orang Benua

and the Orang Udai. The former appears the most

interesting as composing the majority ; the latter is only

another name for the Semang, or Caffres.
   " From the vicinity of the Jokong tribe to Malacca, and

VOL. I.                                 D

34 PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.

intercourse with its inhabitants, they may have adopted

many Malay words not originally in their language. They

are not circumcised, and they appear to have received
some instruction regarding Nabi Isa, or, as they pro

nounce      it,  Isher. They, however, have no books, nor any

word for God, whom they designate by the Portuguese

Deos. The men are well formed, rather short, resembling

the Malay in countenance, but having a sharper and

smaller nose. They marry but one wife, whether rich or

poor, and appear to observe no particular ceremony at
their nuptials. The consent of the girl and that of the

parents being obtained, the couple are considered as man

and wife.                             have had
                                      I
   " The Malays of Remban, with whom
                                                  a
frequent communications, adopt the broad dialect of the

Malays of Sumatra, changing the a at the end of word

into'o      this peculiarity may be still observed among many

of the inhabitants of the southern part of the Peninsula.:

" The following  is    translation of the Malayan history
                    a

of the first arrival of the Portuguese at Malacca --
                                      :

" Ten Portuguese vessels arrived at Malacca from

Manilla, for the purpose of trade, during the reign of the

Sultan Ahmed Shah, at a time when that country pos

sessed an extensive commerce, and every thing in abun
dance, when the affairs of government were well adminis

tered, and the officers properly appointed.

   " For forty days the Portuguese ships traded at Ma
    '

       ;
lacca but still the Portuguese commander remained on

                    PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION.                                                                                        35

shore, presenting dollars by the chest, and gold ; and how

many beautiful cloths did they present to the illustrious

Shah Ahmed Shah, so that the Sultan was most happy !
   " ' After this Sultan Ahmed Shah said to the com

mander of the Portuguese, " What more do you require

from us, that you present us such rich presents ?" To
this the commander replied, " We only request one thing

of our friend, should he be well inclined towards the white

men." Whereupon Sultan Ahmed Shah said, " State what

it is that I may hear  it,  and  if     a is  in my power will
                                                  I
                                    it

comply with the request of my friend." The Portuguese

answered, " We wish to request   a  small piece of ground,

to the extent of what the skin of beast may cover."
" Then," said the Sultan, " let not my friends be unhappy,

let them take whatever spot of ground they like best, to

the extent of what they request." The captains were

highly rejoiced at this, and the Portuguese immediately

landed, bringing with them spades, brick, and mortar the
      it

                                   ;

                                                            a

                                                                                                                                     ;
commander then took the skin of the beast, and having

rent  into cords, measured out therewith four sides,

within which the Portuguese built store-house of very

considerable dimensions, leaving large square apertures in

the walls for guns and when the people of Malacca in

quired the reason of the apertures being left, the Portu
guese returned for answer, " These are the apertures that

the white men require for windows." The people of

Malacca were satisfied and content.

   " Alas how often did the Bendahara and Tumun
'
                 !

36 CONQUEST OF MALACCA BY THE PORTUGUESE.

gungs approach the Rajah with a request that the white

men might not be permitted to build a large house : but

the Rajah would say, " My eyes are upon them, and they

are few in number : if they do any wrong, whatever it may
Ibe, shall see
it              and will give orders for their being
    ' is

                          it,

                     I

                                              a
massacred, -- (literally, will order my men to amok, or, as

      vulgarly termed, run muck among them.)" Not
withstanding this, the Bendahara and Tumungungs re

mained dissatisfied in their hearts, for they were wise men.
   " After this the Portuguese, during the night, con

veyed cannon into their storehouse, and they landed

small-arms, packed in chests, saying their contents were

cloths; and in this manner did the Portuguese deceive

and cheat the people of Malacca                  it
   " What the Portuguese next did the people of         !
''
Malacca were ignorant of, but was long before the store
            it
house was completed and when all their arms were in
                ;

order, then was at midnight, at time when the people
                                                           a

of Malacca were asleep, that the Portuguese began to fire

off their guns from the fort of Malacca                       !
   " They soon destroyed all the houses of the people
                                                               it
of Malacca, and their Nibong fort and was during this
                                                 ;

night, when the Portuguese first attacked the people of

Malacca, that Sultan Ahmed Shah, with his people, fled in

all directions, for no one could remain to oppose the

'Portuguese.
   " Thus did the Portuguese take possession of Malacca,

whilst Sultan Ahmed Shah fled to Moar, and from thence

ATTACK OF THE DUTCH ON MALACCA.  37

in a short time to Johore, and afterwards to Bentan, to

establish another country. Such is the account of the
Portuguese taking the kingdom of Malacca from the
hands of Sultan Ahmed Shah.

    " ' During thirty-six years, three months, and fourteen
days, the Portuguese were employed in the construction
of the fort, and then it was completed.

   " ' From this time the Portuguese remained in quiet
possession of Malacca for about nine years and one month,

when the country once more began to flourish, on account
of the quantities of merchandise brought there from all
quarters. Such is the account of the country of Malacca

under the Portuguese.

   " ' After this period, a Dutch vessel arrived at Malacca
for the purpose of trade ; the vessel's name was After-
lenden, and that of the captain, Ibir. The captain per

ceived that Malacca was a very fine place, and had a good
fort; therefore, after the Dutch vessel had traded for

fifteen days, he set sail for Europe, and arriving after a
considerable time at the great country, he gave intelli
gence to the great Rajah of what he had seen of the
country of Malacca, the extent of its commerce, and the
excellence of its fort. On this, the Rajah of Europe said,

I" If such is the account of Malacca, it is proper that

should order it to be attacked." Twenty-five vessels were
thereupon ordered by the Rajah of Europe, for the purpose
of attacking Malacca, and troops being embarked in each,
they first set sail for the kingdom of Bantam, in the

38 ATTACK OF THE DUTCH ON MALACCA.

country of Java, where the Dutch were on terms of

friendship.

   " ' At Bantam they found two Dutch ships, and a

ketch, and after having taken on board buffaloes, and
provisions for the use of the persons on board, the vessels
then sailed for Malacca.

   " ' As soon as the fleet arrived at Malacca, the Dutch

sent a letter to the Portuguese, telling them to hold
themselves in readiness, as it was the intention of the

Dutch to commence the attack on the morrow, at mid-day.

To this the Portuguese replied, " Come when you please,

we are ready."

   " ' On the next day the Dutch commenced the attack,

and the war continued for about two months ; but the
country of Malacca was not carried, and the Dutch re
turned to Bantam, where they remained quiet for some
time, in the intention of returning to Europe; all the
great men on board feeling ashamed of what had hap

pened.

   " ' The great men in each of the vessels, having after
wards held consultations respecting another attack on
Malacca, they proceeded against it a second time, but it
did not surrender. The Dutch now sent a letter to
Johore, in terms of friendship, to the Sultan, requesting
his assistance, in the attack of Malacca. With this the
Rajah of Johore was pleased, and an agreement was
entered into between the Rajah of Johore and the Dutch,
which was sworn to ; so that the Dutch and Malays became

ATTACK OF THE DUTCH ON MALACCA.                     39

as one, as far as concerned the taking of Malacca. An

agreement was made that the Dutch should attack from

Ifthe sea, and the people of Johore from the land.  the

country surrendered, the Dutch were to retain the coun

try, and the cannon ; and every thing else that might be

found within Malacca was to be equally divided between

the Dutch and the people of Johore.
   " ' When these terms were agreed upon, the men of

Johore and the Dutch sailed for Malacca, and after at

tacking it for about fifteen days, from the sea, many were
slain, as well Portuguese as Malays and Dutch. The

Malays then held a consultation, and began to think, that

if they fought against the white men according to this
fashion, Malacca would not fall for ten years. It was

therefore agreed upon by all the Malays, that fifty men
should enter the fort of Malacca, and run a muck or

meng-amok.

   " ' The Malays then selected a lucky day, and on the
twenty-first day of the month, at 5 o'clock in the morning,
the fifty Malays entered the fort, and commenced amok,
and every Portuguese was either put to death, or forced
to fly into the interior of the country, without order or

regularity.
   " ' On this, the Malays exerted themselves in plundering

Malacca, and the whole was divided between the men of

Johore and the Dutch, according to their agreement.
    " ' The men of Johore then returned to the country of

Johore, and the Dutch remained in possession of Malacca.

4(1 PAPER ON THE MALAYAN NATION..

" This is the account of former times.'
" To return to the subject of the Undang Undang

Malaya, the collection of Malay laws, as far as regards the

Malayan nation separately, is nearly completed ; but it is

advisable to adopt a more extensive plan, embracing the

original institutions of the various nations among the

Eastern Islands.

**·               *

   " The most obvious and natural theory on the origin
of the Malays is, that they did not exist as a separate

and distinct nation until the arrival of the Arabians in the

Eastern Seas. At the present day they seem to differ

from the more original nations, from which they sprung

in about the same degree, as the Chuliahs of Kiling differ

from the Tamul and Telinga nations on the Coromandel

coast, or the Mapillas of Malabar differ from the Nairs,

both which people appear, in like manner with the Malays,

to have been gradually formed as nations, and separated

from their original stock by the admixture of Arabian

blood, and the introduction of the Arabic language and

Moslem religion.
   " The word jahui is the Malay term for any thing mixed

or crossed ; as when the language of one country is written

in the character of another, it is termed b'hasa jahui, or

mixed language; or when a child is born of a Kiling

father and Malay mother, it is called anah jahui, a child

of mixed race. Thus the Malay language, being written

in the Arabic character, is termed b'hasa jahui; the

LETTER FROM DR. LEY DEN.                     41

Malays, as a nation distinct from the fixed population of
the Eastern Islands, not possessing any written character
but what they borrow from the Arabs.

  I" With respect to the maritime institutions which

have now the honour to lay before the Asiatic Society,
they have been selected on account of their singularity
and characteristic peculiarities. The power of life and
death, vested in the Nakhodah, or captain of a vessel,

may be considered as purely Malay, or at any rate to
have had its origin in the Eastern Islands : the Arabs,
from whom alone they could have borrowed a foreign sea-

Icode, not possessing, as far as have been able to ascer

tain, any treatise whatever on maritime law, or in any

instance admitting the authority of the Nakhodah to

inflict capital punishments. In this point of view, the

paper, even in its present state, may not be uninteresting ;
and it may tend, in some degree, to account for some of
the numerous peculiarities of a nation generally believed
to act on most occasions solely from individual will, and

ferocious passion."
   The following letter from Dr. Leyden to Mr. Raffles

was written at this time, and has reference to this paper :

" My dear Raffles,      " Calcutta, October 9, 1809.
                       both your letters, and with
     I" have received

great vexation have to inform you that Lord Minto is at

present gone to the unfortunate presidency of Madras,

I Iwhere believe he has got his hands full,  laid before

42 LETTER FROM DR. LEY DEN.

him without delay the manuscript concerning Malacca,

with which he was greatly pleased, and desired me to say

he should be gratified in receiving immediately from your

self any communications respecting the eastern parts of a
Isimilar nature.
                  shall not fail to write to him as soon as

I am a little recovered, for I have been for some time

I(days mean) confined to bed by a smart attack of fever.
IHowever, am to-day up for the first time, but not at all

able to write letters, so you must excuse me for the present.
   " My literary studies were quite knocked on the head

for some time, by the duties of a magistrate in so large a

district as the twenty-four Pergunnahs, and I was after

wards for some months also magistrate of Nadeah, where

I was constantly engaged in bush-fighting in the jungles.
I have now more time, and have again begun my literary

avocations with vigour ; nor have I given up my eastern

researches quite. Now pray do contrive to tell me what

you are doing in the literary way, and to get me a few copies
of the best Malay manuscripts ; above all, try and get me
the works of the famous Bugis bard, Saveri-yading, and

any thing you can in Bali and Siamese. You have never,

I presume, been able to get the Batavian Researches into

your clutches, but do try and get me the best alphabets of

all the eastern tribes. Have you no Batta that can read

Ithe lingo of the man-eaters ? have got a book but cannot
Iread it. must be done however and go to bed, or increase

my fever.

                  " Yours, ever truly,

                            " J. Leyden."

                  CHAPTER II.

Mr. Raffles proceeds to Calcutta --Proposes expedition to Java-- Lord
   Minto appoints him agent to collect information on the subject --
   Instructions of the Court of Directors to expel the French, and to
   give up the Island to the Natives -- Consequences of such a measure
   --Lord Minto objects to it --Determines to proceed in person to
   Java --Letters of Dr. Leyden --His account of an excursion in the
   Malay Peninsula -- Mr. Raffles reports to Lord Minto the result of
    his inquiries respecting Java, fyc.

Lord Minto was anxious, about this time, to place Mr.
Raffles in the government of the Moluccas, considering it
a wider field for the exercise of his talents (1809). Pre

vious arrangements interfered with this intention ; and the
course of public events was about to open a field of still

greater importance. In the meantime Mr. Raffles went

to Calcutta, and was received with great kindness by
Lord Minto, who ever afterwards continued his firm
and steady friend, and reposed in him the most unre
 served confidence.

    The ambitious views of Bonaparte began, at this period,
to be more fully developed. The annexation of Holland
to France placed at his disposal all the valuable and ex
tensive possessions of the Dutch in the Eastern Seas ; pos
 sessions as important to Holland as those on the continent

44 PROPOSED EXPEDITION TO JAVA.

of India are to Great Britain. France looked to Java as
the point from whence her operations might be most suc
cessfully directed, not only against the political ascen
dency of England in the East, but likewise against her
commercial interests both abroad and at home.

   Mr. Raffles, aware of the plans which the English
Government had formed for the reduction of the French
island, the Mauritius and Bourbon, and feeling certain,
from his local knowledge, that the resources of the enemy
would be formidable so long as the Dutch supremacy was
even nominally permitted in the eastern seas, communi
cated to Lord Minto information of so important a nature,
that his Lordship was induced to undertake, without delay,
the reduction of Java and its dependencies. Lord Minto
decided on this measure on his own responsibility ; but
had the satisfaction to receive from England an approval
of the measure before the departure of the expedition.

   As this operation was dependent upon the success of
the attempt against the French islands, it was deemed
advisable that, in the mean time, Mr. Raffles should be
sent as Agent of the Governor-General to Malacca, from
whence he might superintend the necessary arrangements,
and apprize the Government of Bengal of the extent and
nature of the force required, and open such a communi
cation with the native chieftains of the Archipelago as
would, at any rate, facilitate the extension of the British
influence in the Eastern Seas.

   The confidence which Lord Minto reposed in Mr.

LETTER FROM LORD MINTO.  45

Raffles will be perceived from the following extracts of
letters addressed to him during the progress of the expe
dition.

                " FROM LORD MINTO TO MR. RAFFLES.

                                                    " Calcutta, February, 1811.

  I" am now to acquaint you with my own intention to
Iproceed in person, at least to Malacca, and eventually,

may say probably, to Java. The impossibility of your
returning to Bengal, in time, with the information which
can alone enable me to frame instructions for the conduct
of this expedition, and for settling the consequent arrange
ments, has been very obvious for some time. The expe
diency, not to say necessity, of my approaching the scene,
and bringing the authority of Government at least within
reach of reference, is evident. That resolution is, there

fore, taken.

  I" count upon meeting you at Malacca ; and then, in

communication with yourself and Sir Samuel Achmuty,
the final plans, military and political, will be settled.

  I" have no doubt that the communications you will

have opened with the Island of Java and adjacent coun
tries will have furnished authentic knowledge of the
dispositions we shall meet there, and enable us to place
our enterprise upon a footing which will ensure the con

currence and co-operation of the native states, if it does

not procure the acquiescence of the Dutch themselves in
our views.

46 LETTER FROM LORD MINTO.

I I" must tell you in confidence, that have received

the sanction of government at home for this expedition,
but that the views of the Directors do not go beyond the

expulsion or reduction of the Dutch power, the destruction

of their fortifications, the distribution of their arms and

stores to the natives, and the evacuation of the island by

Iour own troops.  conclude, however, that the destructive

and calamitous consequences of this plan to so ancient

and populous an European colony, the property and lives

of which must fall a sacrifice to the vindictive sway of the

Malay chiefs, if transferred suddenly and defenceless to

Itheir dominion, have not been fully contemplated ; and

have already stated my reasons for considering a modi

fication of their orders as indispensable.

  I"The points on which have been able to form a

judgment, with any confidence, are ; first, that we must

establish provisionally an administration to supply the

protection which will have been lost by the abolition of
the Dutch authority ;--this applies more particularly to
Batavia ;--that the Dutch may themselves be employed,

in a great and principal proportion, in this new adminis
tration, under the control of a presiding British authority ;

--that the two principal ports of Samarang and Gressie

must be retained, with the territories dependent upon

them, at least till we can form an adequate and informed

judgment of the advantage or prejudice to be expected
from abandoning them ;--that it may be considered as

doubtful, in the present state of the investigation, whether

                LETTER FROM LORD MINTO.                     47

any and what other stations should be kept in our pos
session; and these are points to be reserved for con
sideration when we meet, or when our information is more

complete.

   " To the native princes and people the abolition of

Dutch power would alone afford a gratification of rooted

passions, and a prospect of substantial relief and advan

tage, which may be expected to withdraw them from the

Dutch and unite them to our cause; and a system of

connexion between them and the English Government

may be founded on principles so manifestly beneficial to

the people of the island, as to attach them to our alliance,

and ensure tranquillity between us.

  " All this remains to be discussed when we meet : in

the mean while, take this as a sketch and colour of my

present views.

                I" am, sincerely and faithfully,

                                                 " MlNTO."

  It will be perceived, from the foregoing letter, how

difficult it is to legislate for distant countries ; and how
careful those in power ought to be not only in the se
lection of proper men to fill public stations far removed
from the source of authority, but also not to tie them
down too closely to any specific rule of action.

   It can never be supposed for a moment, that a body so

respectable as the Court of Directors could deliberately
sanction such an expedition, without taking into account

 48 LETTER FROM DR. LEYDEN.

all the probable consequences. The mere object of de
stroying the ascendency of an ancient European colony,
however legitimate in itself that object might be consi
dered, as a means of weakening a declared enemy, could

hardly be justifiable, if it were to be followed up by a
transfer of that enemy's power to the hands of millions of

uncivibsed people, who would instantly annihilate the
whole population of their ancient masters. Such, however,
would inevitably have been the consequence of an exact

obedience to the orders of the Court. It is precisely on

such an occasion that the talents, the prudence, and the
local knowledge of a distant authority are necessary to be
called into action.

   It is true that, by incurring the responsibility attached

to such a departure from his orders, the individual may
sometimes risk both his fortune and fame ; but no man is
fit for high station any where, who is not prepared to risk
even more than either fame or fortune, at the call of his

judgment and his conscience.
   The name of the writer of the next letter would alone

give an interest to the whole of it ; but parts are so purely
personal and private, that they have been necessarily

omitted. It was written while the expedition was still in

preparation.

FROM DR. LEYDEN TO MR. RAFFLES.

I" In Campbell's case,  experienced a sad vexation,

because I was compelled to send my letter up to Barrack

LETTER FROM DR. LEYDEN.           49

pore, for his Lordship's revision, so that it did not return

till Campbell was gone entirely. The military queries

I Iwhich send you enclosed, regret any delay in your

receiving ; but the letter itself was only to say that his

Lordship was exceedingly well-disposed towards you,

desirous of giving you every opportunity of distinguishing

yourself, and rewarding you as highly as the imperious

nature of circumstances would permit. This you knew

Ivery well before, and was very glad that his Lordship

thought it unnecessary to cause me to write you a formal

letter on the subject. Indeed, Raffles, he has always

talked of you to me with a kindness very uncommon in a

Governor-General, and says, that he is pleased with think

ing he will be able to arrange matters very much to your
I Isatisfaction when he arrives.
am glad that have been

able to keep him tight up to this point. He is still fluc

tuating between the two old plans of keeping the country

or rendering it independent. The orders which he has

received from home are entirely and positively in favour

of the last. He is required to expel the French and

Dutch, and leave the country entirely to itself. This his

own good sense directly saw to be impossible, from the
shoals of half-castes at Batavia. Colebrook and Lumsden

have succeeded in making some impression on him, by

talking of accustoming the Malays to independence, and

Iall that ; but may never be a second Draco, nor write

my laws in blood, if they succeed."

                         E

so LETTER FROM LORD MINTO.

FROM LORD MINTO.

" It is proposed to style you Secretary to the Governor-

General when we come together ; for then your character

of agent will naturally merge ; secretary is the highest

office below the council, and was lately held by Mr. Ed-

Imonstone at Madras.      hope you do not doubt the pro

Ispective interest have always taken, and do not cease to

Itake, in your personal views and welfare.  have not

spoken distinctly on that subject, only because it has been

from circumstances impossible for me to pledge myself to

Ithe fulfilment of my own wishes, and, may add, inten

tions, if practicable. The best is, in truth, still subject to

one contingency, the origin of which is earlier than my

I Iacquaintance with you ; but am happy to say, that do

not expect an obstacle to my very strong desire upon this

point ; and if it should occur, the utmost will be done to

make the best attainable situation worthy of your services,

Iand of the high esteem profess, with the greatest sin

cerity, for your person.

                          " Your's very faithfully,
                                                        " MlNTO."

  It is impossible to read this letter of Lord Minto's with

out being strongly impressed by the kind interest for the
welfare of others, the uprightness of intention, and the
sincerity of heart which it breathes throughout.

   During the period of his stay at Malacca, previous to

    LETTER FROM DR. LEYDEN.                             51

the arrival of Lord Minto, Mr. Raffles was joined by his
friend Dr. Leyden ; who, in making an excursion into the
interior of the Malay peninsula, wrote him the following
characteristic letter.

    FROM DR. LEYDEN TO MR. RAFFLES.

    " My dear Raffles,  Gappam, May 31, 1811.

    I" take the opportunity of Mr. Rock's return

Ito inform you that have safely reached Gappam, and to
Imorrow shall proceed to the Ayer Panas. We made, on

the whole, a very pleasant journey, considering my expec

Itations on the subject ; and had the mortification not to

be once compelled to have recourse to any of my old moss-

trooping habits. To compensate this, however, we had a

very severe rain for a great part of the way ; and the roads,

which pass down some very pretty declivities, were so

plaguy slippery, that they gave me no opportunity of

admiring them, excepting once, that my courser-wight

Ipitched head-foremost over one of them, and head fore

most over him ; when, thanks to my thick skull and stiff

Ineck, sprung to my feet as alert as a rope-dancer, and

had a very pretty peep at the landscape before the horse

Iwas able to rise. The country, as far as have yet seen
                                                        I it,
is  most excellent and would grieve Mr. Seton to observe
    I;
             it

                      a
                                  is
the devastation and dilapidations visible every where.

believe, however, should have said delignifications, instead
of dilapidations, for never stone used in the construc

                                      ts

                                        2

52 LETTER FROM DR. LEYDEN.

Ition of a Malay house.  am very much pleased with the

inhabitants of the Campong, or vale of Gappam. They

are a clean, healthy, stout-looking race ; and appear to

Ime to be as excellent peasants as have ever seen. They

seem, from the great superabundance of fruit, to be pretty

well provided in the article of food ; but how they procure

their clothing is not quite so obvious. The soil of the

******ridges is a light mark, and of the bottoms a deep black

Imould ; and am sure there is not a more fertile country

in all Malabar.
If" anything occurs which anyway requires my pre

sence, let me be summoned without delay, and let me hear

Iof your arrangements when they are formed.  find my

self here completely at my ease ; and that Mr. Kock has

Imade only a great deal too many preparations.  have

walked about all day, and done nothing but look at the

Icountry.  meant to have put Mrs. R. into a postscript,

but have desisted on considering that this is generally the

most valuable part of a lady's letter, and have reserved

Ithat honour for Miss R. : apropos of ladies, have already

become an immense favourite of that goodly old damsel,

the Pungulu of Gappam's wife, from having dined entirely

on curries, &C., of her own dressing ; the lady has not yet

Iventured to show herself ; but have been informed of the

I Ifact, which hold for gospel. The only thing in which

have been disappointed is in the non-arrival of the fatong

whom we summoned. But such a place as Gappam for

LORD MINTO'S ARRIVAL AT MALACCA.  53

musquitos certainly never was seen ; in spite of my thick

Iboots find it quite impossible to keep my ground, or
Iindeed to write a single word more than that always am

                            " Your's very truly,

                                            " J. Leyden."

   On the 18th of April (1811) Lord Minto arrived at
Penang, and on the 9th of May at Malacca, where Mr.
Raffles had been long waiting for him in great anxiety,
as the south-east monsoon was every day increasing in

violence, and rendering the passage more and more un

certain.

   From the moment of his arrival at Malacca, Mr. Raffles

had devoted himself with all his usual ardour to the acquire
ment of information on every point calculated to promote
the conquest of Java, and communicated the result of his
inquiries to Lord Minto in letters which contained a mass

of useful information. It is not easy at the present day

to appreciate the numerous points to which his inquiries

were directed ; the various objects which they embraced,
the minuteness of the details, as well as the comprehen
siveness of the views, prove the correctness, the discrimi
nation as well as the activity of his mind.

                CHAPTER III.

 Account of the Eastern Islands -- Products of Borneo -- Settlements of
     Europeans in the Island-- Celebes -- Traffic in slaves --Policy of the
    Dutch, different policy of the English -- Dutch factory at Japan --
    Trade with-- Views connected with the acquisition of Java --
    Countries from the Bay of Bengal to New Holland-- Proposed
    policy, chain ofposts -- Chinese in Java -- Monopoly offarms, fyc. --
    Arabs, use they make of their religion -- Americans, regulation of
    trade-- Dutch orders respecting trade and navigation -- Means
    taken to keep up their monopoly of spice -- Cause of the failure of
    their trading ports -- Former policy of the English objected to --

 i Neglect of the British government -- Dutch views of Colonies --
    Causes of deterioration of Malay character -- Piracy -- Laws -- Sla
    very, sources of, in the Malay countries-- Laws, want of-- Propa
   gation of Christianity -- Advantages likely to accrue to the British
   nation from the acquisition of Java and the Eastern Isles.

                                       TO LORD MINTO.

" In my last letter (1811) I referred to the island of

Borneo, which is not only one of the most fertile countries
n the world, but the most productive in gold an d dia
monds. The camphor which it produces is the finest in
the world, and it is thought that it is capable of g rowing
every species of spice. Its eastern coasts, which abound
in sago, also produce a greater quantity of birds nests,
sea slug, and other commodities in great demand in the
Chinese market, than all the other islands of the East ;

BORNEO.                    55

but the interior has never been explored by Europeans.

It may be conjectured that this ignorance of the state of

the country is one of the principal causes that no Euro

pean settlement has hitherto proved advantageous ; but

has generally been abandoned after a short trial. The

only exception to this observation is the Dutch settlement

of Banjar Massing, which continued from 1747 to nearly
three years ago, when it was abandoned by Marshal

Daendels to the Rajah, by agreement, for the sum of

50,000 dollars. The Rajah soon after sent an embassy
to the government of Penang, inviting the English to

settle in their place; but this application not being

attended to, they applied to me on my coming down to
IMalacca last December, as had the honour of stating

Iin my former despatches.  shall only add, that during

the continuance of the Dutch settlement at Banjar

Massing, the expense and revenue were always sup

posed to be very equally balanced, and that the aban

donment of the settlement was strongly opposed by

many of the Dutch.
   " The only other territory to which the Dutch have

any claim on the island of Borneo, is the coast from Saca-
dana to Mampawa, Pontiana, which lies about twelve
miles up the river, and Landa, which lies about seventy
miles up the river of that name, navigable by large boats.
This territory they acquired in virtue of a cession from the

Sultan of Bantam in 1778 ; they destroyed Sacadana, and

established factories at Pontiana and Mampawa, which

 56 BORNEO.

 they abandoned as unproductive after a trial of fourteen

 years.

    " No other part of the island of Borneo has been settled
 by Europeans. The English in 1772 intended to have

 established a factory at Passir, but abandoned the design

 on some commotions taking place in that state. Its object
 was to make Passir a depot for opium and Indian piece
goods, and for the contraband trade in spices. In 1774,
 a short time after the first settling of Balambangan, Mr.
 Jesse was deputed as resident to Borneo proper, with

which state he concluded a treaty, by which the settle
ment of Balambangan acquired the exclusive trade in
pepper; stipulating, in return, to protect Borneo from
the piratical incursions of the Sulu and Mindanawi men ;
neither of the parties, however, fulfilled their agreements,
though the residency at Borneo was continued for some
years after the first breaking up of the Balambangan
settlement in 1775.

   " On the N. E. of Borneo proper lies a very consi

derable territory, the sovereignty of which has been long
claimed by the Sulu government, and a very considerable
part of which, together with the islands off the coast,
have been for upwards of forty years regularly ceded
to the English by the Sulus, and has also at different
periods been occupied by the English, without any ob
jection on the part of the government of Borneo proper.
This ceded district, which extends from the river Kio-
manis on the north-west, which forms the boundary of

BORNEO.  57

Borneo proper, to the great bay of Towsan Abia, on the
north-east, is undoubtedly a rich and fertile country,
though in a rude and uncultivated state ; and it is admi

rably situated for commerce, though the different failures
of the settlement of Balambangan may seem to indicate

the contrary. Balambangan is one of the small islands
off the northern extremity of the island of Borneo, and

included in the Sulu grant to the English. It would be

foreign to the present object, to enter into any details
concerning the history of the settlement of Balambangan ;

but it may be proper to mention, that all the gentlemen
who were engaged in the last attempt, were convinced
that the bottom of the great Malluda bay would have
been infinitely preferable as a settlement, in every respect.

   " Balambangan is, in almost every respect, analogous
to Penang ; it does not admit of territorial extension, and
must exist, if it exists at all, by commerce solely. Mal
luda, on the other hand, is a deep bight in the island of
Borneo, which admits of any degree of territorial exten
sion ; may always subsist any number of inhabitants by

its own produce ; and communicates with the great lakes
in the centre of Borneo, in the vicinity of the gold coun

tries, by a land carriage of little more than forty miles.

IFrom the inquiries which have taken every opportunity
Iof making respecting the island of Borneo, feel per

fectly satisfied that no settlement is likely to succeed in

that quarter, which is founded on a commercial, instead
of a territorial, basis. We have already acquired terri

58 BORNEO.

torial rights, and are likely to acquire more ; and, there
fore, the only question at present seems to be, whether
these can be turned to advantage, either by cultivation or

Icommerce. To this should have no hesitation whatever

in answering, yes; finding the Dayak, or original inha
bitants of Borneo, not only industrious in their habits, but
particularly devoted to agriculture, and so manageable,
that a handful of Malays have, in numerous places, reduced
many thousands of them to the condition of peaceful culture
vators of the ground. Indeed, nothing seems wanting to

effect this on a great scale but a strong government, which
can afford efficient protection to property, and safety to

Ithe individuals ; and in the case of the Dayak, regard

it as an advantage, that they have not hitherto adopted
the religion of Islam, and would be ready, from the first,
to regard us as their friends and protectors. Another
great advantage which attends the formation of settle
ments in Borneo is, that there are no territorial claims
upon it from any European nation but ourselves. To
recommend, however, any thing of the kind immediately,
would obviously be premature; as, notwithstanding the
length of time which we occupied Balambangan, not only
the interior of Borneo is almost unknown, but even a great
part of its coasts. This supineness in the government of

IBalambangan is, perhaps, not wholly unexampled ; and

fear, it must be admitted that the government of Penang
have not been much more active in illustrating the state
of the Malay peninsula, or even the provinces of Mergui

BORNEO.  59

and its vicinity, to which their attention was particularly
directed in the instructions of the Court of Directors to

the late Mr. Dundas, on establishing the presidency of
Prince of Wales' Island. The want of local information

is, indeed, the rock on which the infant settlements of the

English have at all times been wrecked ; and the fate of

several of our eastern settlements was, so early as the
year 1759, ascribed to this cause, by the author of the

letter on the Negrais expedition : " Colonies and settle
ments of every kind must, at first, be attended with many
difficulties, which, however, a judicious perseverance will

surmount, if there be not some original default in the
establishment. It must be obvious to every one, that the

English never made a settlement in which they were not
impeded by some unforeseen difficulties, so as at last he

quently to make abandoning the infant establishment

appear the most prudent step, without even hoping any

return for the prodigious expense which may have been

incurred by the undertaking. Various reasons," adds that
author, " may be ascribed for this event ; but incapacity in
the person entrusted with the management, and the want
of proper previous examination of the place, seem to me the
most common and most considerable. Without stopping to

inquire how far the want of success in our several attempts
to settle Balambangan may have been fairly attributable to

Ieither of these causes, may safely venture to assert, that

it failed the last time chiefly from its being solely a mili
tary establishment, without either professional merchants

60 BORNEO.

or mercantile adventure being attached to it. The obser

Ivations which have submitted with respect to Malluda,

apply to it chiefly as a territorial establishment ; but there
is no doubt that it would speedily attain commercial im
portance. The contraband trade in spices, which was a
principal object in the former attempts to settle Balam-
bangan, is no longer any object to the English. Many
commercial views, however, which influenced the original
establishment of Balambangan, still exist in equal or supe
rior force, especially those which related to Cochin China,
Champa, and Camboja. There are some additional rea
sons which, perhaps, should require us to direct our
attention towards Cochin China. The present King of
Cochin China is the true heir and only lineal descendant
of the ancient royal family of Siam, which was extirpated
by the Burmans about the year 1765, and is considered as
such by a considerable part of the Siamese nation ; and
as the present Siamese government is weak and distracted,
it has for some years been considered as a very probable
occurrence, that he will soon find or take an opportunity
of asserting his claims to the throne of Siam. Though
this Prince has derived great assistance from the French
in his dominions, on many former occasions, he is ob
viously jealous of all European interference, and may be
considered as more under the influence of the maxims of
Chinese policy than of any European power. He for
merly treated our advances with something more than
marked indifference ; and his disaffection has been so

BORNEO.  61

much increased by the result of some transactions with a
mercantile house in Madras, that he has lately ordered
that no Englishman shall be permitted to set foot in his

country. As it is understood by the Portuguese, the
only nation to whom any considerable degree of inter
course with his dominions is permitted, that he has lately

conquered some districts belonging to the Chinese em
pire, perhaps an overture to a treaty might be made to
him, for the purpose of establishing a tea trade with his
dominions, an object which has formerly been conceived

to be practicable. It is not, however, probable, that any

thing more than a very limited and hampered trade would
ever be permitted with Cochin China ; and this will be

the more apparent, if we consider the slavish and humi

liating manner in which all traffic still is, and has been,
carried on, both with Cochin China and Siam, by the
few ships that frequent their ports from Surat and
Macao, carrying chiefly gold and silver brocades, chintzes,
and the finest cloths of Indian manufacture ; Arabian
gums, and China ware, with the richest silks. On
arriving in port, the most valuable part of the cargo is
immediately presented to the King, who takes as much
as he pleases ; the remaining part is chiefly consumed in
presents to the courtiers and other great men, while the
refuse of the cargo is then permitted to be exposed to
sale. The part which is consumed in presents to the
great men is entire loss : for that which the King receives,
he generally returns a present, which is seldom adequate

                                         M1NDANAWI.

to the value of the goods which he has received ; but by
dint of begging and repeated solicitation, this is some

times increased a little. It is obvious that a trade of

this strange nature is by no means accommodated to the

habits of Englishmen; and I do not hesitate to say, that

it is with the almost unknown countries of Champa and
Camboja alone, that we have much chance of establishing
an advantageous trade, in the present state of affairs ;
and before that can be done to advantage, we must
make ourselves better acquainted with them.

   " This observation might be extended to the Sulu
Archipelago, and the great island of Mindanawi; but
with respect to both of these, there are other considera
tions connected with the extirpation of the eastern pirates
which imperiously demand your Lordship's attention.
The Sulus are a bold and enterprising race, apparently
of the mixed Malay and Philippine breed. They have
had frequent wars with the Spaniards of Manilla, and have
never acknowledged their authority. The Sulu islands
are numerous, but individually of small extent, and
situated between the Philippines and the island of Bor
neo. They have generally adopted the religion of Islam;
and though active and enterprising, are in point of cha
racter extremely vicious, treacherous, and sanguinary.
They are not very numerous, as the inhabitants of the
Sulu islands, in their most flourishing state, could not be

estimated at more than 60,000 souls, and, if we add their

dependencies, at about 100,000 souls. About fifty years

MINDANAWI.  63

ago they were much devoted to commerce, and we had
a commercial resident in Sulu for some time, about the

period of the first settling of Balambangan ; it was soon,

however, found that the government was too weak to yield

any efficient protection, and was forced to be withdrawn.
Since that time it has been subject to constant civil com
motions, and the breaking down of the government has
covered the Sulu seas with fleets of formidable pirates.

   " With respect to the great island of Mindanawi, it is
the original source of the Lanuns, the most formidable of
all the eastern pirates. This island lies between the
Moluccas and the Philippines. The northern coast of

this island is under a precarious subjection to the Spa
niards. The great Lanun bight is occupied by a number
of small chieftains, who have in every age been greatly
addicted to piratical practices. The most powerful state
on the island, however, is that of Mindanawi, governed
by a sultan of the religion of Islam, though the , great
mass of his subjects are pagans, in almost every respect
similar to the aboriginal inhabitants of Borneo. The
state of Mindanawi has repeatedly, on former occasions,

attempted to open an amicable intercourse with the Eng
lish on the most liberal terms. For the present Sultan's

Isentiments, need only refer your Lordship to his own
Iletter lately received, in enclosure No. 8 ; and allude to it

in this place, because, from information received from that

quarter, there is great reason to apprehend that the mili
tary stores which your Lordship despatched to this prince

64 CELEBES.

by Captain Masqucrier, of the brig Jane, have never been

delivered. I am informed that the Mindanawi state is at

present torn with factions, but that the sultan still retains

Ihis authority in a considerable degree ; and have no

doubt that your Lordship's countenance extended to him
would, without much trouble, give it tranquillity and sta
bility, and prevent the Lanuns and pirates being aug
mented by the whole force of Mindanawi, which must be
the inevitable consequence of the breaking up of this
state. Some explanation of the measures which we may
find it necessary to take in this quarter, as well as con
cerning the general maxims of our policy to the eastward,
may probably be due to the Spanish government of
Manilla.

   " With respect to the island of Celebes, and in parti
cular Macassar, its principal settlement, it will be obvious
to your Lordship that the same reasons which induced the
Dutch to occupy and retain it do not exist for the Eng
lish. From its situation in the vicinity of the spice-
islands, and from the spirit of the tribes which inhabit it,

their activity and commercial turn, this island has long
been a subject of such jealousy to the Dutch, that they
have been content to support upon it a losing establish
ment, for the purpose of repressing the native trade of the
inhabitants, and preventing other European nations from
forming establishments upon it. But though the Dutch
establishment at Macassar was a losing concern in the
hands of that government, it is by no means obvious that

         CELEBES.     55

this would be the case under a different system of ma

nagement ; the high population of the island, the riches
of many individuals, and their expensive taste in dress

and other luxuries, would seem to indicate precisely the

contrary. It is possible, therefore, that various weighty

reasons may be found, independent of the motives which

influenced the Dutch, to induce us to retain their esta

blishments on Celebes, or even to enlarge them. Even

in its present state, the island of Celebes may be reckoned

populous, if compared with many of the islands of the
east. It has, however, greatly declined since it was

settled by the Hollanders, who have not only followed

their constant practice of fomenting civil wars, and exciting
rebellions and commotions of every kind in Celebes, but

have encouraged and carried to a greater extent the

traffic of slaves than in almost any other of their eastern

possessions. About the period of the first arrival of

Europeans in the east, the Macassar and Bugis tribes

were among the principal dealers in spices, and the island
of Celebes was nearly tinder the authority of a single

sovereign. On the breaking down of this great empire,

several lesser states rose from its ruins. By exciting

dissensions among these states, and aiding one against

another, the Dutch at last contrived to render all the

states of the island subservient to their views. The policy

Iwhich conjecture we shall subsequently find it proper to

follow is exactly the opposite of this. We may, with

great facility, and without much trouble, employ our

vol. I.            v

GG CELEBES.

influence and mediation to heal the dissensions of the
native princes, to establish firmly ancient territories,
check innovations, and prevent civil wars as much as lies
in our power ; at the same time seizing every opportunity
of prevailing on them to discourage and abandon the de
structive traffic in slaves. To this nefarious trade, which
has desolated this island, as well as all the small islands

in its vicinity, the Bugis men and Macassar men have in
a great measure been driven by the monopolies of the
Dutch, which have, in a great degree, driven the fair mer
chants from the seas, and left the main to kidnappers and
pirates. The increase of security in the country will pro
duce the increase both of wealth and population, which
will of course cause an increase of the consumption of
opium, piece-goods, and other Indian commodities. Had
it not been for the contraband trade which the English
carried on at almost all times with the states of Wajjo and
Mandhar, little doubt can be entertained that the trade of
Macassar, in these articles alone, would have compensated
the loss which the Dutch assert that they have always
sustained from this establishment. Notwithstanding some
late disagreements of the English with the Bugis tribes,
arising from the impossibility of explaining to the eastern

Inations the English system of blockade, do not hesitate

to affirm, that the inhabitants of Celebes are generally
well affected to the English nation, to which they have
always had a strong attachment ; and, since my return to

IMalacca, have, to a considerable extent, in several in

.IELOLO.  67

stances, derived essential advantage from the exertion of
some of their most respectable traders, in communicating
with the native princes. The effect of a liberal line of
conduct and policy adopted towards the tribes of Celebes,

would certainly be to create a powerful and active nation

in the centre of the eastern islands, attached to the Eng
lish by benefits, and looking to them in a great measure
for protection --who, without becoming formidable to our

selves, might easily be rendered formidable to any other

nation.

   " There is likewise another consideration with regard to
Celebes which deserves attention. The Macassar and

Bugis tribes are the most bold, adventurous, and enter
prising of all the eastern nations, and extremely addicted
to a military life. They are equally celebrated for their
fidelity and their courage, and for this reason they have
long been employed, as the Swiss in Europe, not only in
the armies of Siam, Camboja, and other countries, but
also as the guards of their princes. They can be recruited
with facility, and easily submit to military discipline; and
it is probable that better mercenaries could not be found
for maintaining several of our Oriental possessions.

  I" The observations that have taken the liberty of

suggesting to your Lordship respecting the island of
Celebes, apply with nearly equal force to the island Jelolo,
or Halamahera, which is situated between the Moluccas
and the Papua Islands, as Celebes itself is situated
between the Moluccas and Borneo. Jelolo has some

(58 CKLKRKS --JF.LOLO.

times, from its form, been denominated Little Celebes;

with the western coast of this island we are at present

little acquainted ; but the inhabitants of the western

coasts, especially those of Osso and Maba, with their
Sovereign, the son of our old ally the Sultan of Tidore,

have lately taken every means of evincing their tried

attachment to the English nation. It appears they

have lately afforded every sort of supply, in the most

liberal way, to some English whalers, and are proud

to declare, on all occasions, that they owe their existence

to the liberal supplies which your Lordship was pleased

to afford them in their extreme necessity. This nation,

like those of Bali and Bugis-land, seems worth the

encouraging ; and the determined perseverance with

which they opposed themselves to all the efforts of the

Dutch and their auxiliaries, cannot fail to excite the

sympathies of the English nation. The three islands
of Bali, Celebes, and Jelolo, occupy the most command

ing positions in the centre of different groups of islands,

and each of them, without becoming formidable to our

selves, is capable of being rendered extremely formidable,

through our means, to any other European power. The

different nations which occupy them have always been

particularly attached to the English ; and no European
nation, with the exception of the Dutch in Macassar,

have claims on any considerable portion of their terri

Itories.  therefore beg leave to submit to your Lord

ship's particular consideration, whether or not every

JAPAN.  69

practical means which may tend to attach and affiliate
these nations to the English will not materially tend
to strengthen our interest to the eastward, and even
tend to render our influence permanent in these regions,
and independent of any arrangement which may take

place subsequent to a general peace.
   " The only remaining Dutch possession to which it is

necessary at present to request your Lordship's attention

is the factory at Japan. The information which I have

been able to procure relative to this factory is of a
general nature ; and my observations, therefore, shall be
confined to a very slight sketch of its general manage
ment. The empire of Japan has for a long period adopted
and carried into effect all the exclusive maxims of Chinese

policy with a degree of rigour unknown even in China
itself. Previous to the expulsion of the Portuguese and
the extirpation of Christianity in the latter part of the

seventeenth century, the Japanese trade was reckoned by
far the most advantageous which could be pursued in the
East, and very much superior to either the Indian or
Chinese trade. After the expulsion of the Portuguese, a
very extensive trade was for some time permitted to be
carried on by the Dutch, on account of the benefits which

the Japanese conceived they had received from that
nation during the Portuguese war, and especially the
detection of a formidable conspiracy of some of the
Japanese princes to dethrone the emperor, which was

detected by the Dutch intercepting the ship which con

70 JAPAN.

veyed the correspondence of the conspirators. It was

for these reasons that the Dutch originally procured the
imperial edict by which they were permitted to trade to
Japan, to the exclusion of all other European nations.
This public act of their ancestors the Japanese have
repeatedly declared that they will not cancel, but they
have done every thing but formally cancel, for a more
limited and less free trade was never carried on by one
rich nation to another. For more than half a century,
the Dutch trade has been limited to two yearly ships from
Batavia, the cargoes of both of which scarcely ever exceed
200,000 dollars, and their only profitable returns are in

Japan copper, and a small quantity of camphor. To

show themselves impartial in their restrictions, the
Japanese have limited the traffic of the Chinese, the
only eastern nation whom they suffer to trade with
them at all, in a similar manner to that of the Dutch,
and they suffer no more than six Chinese junks to
visit Nangasaki in the year. The trade of the two
favoured nations, the Dutch and the Chinese, is also

limited to the single port of Nangasaki. In pursuance
of their exclusive maxims, and conformably to the terms
of their agreement with the Dutch, the Japanese have on
every occasion followed an uniform line of conduct, and
rejected in the most peremptory manner the various
overtures of different nations of Europe, refusing equally

to have any intercourse, negociations, or commerce with
any of them : it must also be admitted that the whole

JAPAN.  71

foreign trade of Japan, compared with the riches of the
country, is absolutely trifling; nor is there any rich or
powerful body of men, like the Hong merchants of
China, at all interested in its continuance. The yearly
presents, whether offered to the governor of Nangasaki
or the emperor, are of no great value, and rigidly
limited by law and usage; and as the government of
Japan is much stronger and more vigilant than that of
China, no such abuses can be ventured on at Nangasaki
as take place at Canton. From these reasons there is

great cause to think that, if the Japanese fully compre

hended the nature of the events which have taken place
in Holland and now threaten Batavia, all intercourse

between the Japanese and Europeans would imme
diately be brought to a termination. The Japanese con
ceive that they have entered into engagements with the
Dutch only while they exist as a nation, and there is the
utmost reason to think that in the event of the Dutch

merging in any other nation they would by no means
consider these engagements as of any force. Their
foreign trade supplies them with no articles of imperious
necessity, and is of no advantage to any great national
body. Indeed the only persons who have any serious
interest in it is the corps of Dutch interpreters, a small
 body who follow this hereditary occupation, and have no
 important influence in the state, and who are required
 to study Dutch, and to transact business in it, in order
 that Europeans may have no occasion or opportunity

72 JAPAN.

of acquiring the Japanese language : as Japan, how
ever, is almost totally secluded from the rest of the

world, it is* not probable that these events will be

speedily communicated to them by the Dutch factory,

A more probable event is that, immediately on the fall

of the Island of Java, the Dutch factory at Canton will
endeavour to avail themselves of the opening, in con
junction with the Americans, and perhaps the Portu
guese, to invest a part of their dormant capital for

the Japan market, and advise the Dutch factory of

JaNangasaki to keep up the deception, and put the

panese on their guard against the overtures of the
English. Certain it is that in the case of Japan our
superior force can be of no avail to us, but rather, on
the contrary, may excite the greater jealousy.

   " The situation of the Dutch factory at Japan is very
similar to that at Canton in China, which, as far as
regards the establishment in China, may survive all
the disasters of both Batavia and the mother country.
The Japanese are acquainted with the English, but
they have only become acquainted with them from the
Portuguese and the Dutch, both of whom were inte
rested in engrossing the Japan trade, and have there
fore, no doubt, taken care to prepossess the Japanese
in the strongest manner against the English. Indeed,
when Captain Pellew visited Nangasaki, about three
years ago, though he might have plundered the Dutch
factory had it contained anything valuable, he found

JAPAN.                         73

that the Japanese would listen to no overtures of inter

course : about the same time they rejected, with equal

steadiness, the Russian embassy despatched directly to
Japan, refusing equally to admit of any overtures on

the part of the Russians, and to accept of the valuable

presents brought by the ambassador. The same fate

has attended some late attempts of the Americans to

Iestablish an intercourse with Japan ; and am strongly

of opinion that there is not the least reason to hope

that any of our overtures would meet with a more

favourable reception, if not supported by the repre

sentations of the Dutch who are at present residents

Iin the factory at Nangasaki.  therefore beg leave to

state to your Lordship, as my decided opinion, that

the only chance which we have for retaining the Japanese

trade, is by gaining to our interest the present Dutch

residents at Japan, and the Japanese corps of Dutch
interpreters, at whatever price it may cost. With respect

to the means by which this may be best accomplished,

it is probable that better information than we yet pos

sess may be procured at Batavia, before it become neces

sary to despatch the yearly vessel for Japan, which is
about the beginning of March. Every precaution must

doubtless be used to secure the reception of an English

agent in the first place, and to make the transition
as imperceptible as possible from the Dutch to the

English. The last Japanese invoices of articles re

quired by the Board of Trade will be found at Batavia,

74 POLICY OF THE DUTCH.

and may be answered exactly ; and it will be requisite

for the English agent, if received at all, to reside in

Japan till the return of the ship next season, according
to the Dutch ceremonial ; and if in the interim he could

acquire the Japanese language, and ingratiate himself
with the Bonzes, or religious of the Buddhist sects, much

might probably be done to open the Japanese trade on a

more liberal scale, especially during the yearly journey

to the court of the emperor, when the Japanese nobles

and princes are accustomed to visit the envoy in disguise.
With regard to the present Japanese trade, it certainly is

by no means equal to that of many neglected countries in
Asia ; but the principal inducement to make efforts for its

continuance is the prospect of its being opened on a more

extensive scale ; an event which is very likely to be accele

rated by the aggressions of Russia on the Kurile Islands,
which properly belong to Japan, and several of which

the Russians have already reduced.
   " Having thus stated to your Lordship the foregoing

observations on specific topics connected with the acqui

sition of Java, and the fall of the Dutch possessions to

Ithe eastward,  shall now briefly advert to some more

general views, which appear to be inseparably connected

with them, and seem entitled to early attention.

   " The annexation of Java and the Eastern Isles to our

Indian empire opens to the English nation views of so

enlarged a nature, as seem equally to demand and justify

a bolder policy, both of a commercial and political kind,

POLICY OF THE DUTCH.  75

than we could have lately contemplated. The countries
which must, directly or indirectly, fall under our influence
and authority, form a range of possessions which, with in
tervals of no great importance, extend nearly from the
Bay of Bengal to our settlements on the continent of
New Holland. These are occupied, excepting where the
Dutch have taken the territorial possession into their own
hands, by several small groups of principalities, none of
which, taken separately, have any pretensions to the rank
of a powerful or independent state. The tribes of which
they are composed, though varying radically in customs,
manners, religion, and language, and possessing very dif
ferent degrees of civilization, have long been confounded
by Europeans under the general appellation of Malays, a

term which may still be retained for convenience. It may

be safely affirmed, that about the period when the Euro
peans first began to frequent these countries, they were
not only much more populous, but the governments were
more strong and steady, and the inhabitants in general
much farther advanced in civilization. The Dutch, solely
attentive to their own commercial interests, have, in their

intercourse with these regions, invariably adhered to a
more cold-blooded, illiberal, and ungenerous policy, than
has ever been exhibited towards any country, unless we
except the conduct of the European nations towards the

slave-coast of Africa. In some instances, as in the case

of the clusters of the Isles of Banda, the original inha
bitants, when they opposed a resolute resistance to their

76 POLICY OF THE DUTCH.

encroachments, have been entirely extirpated. Whenever
the natives have displayed great courage and magna
nimity of character, as in the case of the Macassars of
Guah, and the Bugis of Soping, these natives have been
hunted down with a perseverance worthy of a better
cause. Indeed, the domination of the Dutch in the

Malay countries seems to have been maintained in direct
opposition to all principles of natural justice and sound
policy, and which amply deserves a degree of reprobation
little short of their transactions at Amboyna and Batavia,
with regard to the English. But however their policy

Imay be characterized, apprehend that their claims to

territorial right in the Eastern Isles, in which all the
nations of Europe have so long and so blindly acquiesced,
will be found to be very much inferior to what is generally
supposed, unless, perhaps, in the Isle of Java itself. As
their claims, of whatsoever kind, must now revert to the
French nation, it will be of the utmost importance to
ascertain from the original Dutch records, how far their
territorial cessions and exclusive privileges do actually
extend; also, how far these are absolute, and how far
revocable ; and, in short, to obtain a complete code of the
Dutch treaties with all the Malay princes, since the first
commencement of their establishments in the Eastern
Isles. The diplomatic importance of such a code will be
readily recognized by your Lordship; and in the event
of any future negociations in Europe, may prove of the
most essential importance. The line of policy which on

POLICY OF THE ENGLISH.  77

the present occasion we ought to adopt towards the Malay
states should be as uniform in its features, and compre
hensive in its extent, as possible. The various groups of
states to which what may be emphatically termed our
Malay policy may extend are the following :--

   " 1st. The states of the Malay peninsula. 2nd. The
states of the Island of Sumatra. 3rd. The states of the

Island of Borneo. 4th. The states of the Sunda Isles,

comprehending the chain of islands which extend from
the Straits of Sunda to Timor and Celebes, exclusive of
Java, which we may except for the present. 5th. The
states of Celebes. 6th. The states of Sulu and Minda-

nawi. 7th. The states of the Moluccas, comprehending
Ceram and Banda. 8th. The states of Jelolo, or Little
Celebes. 9th. The Black Papua states of New Guinea,
and the Papua Islands in its vicinity.

  I" These states shall only enumerate here, as requiring

distinct reports on the nature of their connexion with the

Dutch, or, as we may now state it, with the French ; after

which, it will probably appear to be our soundest policy to
form the most intimate connexions, by treaty, with those

which have indisputable pretensions to independence.

IThis policy will, flatter myself, appear obvious, whether

we contemplate the maintaining the Malay isles in per
manent possession, or the possible transferring of the
Dutch possessions to the enemy in the event of a peace
in Europe : in the event of the first alternative, it will

enable us to turn these possessions to the greatest ad

7S POLICY OF THE ENGLISH.

vantage, whether a respect be had to our European trade,

or the general benefit of our Indian possessions. In the
event of the second, we shall secure such a footing among

the Eastern Isles, and such a favourable regard among
the bravest ' races, as will baffle all the attempts of the
enemy to dislodge us. By fixing ourselves in Banca,
Bali, Celebes, and Jelolo, we should have a chain of posts
which would prevent the enemy entirely from attaining
very formidable power, or deriving his former advantages
from the possession of Java and the Moluccas ; and by
forming a settlement in Borneo, connected with the inte
rior of that country, so fertile, and so rich in the precious
metals, we should soon be in a condition to compete with

Ithem on equal terms. The whole of the states which

have now specified have been so much accustomed to
European interference and control, that the greater part
of them are by no means fitted for the enjoyment of a fair
and liberal independence, nor are they likely to become so
for a series of years. At the same time, the treatment
which they have experienced from the Dutch has been in
general so extremely galling and oppressive, that a more
liberal policy can hardly fail of conciliating their affections
in a high degree ; sufficiently conscious of their inability
to stand alone, and warned by the breaking up of some of
the oldest and most powerful states, they would gladly
ally themselves to so powerful a nation as the English on
anything like fair and equitable terms, by which they
might be secured from civil commotions and the oppres

POLICY OF THE ENGLISH.  79

sion of foreigners, without being deprived of all their
natural advantages, as under the Dutch domination.
Now, as our principal political embarrassment with re
gard to Java and the Eastern Isles arises from the
danger of these being given up to the enemy, in the

Ievent of a peace in Europe, beg leave to suggest to

your Lordship a method of avoiding a part of this danger,

which by no means appears impossible or even arduous

to carry into execution, though it is not likely to occur to
the Malay chiefs, unless it should be suggested to them.
In ancient times, the Malay chiefs, though possessing the
titles of Sultan, or Rajah, and in full possession of au
thority within their own domains, yet all held of a supe
rior, or Suzerain, who was King of the ancient and power
ful state of Majopahit, on the island of Java, and who
had the title of Bitara. Malacca was one of the first states

that shook off this allegiance, and became in the end so
powerful as to hold a great part of the Malay peninsula,
and of the opposite coast of Sumatra, in a similar depend
ence, though the sovereigns of these states retained the
titles of Rajahs, or Sultans, and exercised their authority
within their own territories. Now, though the present
Malay chiefs are jealous and punctilious in a high degree
about their own titles, they are by no means equally so
respecting holding of a superior whose title would save

Itheir own dignity ; and, conceive, they might easily be

prevailed upon by suggestions to invest the Governor-
General of India with the ancient title of Bitara, equiva

  80 POLICY OF THE ENGLISH.

 lent to Lord Protector, which has become obsolete among

 Ithem for nearly three centuries, and which would not,

 conceive, be reckoned injurious to the dignity of any
 modern chieftain, whatever titles and epithets he might
 bear. This would give a general right of superintendence
 over, and interference with, all the Malay states, which
 might be acted upon when circumstances should render it
 necessary ; and might be so limited by treaty, as to re
 move any occasion of suspicion from the native powers.

 It is of importance, however, that this should appear to be

 the spontaneous and voluntary act of the Malay chieftains,
 as by this means it would be less liable to modification, in
the event of any treaty which may be concluded in Europe

Iwith the enemy ; but shall here confine myself solely to

the bare statement of the idea, and leave for future con

 sideration its different limitations, and the means which

might be proposed for carrying it into execution.

   '' In the districts that may be reduced under the sole

authority of the English, little doubt can be entertained
that we shall best consult our own interests by a line of
policy radically different from that of the Dutch. In all
the eastern Dutch settlements, their favourite policy has

been to depress the native Malay or Javanese inhabitants,
and give every encouragement to the Chinese, who are
only itinerants, and not children of the soil, and who
follow the general practice of remitting the fruits of their
industry to China, instead of spending them where they
were acquired. The Chinese, in all ages equally supple,

         CHINESE IN JAVA.     81

venal, and crafty, failed not at a very early period to

recommend themselves to the equally crafty, venal, and

speculating Hollanders. They have, almost from the

first, been the agents of the Dutch, and in the island of

Java, in particular, they have almost acquired the entire

monopoly of revenue farms and government contracts.

At present many of the most respectable Dutch families

are intimately connected with the Chinese in their con

tracts and speculations ; and it is only very lately that

Marshal Daendels sold the whole provinces of Pasuki to

the Capitan China, or head Chinaman of Surabaya. It

is even rumoured that this is not the only instance in

which the Marshal has assigned whole provinces over to

the unfeeling oppression of the Chinese, for the purpose

of raising temporary resources in money. The Chinese
have, in Java, been generally left to their own laws, and

the regulations of their own chiefs; and being merely

temporary residents in the country, they devote them

selves entirely to the accumulation of wealth, without

being very scrupulous concerning the means. When,

therefore, they acquire grants of land, they always con

trive to reduce the peasants speedily to the condition of

slaves. The improvement of the people, which has never

been an object with the Dutch, is much less so with the

Chinese ; and the oppression which they have exercised

in the vicinity of Batavia has not failed to open the eyes

of the Dutch themselves. A late report of the counsel

lors of Batavia on this subject accordingly states, that

VOL. I.                    G

82 CHINESE IN JAVA.

' Although the Chinese, as being the most diligent and

industrious settlers, should be the most useful, they are,

on the contrary, become a very dangerous people, and are

to be remarked as a pest to the country ; and that there

appears to be no radical cure for this evil but their exter

mination from the interior, a measure which cannot now

be effected.' Of the degree of oppression which they are

in the habit of exercising towards the peasants, some idea
may be formed from the following fact :--The staple grain

of Java is rice, and the established rate of ground-rent for

rice-grounds in Java is l-10th of the crop. Wherever

the Chinese are the land-holders, however, they exact, as

rent, 5-8ths of the produce of the ground. Wherever

they have formed extensive settlements in Java, accord

ingly, the native Javanese have no alternative but that of

abandoning the district, or becoming slaves of the soil ;

besides, the monopolizing spirit of the Chinese frequently

exercises a very pernicious control over the necessaries of

life, and the produce of the soil, even in the vicinity of

IfBatavia.  we consider the suppleness and insinuating

address of the Chinese, how apt they are on all occasions

to curry favour, how ready they are to proffer assistance

when there is no danger, and when they perceive that it

falls in with their own interest, we may depend upon their

utmost efforts being used to ingratiate themselves with

the English. It is, therefore, of the greatest importance

to be early on our guard against this pernicious and in

creasing influence, which preys on the very vitals of the

         ARABS IN THE MALAY STATES.      83

country, draining and exhausting it for the benefit of
China. In all the Malay states, the Chinese have made

every effort to get into their hands the farming of the port

duties, and this has generally proved the ruin of the

trade. In addition to these circumstances, it should be

recollected that the Chinese, from their peculiar language
and manners, form a kind of separate society in every

place where they settle, which gives them great advantage

over every competitor in arranging monopolies of trade.

It also gives them an opportunity of aspiring after

political ascendancy, which they have often acquired in

the inferior Malay states. This ascendancy of the Chi

nese, whether of a commercial or political nature, should

be cautiously guarded against and restrained; and this

perhaps cannot be better done than by bringing

forward the native population of Malays and Java

nese, and encouraging them in useful and industrious

habits.

I" The observations which  have suggested to your

Lordship regarding the Chinese are in a high degree
applicable to the Arabs who frequent the Malay countries,

and, under the specious mask of religion, prey on the

simple, unsuspicious natives. The Chinese must, at all

events, be admitted to be industrious ; but the Arabs are

mere drones, useless and idle consumers of the produce of

the ground, affecting to be descendants of the Prophet,

and the most eminent of his followers, when in reality

they are commonly nothing more than manumitted slaves :

                                     a2

84 ARABS IN THE MALAY STATES.

they worm themselves into the favour of the Malay chiefs,
and often procure the highest offices in the Malay states.
They hold like robbers the offices they obtain as syco
phants, and cover all with the sanctimonious veil of
religious hypocrisy. Under the pretext of instructing
the Malays in the principles of the Mahomedan religion,
they inculcate the most intolerant bigotry, and render
them incapable of receiving any species of useful know

ledge. It is seldom that the East is visited by Arabian

merchants of large capital, but there are numerous adven
turers who carry on a coasting-trade from port to port ;
and by asserting the religious titles of Sheikh and Seyyad,
claim, and generally obtain, an exemption from all port
duties in the Malay states. They are also very frequently
concerned in acts of piracy, and great promoters of the
slave trade. This class of adventurers it will be our ob
ject sedulously to repress, but a regulated trade with any
of the commercial states of Arabia, as Muscat, Mocha, or
Jidda, may prove extremely advantageous to the Malay
countries. The old Sultan of Pontiana, who was on his
guard against the machinations of the Chinese, and took
effectual means to prevent their either farming his port
duties or engrossing his trade, suffered himself to be con
stantly circumvented and duped by the Arab adventurers
who frequented Pontiana. The errors of the father, how
ever, have served in some degree to open the eyes of his
son, the present Sultan ; yet he still continues to suffer
Arab traders, direct from Arabia, to trade at Pontiana,

AMERICANS.                                            85

duty free ; and last year this port was visited by two Arab

vessels direct from Muscat. This may serve, in some de

gree, to illustrate the necessity of our establishing an

equal and uniform system of port regulations through the

whole of the Malay countries ; for if the Chinese, on the

one hand, are permitted to farm import and export duties,

in different ports, they have every facility allowed them to

form combinations, in order to secure a monopoly to Chi

if,nese traders ; and on the other hand, the Arabs, under
                                                  is
religious pretext, are entirely exempted from duties, they

may baffle all competition, and the Malay countries will

inevitably be exhausted and drained, and the English

deprived of the fruits of conquest merely to the advantage

of two foreign nations, that are equally devoid of claims
on the English and the Malays. Let the Chinese and the

Arabs, as well as the Americans, trade to the eastward,

but let their trade be regulated, and above all, let them

not be left in the enjoyment of exemptions and advan

tages which are neither possessed by the English nor the

Malays. Since the reduction of the Dutch influence in

the East, several of the ports formerly dependant on them

have almost become Arab colonies, as Palembang, Trin-

gano, and Telawany on Sumbawa. The evil               obvi

ously increasing every day, and can only be checked

by encouraging the native Malays, and regulating on
equal terms the duties of the Malay and other eastern

ports.
   " Another class of commercial interlopers, who will re

si; AMERICANS.

quire our vigilant attention, is the Americans. Previous

to the late embargo they were beginning to frequent the
islands of Ccram, Goram, and Ccram Laut, with other

islands to the eastward of the Moluccas, for the purpose

of picking up articles for the Chinese market, such as

birds'-nests, sea-slug, or tripang, tortoiseshell, &C., and

occasionally engaging in the contraband trade of spices.
Of late they have become still better acquainted with

many of these islands, from their vessels having been em

Ifployed by the Dutch.  such active and enterprising

traders, who are certainly not particularly well affected to

the English, be permitted to trade to the Eastern islands

on equal terms with the English, it will inevitably be in

jurious to our commercial interests. But if they are

permitted the free range of the Archipelago, perhaps

it would be difficult to devise a measure more injurious

to our political influence, as well as our commercial

interests. The Americans, wherever they go, as they

have no object but commercial adventure, and as fire

arms are in the highest request, especially among the

more Eastern isles, these would be considered as the

most profitable articles. They have already filled the
different clusters of islands in the South Seas with

fire-arms, and they would not fail to do the same in
the different Eastern islands. These considerations

seem obviously to point to a line of policy respect
ing the trade of the Eastern islands, which in some

respects coincides closely with that adopted by the Dutch,

DUTCH MONOPOLY.  87

while in others it differs from it entirely in ultimate prin

ciples.

   " In many respects, the commercial policy adopted by
the Dutch, with regard to the Eastern islands, and the
Malay states in general, was not only contrary to all prin
ciples of natural justice, and unworthy of any enlightened
and civilized nation, but characterized by a degree of ab
surdity, for which it was scarcely worth taking the trouble
of being so preposterously wicked. Thus in the Dutch
orders, respecting trade and navigation, in the very first
article it is stated, that ' All persons whatever are pro
hibited, under pain of death, from trading in the four fine
kinds of spices, unless such spices shall first have been
brought from the Company.' After the enactment of a

penalty so outrageously disproportioned to the offence,
the authentic accounts of their attempts to destroy and
eradicate from a vast range of extensive countries the
most advantageous produce of the land, in order to favour

their own petty traffic, and their burning a large propor
tion of the residue, in order to keep Up their monopoly
price in Europe on a small proportion of this produce,
must be viewed, by all liberal-minded and intelligent
men, with sentiments of equal contempt and detestation.
Against errors of this kind, your Lordship's presence in
the East will be an effectual preventive ; but it may still
be questioned whether, in the present state of these coun
tries, it may not be necessary, in the first instance, to
retain some traits of Dutch policy. One feature of Dutch

88 DUTCH MONOPOLY.

policy to the eastward seems to have been the entire ex

clusion of all other powers, whether native or European,

excepting at certain specified ports, under their own imme
diate influence and control. This policy was as much
connected with the political government of the country as
with the commercial profits of the Company : for in an

Archipelago of such an unparalleled extent, inhabited by

tribes of such various character, formidable in a high de
gree from their very want of civilization, it was necessary
to bring forward some of the most powerful and most
favourably-situated of these numerous states, and to hold
them answerable for the proceedings of the smaller dis

tricts under their influence. This policy gave rise to the

establishment of certain regular and determined trading-

ports, and the vigilant suppression of all attempts at com
petition and independence in the inferior states. Had

this measure been conjoined with a liberal policy, tending
to facilitate the home trade, as we denominate it, between

these privileged ports established by the Dutch and the

Ivarious countries under their influence,  apprehend that

little doubt can be entertained that it would have tended

materially to promote the civilization and general im
provement of all the Eastern nations. Very different,

however, was the object of the Dutch agreements with the

different Rajahs of the Eastern Archipelago. In some

cases it was to secure a monopoly of all the tin, pepper,
camphor, or other saleable articles that the country pro
duced ; in another, it was to bind the chiefs of the country

DUTCH MONOPOLY.  89

to destroy the only saleable articles that the country pro
duced, lest the monopoly price of the Dutch should be

injured by a greater quantity of such produce being
brought to market. The Dutch genius, though exclu
sively devoted to commerce, has never yet been able to
discover, that in the long-run it must be more profitable
' to make smaller profits on a larger capital, than larger
profits on a smaller capital ;' and their policy has been
not unaptly compared to a man putting out one of his
eyes, in order to strengthen the sight of the other.
Against the policy of establishing certain determinate
and regular ports as emporiums of trade, it does not
appear to me that there are any valid objections to be

Istated ; and therefore submit this measure to your Lord

ship's consideration, as the most effectual method of pre
venting the Eastern islands from being overrun by a
multitude of unprincipled adventurers, chiefly Chinese,
Arabian, and American, whose presence in these coun
tries will neither tend to strengthen the interest of
the British nation, nor ameliorate the condition of the

natives.

   If" this measure, however, should approve itself to

your Lordship, it may still be proper to inquire, in what
respects our policy may be considered as superior to
that of the Dutch, and how it is calculated to promote
the improvement and advantage of the Malay nations

in a higher degree than theirs. It must be admitted

that the policy which we have hitherto pursued, with

00 NEGLECT OF THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT.

regard to the Malay nations, has been by no means of
a conciliating or prepossessing nature. Our intercourse
with them has been carried on almost exclusively by
adventurers little acquainted with either the country or
people, who have frequently been more remarkable for
boldness than principle. Indeed, the want of any settled
basis of traffic, and the long indifference of the British
government to the complaints of either party, had pro

duced so many impositions, reprisals, piracies, and mur
ders, that it has fairly been observed, that every eastern
trader must have been himself very much in the situation
of a trader in spirits, tobacco, and blankets among the

Indians of North America. It was properly remarked

by Mr. Farquhar, in his report on Prince of Wales'
Island, that this indifference of the British government
must have originated solely from the want of information,
or from its incorrectness, since little doubt can be enter
tained that the riches of Sumatra and Borneo are equal to
either Brazil or South America, and it is only from the
disadvantages under which we have hitherto entered into
the competition that these great sources of wealth have
been so long engrossed by the Dutch, Spaniards, and
Chinese. But this previous neglect of the British govern
ment we may confidently expect will form no rule for the
future, and the benefits which the Malay nations may
derive from a close connection with the British government
and nation are such as there is no probability of their
ever deriving from the French or Dutch.

NEGLECT OF THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT.  91

   "The doctrine that a colony should always be con
sidered as a distant province of the mother country could

never have been received by the Dutch, and the radical
want of strength in the government of Batavia must

always have prevented them from venturing to act upon it.

Of course they must always have contemplated the pros
perity of the Eastern tribes with the invidious regret of a
rival shopkeeper, and regarded their progress in civi
lization with the jealousy of a timorous despot, which,
in point of fact, we know they actually did. The power
of the English in the East enables them to employ a less

timid policy; humanity imperiously requires that they
should employ it, and fortunately their own interest coin
cides with these as an additional inducement.

    " The causes which have tended most to the depression
of the Malays, and the deterioration of their character,
are the following :--the civil commotions to which every
state is liable from the radical want of strength in the

sovereign, and the constant wars between petty chieftains,
and heads of villages or districts : the ill-defined suc
cession to the throne, from the doctrine of primogeniture
being imperfectly recognized in the Malay states : the
prevalence of piracy in all the eastern seas : the system
of domestic slavery, with all its concomitant evils, as wars
for the purpose of procuring slaves, and the want of

general confidence between family and family, man and
man : the want of a generally established and recognized
 system of laws regarding all questions, civil and criminal.

92 FEUDAL WARS IN THE MALAY STATES.

in the Malay states : the want of a similar system of com
mercial regulations respecting port duties, anchorage,
and other charges, to prevent arbitrary exactions in the
various Malay ports : the discouragement given to regular
trade by the monopolies of the Malay Rajahs : the
redress of these evils is, in a great measure, in the power
of the English nation ; it is worthy of their general
character, and there is no other nation that possesses

the means in an equal degree, even if it possessed the

inclination.

   "With regard to the feudal wars of petty chieftains,

and the civil commotions which constantly agitate the
Malay states, these have been greatly increased by the
policy of the Dutch, whose authority has been in a great
measure maintained and supported by the dissensions
which they were in the habit of exciting in the more

powerful Malay states. In consequence of this, we find

that scarcely a single powerful state now subsists, which
was in existence when the Dutch settled in the East.
This, however, must not be entirely imputed to the
machinations of the Dutch, but originates in part from
such radical defects in Mahomedan law. The prin
cipal of these are, the expiation of murder by paying
the price of blood, and a fine to the prince ; and the want
of an express provision in law against treason and rebel
lion, and the consequent opinion which is generally enter
tained among Moslems, that whoever possesses the power
of assuming independence possesses the right of declaring

PIRACY SLAVERY.  93

it. This evil may be easily corrected by supporting the
legitimate authority by our influence, and by that means
subjecting the private quarrels of head-men gradually to
the general system of established law.

   " The want of a well-defined rule of succession to the
government in the families of the Malay Rajahs is con
stantly productive of innumerable parties, divisions, and
civil agitations in every state. This, however, is an evil

common to all governments where the Mahomedan reli
gion prevails, though its evils are most felt in a compara
tively rude state of society, such as exists in the Malay
countries. The evil was prevented effectually during
the Dutch domination, by their assuming the paramount
right of granting investiture to every prince who suc

ceeded to the government of a country ; and if such a

Iplan, as have alluded to, were to be adopted by the

English, a similar policy, either by granting investiture,

or by recognizing the heir apparent, would naturally

require to be followed. A regulation of this kind, I

have the utmost reason for thinking, would be highly
acceptable to all the Malay nations : for among a great
number of them, at present, the death of a prince is

regarded with horror by all his subjects, as the signal
for intestine war, ruin, and devastation.

   " Of the prevalence of piracy on the Malay coast, and

its being regarded as an honourable occupation, worthy

of being followed by young princes and nobles, I have

already had occasion to speak. This is an evil of ancient

94 PIRACY SLAVERY.

date, and which has struck deep in the Malay habits.
The old Malay romances, and the fragments of their
traditional history, constantly refer to piratical cruises.

IIn addition to the cases which have already enumerated,

it may be proper to add, that the state of the Eastern
population, and the intolerant spirit of the religion of

Islam, have eminently tended to increase this practice.
The Arab Sheikhs and Scyyads, whatever doctrines they

failed to inculcate, did not neglect the propagation of
one, the merit of plundering and massacring the infidels ;

an abominable tenet, which has tended more than all the
rest of the Alcoran to the propagation of this robber-reli
gion. Numerous and various are the tribes of the
Eastern Isles which have not embraced the religion of
Islam to this day, and consequently are reckoned infidels.

All the great nations of the continent are in the same

predicament as the Siamese, Cochin-Chinese, and Chinese
themselves. Cruises against the infidels were, and are,
constantly certain of receiving the approbation of all
the Arab teachers settled in the Malay countries. The
practice of piracy, however, is now an evil too extensive
and formidable to be cured by reasoning, and must, at all
events, be put down by a strong hand ; though precau
tions against its recurrence may be taken in the system
which shall be adopted with regard to the Malay states,
by rendering every chieftain answerable for his own terri
tory, and punishing in an exemplary manner refrac
tory chiefs.

SLAVERY.  95

   " Connected with this evil, though of much wider
extent, is the system of slavery in the Malay countries,
which, to apply the energetic language of Mr. Pitt to
this subject, ' has been none of the least efficient causes of
keeping down these regions in a state of bondage, igno

rance, and blood.' On the grand evils of the system
of slavery, and its necessary concomitant, the man-trade,
and its pernicious consequences, whether personal or civil,
social or domestic, it is fortunately, at the present period,
unnecessary to expatiate, since, by the late ' Act for the
Abolition of the Slave Trade,' that system of crimes is
prohibited in all territories in his Majesty's possession
or occupation. In the beginning of the year 1806, the
Marquis Wellesley abolished slavery throughout India ;
and your Lordship, by your order of June 4th, to emanci

pate all the government slaves at Malacca, and to direct

that hereafter no slaves shall be purchased or received on
account of government, has already given all the Malay
nations an earnest of your Lordship's sentiments on the

subject. It is certainly to the credit of our countrymen

in the East, that they have, at the most early periods,

opposed all attempts to introduce the abominable slave

traffic into our settlements in the East; and in proof
of this, it is only necessary to refer to an act of the

Governor in council of Madras on so early a date as

1682, prohibiting this nefarious traffic at that presidency.

   " The sources of slavery in the Malay countries are
chiefly the following: --piracy, captivity in war, man-steal

                                            SLAVERY.

ing, and the penalties enacted in the Malay law respect
ing debts and sundry misdemeanors. Piracy is often a
distinct source of slavery, the surviving crews of vessels
which fall into their hands being generally disposed of
by sale at the first market, as in the instance of the ship
Commerce, the crew of which, consisting of Bengal Lascars,
are reported to have been publicly sold for slaves at

Borneo Proper and Sambas. In many instances they

have employed such crews as slaves, both on board their
own vessels and on their own settlements, in cultivating
the grounds, as at Ratch, on the east coast of Sumatra.
The numerous chieftains in the Malay countries, and the
constant wars which they carry on against each other, is
another great source of slavery; the captives taken in
such wars are generally employed in domestic occupations,
tending cattle, and cultivating the ground, when there is
no opportunity of bringing them to market, a circumstance
which seldom occurs, since such numbers are constantly
required by the Arabs and Chinese traders, as well as the
Dutch, that the market is seldom overstocked. Many of
the Arab trading-vessels are almost entirely navigated by
the slaves of the owners; and in their progress from
island to island, they find little difficulty in recruiting

their crew, by receiving presents of slaves; or, if that

should fail, by kidnapping or man-stealing. This forms
a strong argument against prohibiting the range of the

islands to either the Chinese or Arab traders ; for if this

were permitted, the abolition of the system of kidnapping

         SLAVERY.     97

would be absolutely impossible. The pagan tribes in

the vicinity of the Moslems, such as the Bali, and some

of the tribes of the Bugismen, the Harafuras, the Black

Papuas, or Oriental negroes, the original inhabitants of

Seram, Goram, and other easterly nations, are, in a great

measure, the victims of the man-stealing or kidnapping

system ; and, as they are only infidels, they are con
sidered as fair booty. Further inquiries, however, are

necessary, in order to ascertain the probable extent of the

kidnapping system. But another source of this evil is

the nature of the penalties established in the Undang

Undang, or system of Malay law, respecting debtors and

persons guilty of various misdemeanors, by which these

Iare liable to become slaves. As hope to be able to lay

shortly before your Lordship a translation of the Malay

Ilaws relative to this interesting topic, shall not enlarge

upon it at present, especially as this brings me to the

subject of general reform of the system of Malay law. It

is, however, necessary to mention, that your Lordship's

attention will unavoidably be called to the subject of the

relief of slave debtors, and perhaps the mitigation of the

slave system in the Eastern Islands. On the subject of

slave debtors, there is reason to apprehend that the

greatest abuses exist, even in the district of Malacca

itself, especially among that unfortunate class of men who

have become bondmen to the Chinese, and who have very

little chance of ever recovering their liberty, however

small their debts may originally have been. As the most

VOL. I.            H

98 WANT OF A SYSTEM OF LAW.

minute local inquiries must be necessary before any effi
cient measures can bo taken for palliating or removing

Ithese evils, shall, in the present case, content myself

with requesting your Lordship's attention to this most
serious and important subject.

   " Nothing has tended more decidedly to the deteriora
tion of the Malay character than the want of a well-
defined and generally acknowledged system of law. The

Malay nations had in general made considerable progress
in civilization before the introduction of the religion of
Islam among them. They had, accordingly, regular
institutions of their own, some of which were probably of
considerable antiquity, as those of the Javanese, Bugis,
and Macasar tribes. As these appear to have been gene
rally derived from the Indian nations, and were radically
different from those of the Arabs, some difficulty appears
to have occurred in adapting them to the general tenor of
Mahomedan law, and divers anomalous institutions ap
pear accordingly to have sprung up in different states.
These occur in every department of public law, whether
commercial, civil, or criminal, and are recited in the
Undang Undang and Addat Malayu, which are the
systems of national law among the Malays, and which
vary considerably in different states, and still more from
the generally acknowledged principles of Mahomedan
law, as received by the Arabs. Hence there is in almost
every state a constant struggle between the adherents of
the old Malay usages and the Hajis, and other religious

WANT OF A SYSTEM OF LAW.  99

persons, who are desirous of introducing the laws of the
Arabs, in order to increase their own consequence. The

evils which result from this complex and ill-defined system
are both numerous and important, as they respect the
most essential interests of society, and afford an opening
for the caprice and tyranny of their rulers, and general
insecurity both of person and property. The Malays are
at present in a very different situation from any of the
old Moslem states, such as Persia, Arabia, or Turkey.
The Moslem religion has hitherto taken only a very par
tial and superficial root in many of the Eastern Islands.

In the interior of all the large islands paganism still pre
vails ; in many districts there are considerable numbers
professing Christianity : the Chinese swarm in every
Malay country, and live intermingled with the Moslems.
This mixture of religions and tribes has tended, in some
degree, to soften the intolerance of the Moslem religion
among the Malay nations, and neither the positive autho
rity of Islam, nor the persuasions of their Arab teachers,

have hitherto been able to induce them to abandon their

own peculiar usages and customs. Considering the
Malays, therefore, as more open to instruction than the

Ivotaries of Islam in general, beg leave to submit to your

Lordship's consideration, whether the present opportunity
might not be taken advantage of to invite the Malay
chiefs to a revisal of their general system of laws and

Iusages. This conceive might be done, even on a great

scale, without exciting any umbrage or suspicion in the

100  WANT OF A SYSTEM OF LAW.

minds of the people in general ; for with some of these
usages, especially those which relate to wrecks on the
Malay shores, and the commercial regulations of the dif
ferent ports, it will be absolutely necessary for us to inter
fere at all events. These commercial regulations form a
part of the general Malay laws, and as we must in some

 degree interfere with these, the same opportunity may
perhaps be taken to procure the abandonment of some
 of those maxims and usages which have the strongest
 tendency to prevent their progress in information and the
 habits of civilized life. When the seven Ionian islands

 were lately ceded to France, the president of the senate

 offered a prize for the best dissertation on the following

 question :--' Why do the Ionian islanders occupy them

  selves only with frivolous and unimportant objects, and by
 what means may their attention be drawn to things of
  consequence ?' Such are the questions regarding the

  Malay islands, which now invite your Lordship's atten
  tion ; and in answer to them the reform of the Malay laws

  may certainly be specified as one of the most important,
  and as one of the means by which the benefit of the Malay
  nations will be secured from their connexion with the
  English. With respect to the mode in which this may

  Ibe with greatest facility accomplished, shall only venture

   to suggest, that every Malay chief might be requested to
   furnish a copy of the Undang Undang current in his own

   state, and to send at some fixed time one or two of the
    learned men of the country, best versed in the laws, to a

                               "

MONOPOLY BY THE MALAY CHIEFS.     101

congress which might be appointed for the purpose of
revising the general system of Malay laws. Such a plan

might be attended, perhaps, in the first instance, with

Icertain difficulties ; but none, as far as can judge, which
are by any means insurmountable. It would be proper

to begin with settling the regulations of a commercial

kind ; and as these, though copied in many respects from
the regulations of the Portuguese and Dutch, are con
sidered as a part of the Malay law, it might be both use
ful and popular among the Malays to call in the assist

ance of their learned men.
   " Another of the customs injurious to the Malay nations,

is the trading monopoly which in most of the Malay ports

is actually assumed, or attempted to be assumed, by the

Malay chiefs. Of this monopoly there is no trace in the
Undang Undang of the Malays, or in the fragments of

Itheir history which have seen, such as the traditional
Iannals of Malacca ; and after an attentive consideration,

am induced to think that this pernicious practice has
been entirely copied from the monopoly regulations of the
Dutch. Where this system has been fully carried into
effect, it has generally succeeded effectually in repressing
industry and commercial enterprise ; and where it has
been for some time established, its evils have been felt

deeply, so that there is no doubt but the Malay chiefs
could easily be induced to relinquish it in favour of a
regulated commerce. The Malay laws and maxims are
fortunately of a very different kind from those which have

102 PROPAGATION OF CHRISTIANITY.

been adopted and systematized among the great nations
of the Continent in their vicinity. These nations, espe
cially the Siamese and Cochin Chinese, have long been
accustomed to look up to the Chinese, with whom they
coincide in religion and manners, and from whom they
have adopted their exclusive maxims of foreign inter
course. The Malays, on the other hand, though accus
tomed to look up to the Arabs as their religious in
structors, seldom hesitate to admit the superiority of both
the Europeans and Chinese, either to themselves or the
Arabs, in the arts of life and general science, and it is
certainly our interest to prevent the increase of the Arab
influence among the Malay nations.

    " From similar considerations, as well as in conformity
to the instructions issued from home, the Dutch nation
appear to have pursued as a principle of policy the
propagation of Christianity among the Eastern Islands.
The same plan had been previously followed by the
Portuguese in their various eastern possessions with great
success ; and there are now several small islands in the
Malay archipelago inhabited almost entirely by Chris
tians of the Catholic persuasion, as the islands of Sanggir
and Siauk, situated between Jelolo and Mindanawi. In
many other islands the Protestant persuasion has made
very considerable progress, and teachers in the flourishing
times of the Batavian regency were dispersed over all the
low chain of islands which extend from Bali and Lambok
to the great island of Timor. The islands in which the

PROPAGATION OF CHRISTIANITY.  103

Christian faith has been most extensively diffused are, the
great island Ende, or Manggerai, the isles of Solor, Sale-
rang, Lomblim, and Ombai, the great island Timor, and
the several small islands in its vicinity, as Savo, Roti, and

Samba. In many of these islands the natives, having no

written character of their own, have been instructed in

the Roman character, and taught to read Malay and
other dialects in it. There have also been various reli

gious formularies printed for their use, and translations
have been executed for the use of these Christians in
some of their languages, which have little or no affinity to
the Malay. The propagation of Christianity among these
islands is obviously liable to none of the objections which

have been urged against it in our Indian possessions. A

great proportion of the natives are still Pagans, under
the influence of a wild and almost unintelligible supersti
tion, the principles of which are not recorded in books,
but are handed down like stories of ghosts, fairies, and
witches, with all the uncertainty of tradition. Accord
ingly, in most instances, the people, though they stand in
great awe of the priests, as enchanters, or dealers with
the invisible spirits, are very little attached to the super
stition. Many of them are said to be very desirous of
procuring instruction, and in some places they look up
with a degree of veneration to the Moslems, as a people
who have received something which they still want.
Besides, the attachment of the Malays to the religion of
Islam is by no means of that strength as to emancipate

104  ADVANTAGES OF POSSESSING JAVA.

them from their old usages, nor to inspire them with that
contempt and hatred for other religions which is found in
many of the older Moslem kingdoms. On the advantages
which must accrue from protecting Christianity in these
Eastern Islands, and by favouring its propagation in pre
ference to the doctrines of Islam, where it may be so
easily propagated, it is unnecessary to enlarge, in address
ing your Lordship. Permit me, however, to allude to one
remarkable fact, which may serve to illustrate the neces
sity of attending to the subject as a matter of public im

portance. In our present settlement of Malacca, the im

possibility of procuring servants for wages compels almost

every person to have recourse to slaves, and a consider
able proportion of these are Pagans, being chiefly Battas
from the centre of Sumatra, Balis from Bali, Dayaks from
Borneo, besides natives of Timor and the more easterly

islands. Of all these slaves that fall into the hands of the

English, there is perhaps not a single one that becomes a
Christian, but the whole of them become Moslems, and

despise and hate their masters as infidels. Such is the
woeful effect of our supineness and indifference, which,

if they should extend to the East, would certainly not

tend to the progress of general improvement among the

Malays.

  I" In these observations have in some degree avoided

alluding to the advantages which may be expected to
accrue to the British nation itself, and also to the British
possessions in India, from the acquisition of Java and the

ADVANTAGES OF POSSESSING JAVA.         105

IEastern isles, because am persuaded that the real ad

vantages which these countries possess will be found,
under a liberal and enlightened system of management,

vastly to exceed any expectations which may be formed in

the present state of our information concerning them. In

their present state, with the exception of Java, these

countries are poor in respect of general wealth, and can

only pay in rude produce for the articles which they

require from other countries. The rude produce, how

ever, of the Malay countries is of various kinds, some of

which are extremely valuable, and equally calculated for

the European, the Indian, and the China market. The

intercourse between countries rich in manufacturing in

dustry and countries rich in raw produce, is universally

admitted to be of equal benefit to both. In respect of

the Malay islands, India must long be regarded as a

manufacturing country, and is particularly fitted to sup

ply a variety of articles in general request among the

Malays, without interfering with the industry of the

mother country. The trade from India to the Malay
countries has hitherto chiefly consisted in opium and

piece-goods, for which India has chiefly received back

Igold-dust, spices, gums, and coffee.  omit the mention

of copper, as it is not a native Malay production, but

chiefly derived from Japan. The circumstance, however,

under which the Indian trade to the eastward has been

hitherto carried on, and the insecurity and want of pro

tection under which it has always laboured, renders the

106  ADVANTAGES OF POSSESSING JAVA.

Ipast no criterion of the future, and have no doubt it

may be improved to an almost indefinite extent, as the

Malay countries advance in civilization. The Java sugar

is at present reckoned nearly on a par with the fine sugar
of Manilla, and the Java coffee next to the coffee of
Mocha and Bourbon. Either of these productions are
capable of being greatly extended. The Dutch, in their
usual way, restricted the cultivation of coffee to about ten
millions of pounds, though it has been stated that th e
island of Java is capable of producing at least fifty mil
lions of pounds. The extended cultivation of these
articles must, however, be matter for future consideration.

Coffee, at present, is chiefly produced in the provinces of

Cheribon.

   " With regard to the Chinese market, the Malay coun
tries furnish a variety of articles of the most general use

and constant demand, and which do not affect either the
products or manufactures of either Great Britain or

British India. Tin is one of these products, which, finds
a constant and almost indefinite demand in China, and

which is solely produced in the Malay countries and some
of the dependencies of Siam. Pepper, which, after the
acquisition of the Dutch eastern settlements, we shall
have the command of, almost as much as of nutmegs,
cloves, mace, and cinnamon, is in considerable demand
for the Chinese market, as well as for Arabia and Persia.
The quantity of pepper yearly required for the Chinese
market has been estimated at 50,000 piculs, that of

ADVANTAGES OF POSSESSING JAVA.  107

sandal-wood about 6000 piculs, besides camphor and
benjamin, and a variety of valuable gums, the production
of which is nearly confined to the Malay countries. The
quantity of pearls, mother-of-pearl, tortoise-shell, ivory,
birds'-nests, sea-slug, fish-maws, shark-fins, ebony, black
and coloured woods, for furniture and dye-stuffs, yearly
imported to the Chinese market from the Malay islands
is admitted to be extremely great ; but the trade having
never been well regulated, it might be difficult, in the
present state of our knowledge, to attempt subjecting it
to calculations.

   " In the present unparalleled state of the European
market on the Continent, it is hazardous to venture to

allude to it. It may, however, be stated generally, that

the acquisition of the Dutch possessions in the East
places the command of the spice trade, together with that
of pepper and coffee, besides a variety of other eastern
produce, entirely in our hands, and that the Continent
must either do without these articles, or submit to pur

chase them from the English.
    " The valuable forests of teak and other ship timber in

Java and the other Eastern isles, are acquisitions of the
highest national importance in the present state of Euro

 pean politics, and promise to render our navy independent
 of the stores formerly derived from the precarious friend
 ship of the northern powers. Nor is the acquisition of a

 range of countries, apparently possessing the most valu

108  CONCLUSION OF MR. RAFFLES- REPORT.

able gold and diamond mines in the world, an object
unworthy of our notice in our present situation, in which
the drain of our specie has been great in an unprece
dented degree, and when for the restoration of the pre

cious metals among us, as a circulating medium, we

are likely to be left in a great measure to our own

resources.

   " To dilate any further on these topics is unnecessary,
as on your Lordship's approach to Java, every day will
bring forward information to which it is not now in my

Ipower to allude. The suggestions which have already

offered may perhaps have already appeared to your Lord

ship unnecessarily prolix ; but in putting you in posses

Ision of all the information which have been able to
Iobtain, and of all the views of the subject which con
Isider as meriting attention, have only endeavoured to

reply to that confidence which your Lordship reposed in
me, in appointing me your Lordship's agent to the Malay

states.

  I" have now only to congratulate your Lordship on the

most splendid prospect which any administration has be
held since our first acquisition of India : the pacification
of India completed, the tranquillity and prosperity of our
eastern possessions secured, the total expulsion of the

European enemy from the Eastern Seas, and the justice,
humanity, and moderation of the British government, as

much exemplified in fostering and leading on new races

CONCLUSION OF MR. RAFFLES' REPORT.            109

of subjects and allies in the career of improvement, as the

undaunted courage and resolution of British soldiers in

rescuing them from oppression.

  I" have the honour to remain, with the highest respect

and consideration,

                    " Your Lordship's

" Most faithful and devoted humble servant,

(Signed)            " Thos. Raffles,

                    " Agent to the Governor- General

                    " with the Malay States.

" Malacca, the 10th June, 1811."

                 CHAPTER IV.

Lord Minto's great anxiety as to the passage from Malacca to Ba-
  tavia -- Naval men opposed to Mr. Raffles -- Lord Minto confides in
  Mr. Raffles-- New passage attempted -- Arrival off Batavia--Mr.
  Raffles gives a sketch of the events which led to his being em
  ployed in the expedition-- Establishment of the French power in
  Java-- Sir Samuel Achmuty's account of the capture of Batavia,
   and of the battle of Cornelis -- Capitulation of the Island-- Inter
  cepted letters from Governor Jansens -- Lord Minto's opinion of
   the value of the conquest1- Death of Dr. Leyden--Lord Minto
  places Mr. Raffles in the government of Java -- Leading principles
   of the Dutch government-- 'Projected change of system --English
   Residents appointed at the native courts --Ancient temples --First
   Colony of Hindus -- Upas poison-- Journey to the Eastern district.

Lord Minto, in his letter of the 11th of March, 1811,
manifested great anxiety regarding the route to be pur
sued by the expedition on quitting Malacca : Mr. Raffles
deeply participated in this feeling.

   The difficulty was great of making a passage with a
large fleet through an Archipelago, where the wind blows
strongly from one point of the compass for several
months ; where the passage between the islands is often so
narrow, that only one ship can pass at a time, and then so
close to the land, that the sides of the vessel are shadowed

ARRIVAL OFF JAVA.  Ill

by the luxuriant vegetation extending to the water's

edge.

   Upon this subject it was found impossible to obtain any
positive information -- every account was obscure and con
tradictory. Mr. Raffles did not hesitate to stake his
reputation on the success which would attend the expe

dition, if the route he pointed out should be followed.

The naval authorities were opposed, but Lord Minto
proved his confidence in the judgment and local informa
tion of Mr. Raffles, by embarking with him in his Ma
jesty's ship the Modeste, commanded by Captain the
Honourable George Elliott, on the 18th of June, 1811,
and leading the way by the route marked out on Mr.
Raffles's sole responsibility.

   This route was followed with so much success, that in

less than six weeks after quitting Malacca, the fleet, con
sisting of upwards of ninety sail, was in sight of Batavia,
without accident to a single vessel. Mr. Raffles often
spoke in after times with animated expressions of the
pleasure he felt on witnessing this happy termination
of the voyage.

   Lord Minto, after announcing that he had arrived
off the coast of Java, and that the passage was com
pleted during the height of the south-east monsoon, by
a fleet of upwards of ninety ships, adds, --

   " The expectations which had been formed were veri
fied in every part of the passage, and every thing turned
out precisely as had been foretold and proposed, with the

112 LETTER FROM MR. RAFFLES.

exception of finding less difficulty than had been looked

for, and the voyage proving shorter than could have been

hoped. The whole fleet had assembled on the coast of
Java by the 30th of July, forty-two days, or exactly six
weeks : the Modeste, if alone, would have done it a

fortnight sooner.

  I" have been the more particular in detailing these

circumstances, because this expedition must have been

abandoned for the present year, (an earlier departure than
actually took place from India having been found totally

impracticable,) if I had yielded to the predicted difficul

ties of the passage."
   The following letter to an intimate associate of Mr.

Raffles' early years was written when the fleet reached the
coast of Java, and shows his buoyancy of spirit even in

seasons of the greatest anxiety :--
   "You are, either from inclination or habit, so bad a

correspondent, that I barely get an acknowledgment of

my letters, much less an assurance that they are well re

ceived. However, coute quil coute ; be it as it may, I'll

speak to thee, call thee friend, dear Ramsay, be thy in
tent wicked or charitable.

  I" You always said was a strange wild fellow, insatiable

in ambition, though meek as a maiden ; and perhaps there
is more truth than otherwise in what you said ; but with

all, I will assure you this, that although, from want of

Iself-confidence and from natural shamefacedness, (for

Iwill not call it modesty or bashfulness,) am as unhappy

         LETTER FROM MR. RAFFLES.     113

Iat times as any poor wretch need be, have times in
IIwhich am as happy as think it possible for man to be ;

and it is one of these life-inspiring moments that I now

purpose passing with you a la distance ; and notwith

standing my inclination of hearing, rather than being

Iheard, must for once venture to be the historian of my

own tale.

  I" You shall have an account since quitted Penang

in June, 1810, and that in as few words as possible.
   " My friend, Admiral Drury, our late Commander-

in-chief, informed me by letter in June, last year, that
he had exerted all his interest with Lord Minto, the

Governor- General, to obtain for me the situation of

Governor of the Moluccas ; that his Lordship was

most favourably disposed towards me; and that, as far

as it rested with Sir George Barlow, or the Governor-

IGeneral, might be satisfied they wished to avail them

selves of my services.
   " The expedition against the Isle of France was about

to sail. On its success depended a still greater expe
dition -- the attack of Java. To the latter, therefore,

I attached myself; was admitted to the fullest and most

unreserved confidence of the Supreme Government, and

in due time proceeded on a political mission to the

Eastern Isles, as the avant courier of the expedition.

I fixed my head-quarters at Malacca, made the political

impressions and intimations that were necessary, and

furnished the requisite information. The expedition,

VOL. i.                            i

114  LETTER FROM MR. RAFFLES.

consisting of about ninety sail, arrived at Malacca the
end of May ; and on the 18th of June, having seen the

whole off, and having been previously joined by the

IGovernor-General,  embarked with his Lordship in the

Modeste frigate, acting in the capacity of his chief secre
tary. We are now off the coast of Java, having come

a-head of the fleet ; but we expect them to-morrow, and

the attack will be made in the course of the week.
   " Of the importance of this conquest, the views that

naturally present themselves on such an occasion, and the

Ishare have had in bringing the important point so near
Ia conclusion, need not speak ; you have the opportunity

of seeing the government proceedings, which will be suf

ficiently satisfactory.

  I" beg that you will write to me to Batavia by any

vessel coming direct, or by way of India or China--if you

Ireally knew the pleasing satisfaction derive from having
Ieven three words from you, think you would not decline ;

Iat the same time, must say, that you are the most famous

Ihand for a short letter that ever knew, and in truth this

is hardly reasonable, for in comparison you cannot have

Imuch to do -- have, on the contrary, my hands full at all

times, witness the papers sent in by me on record, and

Ireflect on the numerous papers and affairs that get

through which never reach England.

  I" wish very much to hear what is said of my political

ideas respecting the government of the eastward. Adieu,

my dear Ramsay, for the present : my paper is out, and

MR. RAFFLES' APPOINTMENT.                                  115

Idinner is announced, so farewell-- will write you more

fully after we are settled.  Conquer we must.
                                  " Your's always,

                                              " T. S. R."

   Still further light may be thrown upon the views

and motives by which Mr. Raffles was influenced in these

important proceedings, and the feelings of satisfaction
which, at the interesting moment of his arrival off Batavia,

so powerfully possessed his mind, by the following letter
from him to Dr. Raffles, though written after a lapse of

several years.

   " Some months had now elapsed, and it was to be
feared that arrangements for the administration of the
Moluccas were already in progress. Yet the chance
of being in time, and the expectation of still further
advancing my interests with Lord Minto, weighed with

Ime in the resolution took, of proceeding in person to

Bengal. My attention had long been directed to the
state of the Dutch possessions to the eastward, and as
rumours were afloat of a projected armament going against
the Isle of France, it occurred to me that the information

I possessed respecting Java might be useful, and possibly

turn the attention of our Government in that direction.

I accordingly left my family and proceeded to Calcutta in

a small and frail vessel, the only one which offered, but in

which all my future prospects had well nigh perished. On

Imy arrival in Bengal met with the kindest reception

                                                                                  i2

116 PROJECTED EXPEDITION AGAINST JAVA.

from Lord Minto. I found that though the appointment

to the Moluccas had not actually taken place, it was pro

Imised to another.  in consequence relinquished all idea

of it, and at once drew his Lordship's attention to Java,

by observing that there were other islands worthy of his
Lordship's consideration besides the Moluccas ; Java, for

instance. On the mention of Java his Lordship cast

a look of such scrutiny, anticipation, and kindness upon

me, as I shall never forget --' Yes,' said he, ' Java is an
interesting island -- I shall be happy to receive any infor

mation you can give me concerning it.' This was enough

to encourage me ; and from this moment all my views, all

my plans, and all my mind were devoted to create such an

interest regarding Java as should lead to its annexation to

I Iour Eastern empire, although confess that had never

the vanity to expect that, when this object was accom

plished, so important an administration would have been

Iintrusted to my individual charge, that should have

been intrusted with what Mr. Marsden emphatically
observes was ' as great a charge as a nation could in

trust to an individual.'

  "It is unnecessary to enter on the detail which fol

lowed--the fall of Bourbon, and the anticipation of suc

cess at the Isle of France, encouraged a plan for the

conquest of Java. As it in a great measure originated

with me, and as it was almost entirely on my information

Ithat the decision was taken, naturally took a conspicuous

part, although little or nothing met the public eye. Per

PROJECTED EXPEDITION AGAINST JAVA.  117

haps no secret was ever better kept than the projected
scheme against Java, for until it was publicly announced,

and the intention of the Governor-General to proceed in

person was made known, not a word was surmised or

whispered on the subject.

   " As an avant courier, and to prepare the way for

Ithe expedition, was appointed Agent to the Governor-

General with the Malay states, and took up my head

Iquarters at Malacca, where the rendezvous was fixed.

remained here as representative of the Governor-General

until his Lordship arrived, when, instead of the desig

Ination of Agent, was styled Secretary to the Governor-

IGeneral ; in this capacity  accompanied his Lordship

Ito Java. Various doubts, difficulties, and, might say,

insurmountable obstacles, had been started to prove the
impossibility of the expedition proceeding to Java during

the present season. The opinion of the naval Com

mander-in-chief, and indeed of all constituted authorities,
was decidedly against it--it was in fact pronounced im

practicable. Lord Minto alone stood firm, and placed his

Ientire and unreserved reliance in the opinion which had

Igiven him on the subject.   had ascertained the practi

cability by an experiment in a small vessel, ' the Minto,'

commanded by Captain Greigh, a most intelligent and

zealous officer, who had been placed under my orders, and

Ito whom am indebted for the discovery of the passage

by the coast of Borneo. At the period that the expe

dition sailed from Malacca, it was uncertain by whieh

118 ARRIVAL OFF JAVA.

route it would proceed. I really believe no fixed route

was determined on, and Lord Minto had too much

judgment and precaution to interfere. He placed the

information he possessed within the reach of the senior
naval officer, and fortunately it was acted upon. On

the 4th of August, 1811, the whole of the fleet, con
sisting of upwards of ninety vessels, arrived off the
coast of Java, without the loss of a single spar, or

slightest accident, having passed by a route previously

almost unknown, and accomplished a passage declared

Ito be impracticable.  will not attempt to say what

my feelings were on the occasion. We had separated
from the fleet for a few days, and it was only when

we again joined them that we saw all the divisions

Iunited, at the close of one of the finest days ever

recollect, and this in sight of the land of promise. Lord
Minto, while at Malacca, had communicated his inten

tion of appointing me to the government, in case of suc

Icess, and as had nothing to do with the military ope

Irations,  now looked upon my part as completed ;

perhaps so great a responsibility was never for so long

on the head of a single individual, and the relief which

I felt was proportionate."

Before the expedition sailed from Malacca, it was ascer

tained that Marshal Daendels had been succeeded in the

government and command of Java by General Jansens,

who was making all preparations within his power to meet

the expected invasion by the English.

            CAPTURE OF BATAV1A.                 119

   The following letter from Sir Samuel Achmuty to Lord
Minto contains an account of the capture of Batavia.

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE LORD MINTO, GOVERNOR-
                          GENERAL, &C. &C. &C.

            Head Quarters, Weltevreeden, August 31, 1811.

" My Lord,

" After a short but arduous campaign, the troops

you did me the honour to place under my orders have
taken the capital of Java, have assaulted and carried the

enemy's formidable works at Cornelis, have defeated and

dispersed their collected force, and have driven them from

the kingdoms of Bantam and Jacotra. This brilliant suc

cess over a well-appointed and disciplined force, greatly

superior in numbers and in every respect well equipped,
is the result of the great zeal, gallantry, and discipline of

the troops, qualities they have possessed in a degree cer

tainly never surpassed. It is my duty to lay before your

Lordship the details of their success, but it is not in my

power to do them the justice they deserve, or to express

how much their country is indebted to them for their

great exertions.

   " Your Lordship is acquainted with the reasons that

induced me to attempt a landing in the neighbourhood of

Batavia. It was effected without opposition, at the village

of Shillinching, twelve miles east of tthe city, on the 4th
instant. My intention was to proceed from thence, by
the direct road to Cornelis, where the enemy's force was

120 CAPTURE OF BATAVIA.

said to be assembled in a strongly fortified position, and

to place the city of Batavia in my rear, from whence alone

I could expect to derive supplies, equal to the arduous

contest we were engaged in.

" As some time was required to make preparations

Ifor an inland movement,     judged it proper to recon

noitre the road by the coast leading to Batavia, and ob

serve how far it would be practicable to penetrate by that

Iroute.  was aware that it was extremely strong, and if

well defended nearly impracticable. Advancing with

Ipart of the army, had the satisfaction to find that it was

not disputed with us, and the only obstacle to our progress

was occasioned by the destruction of the bridge over the

IAujal river.  approached the river on the 6th, and ob
Iserving, during that evening, a large fire in Batavia,

concluded it was the intention of the enemy to evacuate

Ithe city, and with this impression directed the advance

of the army, under Colonel Gillespie, to pass the river in

boats on the succeeding night. They lodged themselves

in the suburbs of the city, and a temporary bridge was

hastily constructed on the morning of the 8th, capable of
supporting light artillery. On that day the Burghers of

Batavia applied for protection, and surrendered the city

without opposition, the garrison having retreated to

Weltevreeden.

   " The possession of Batavia was of the utmost import

ance. Though large store-houses of public property were

burnt by the enemy previous to their retreat, and every

              CAPTURE OF BATAVIA.                 121

effort made to destroy the remainder, we were fortunate

in preserving some valuable granaries and other stores.

The city, although abandoned by the principal inhabit

ants, was filled with an industrious race of people, who

could be particularly useful to the army. Provisions were

in abundance, and an easy communication preserved with

the fleet.

   " In the night of the 8th, a feeble attempt was made

Iby the enemy to cut off a small guard had sent for the

security of the place, but the troops of the advance had,

unknown to them, reinforced the party early in the even

ing, and the attack was repulsed. The advance, under

Colonel Gillespie, occupied the city on the 9th.

I" Very early on the morning of the 10th,         directed

Colonel Gillespie with his troops to move from Batavia

towards the enemy's cantonment at Weltevreeden, sup

ported by two brigades of infantry that marched before

break of day through the city, and followed his route.

The cantonment was abandoned, but the enemy were in

force a little beyond and about two miles in advance of
              it
their works at Cornelis. Their position was strong, andit,

                                  it
defended by an abbatis, occupied by 3000 of their best

troops, and four guns of horse-artillery. Colonel Gilles

pie attacked  with spirit and judgment, and after an

obstinate resistance, carried at the point of the bayonet,

completely routed their force, and took their guns. A

strong column from these troops advanced to their sup

port, but our line being arrived, they were instantly pur

                                 BATTLE OK CORNELLS.

sued, and driven under shelter of their batteries. In this

affair, so creditable to Colonel Gillespie, and all the troops
of the advance, the grenadier company of the 78th, and
the detachment of the 89th regiment, particularly dis
tinguished themselves, by charging and capturing the
enemy's artillery. Our loss was trifling compared with
the enemy's, which may be estimated at about 500 men,
with Brigadier-General Alberti dangerously wounded.

    " Though we had hitherto been successful beyond my
most sanguine expectations, our farther progress became
extremely difficult, and somewhat doubtful. The enemy,
greatly superior in numbers, was strongly entrenched in a
position between the great river of Jacotra, and the
Sloken, an artificial water-course, neither of which was
fordable. This position was shut up by a deep trench,
 strongly palisadoed. Seven redoubts, and many batteries,
 mounted with heavy cannon, occupied the most command
 ing grounds within the lines. The fort of Cornells was in
 the centre, and the whole of the works were defended by
 a numerous and well-organized artillery. The season
 was too far advanced, the heat too violent, and our number
 insufficient to admit of regular approaches. To carry the

Iworks by assault was the alternative, and on that decided.
 IIn aid of this measure, directed some batteries to disable

 the principal redoubts, and for two days kept up a heavy
 fire from twenty eighteens, and eight mortars and howit

 Izers. Their execution was great, and had the pleasure

 to find, that though answered at the commencement of

BATTLE OF CORNELIS.  123

each day, by a far more numerous artillery, we daily
silenced their nearest batteries, considerably disturbed
every part of their position, and were evidently superior
in our fire.

   " At dawn of day on the 26th, the assault was made,

the principal attack was intrusted to that gallant and ex

perienced officer, Colonel Gillespie ; he had the infantry
of the advance, and the grenadiers of the line with him,
and was supported by Colonel Gibbs, with the 59th regi
ment, and the 4th battalion of Bengal volunteers. They

were intended to surprise, if possible, the redoubt con

structed by the enemy beyond the Sloken, to endeavour
to cross the bridge over that stream with the fugitives,
and then to assault the redoubts within the lines ; Colonel

Gillespie attacking those to the left, and Colonel Gibbs
to the right. Lieutenant- Colonel M'Cleod, with six com
panies of the 59th, was directed to follow a path on the
bank of the great river, and when the attack had com
menced on the Sloken, to endeavour to possess himself of
the enemy's left redoubt. Major Yule, with the flank
troops of the reserve, reinforced by two troops of cavalry,
four guns of the horse-artillery, two companies of the
59th, and the grenadiers of the reserve, was directed to

attack the troops at Campong Malayu, on the west of the
great river, and endeavour to cross the bridge at that
fort. The remainder of the army, under Major-General
Wetherall, was at the batteries, where a column under
Colonel Wood, consisting of the 78th regiment, and the

124 BATTLE OF CORNELIS.

5th volunteer battalion, was directed to advance against
the enemy in front, and at a favourable moment, when

aided by the other attacks, to force his way, if practicable,

and open the position for the line.

   " The enemy was under arms, and prepared for the

combat, and General Jansens, the Commander-in-Chief,
was in the redoubt where it commenced. Colonel Gilles

pie, after a long action through a close and intricate
country, came on their advance, routed it in an instant,
and, with a rapidity never surpassed and under a heavy
fire of grape and musketry, possessed himself of the ad
vanced redoubt. He passed the bridge with the fugitives,
under a tremendous fire, and assaulted and carried with

the bayonet the redoubt, after a most obstinate resistance.
Here the two divisions of this column separated. Colonel

Gibbs turned to the right, and with the 59th, and part of

the 78th, who had now forced their way in front, carried

the redoubt. A tremendous explosion of the magazine of

this work (whether accidental or designed is not ascer
tained) took place at the instant of its capture, and de
stroyed a number of gallant officers and men, who at the
moment were crowded on its ramparts, which the enemy
had abandoned. The redoubt, against which Lieutenant-
Colonel M'Cleod's attack was directed, was carried in as

Igallant a style ; and lament to state, that most valiant

and experienced officer fell at the moment of victory.
The front of the position was now open, and the troops
rushed in from every quarter.

BATTLE OF CORNELIS.  125

   " During the operations on the right, Colonel Gillespie

pursued his advantage to the left, carrying the enemy's
redoubts towards the rear, as well as a park of artillery,
in a most masterly manner, and putting to flight a body
of the enemy's cavalry, that formed and attempted to

defend it. A sharp fire of musketry was now kept up,

by a strong body of the enemy, who had taken post in the
lines, in front of Fort Cornelis, but were soon driven from

thence, the fort taken, and the enemy completely dis

persed. They were pursued by Colonel Gillespie with
the 14th regiment, a party of Sepoys, and the seamen
from the batteries under Captain Sayer, of the Royal

Navy ; by this time the cavalry and horse-artillery had
effected a passage through the lines, the former com
manded by Major Travers, and the latter by Captain
Noble ; and, with the gallant Colonel at their head, the
pursuit was continued till the whole of the enemy's army
was killed, taken, or dispersed.

    " Major Yule's attack was equally spirited ; but after
routing the enemy's force at Campong Malayu, and kill
ing many of them, he found the bridge on fire, and was
unable to penetrate farther.

  I" have the honour to enclose a return of the loss sus

tained, from our landing on the 4th to the 26th inclusive.

ISincerely lament its extent, and the many valuable and

able officers that have unfortunately fallen ; but when the

 prepared state of the enemy, their numbers, and the

120 BATTLE OF CORNELIS.

Istrength of their positions are considered,  trust it will

not be deemed heavier than might be expected. Theirs

has greatly exceeded it : in the action of the 26th, the

numbers killed were immense, but it has been impossible

to form any accurate statements of the amount. About

1000 have been buried in the works ; multitudes were cut

down in the retreat ; the rivers are choked up with the

dead, and the huts and woods were filled with wounded,

who have since expired. We have taken near 5000

prisoners, among whom are three general officers, 34 field-

officers, 90 captains, and 150 subaltern officers. General

Jansens made his escape with difficulty during the action,

and reached Buitenzorg, a distance of thirty miles, with a

few cavalry, the sole remains of an army of 10,000 men.
This place he has since evacuated, and fled to the east

ward. A detachment of our troops is in possession

of it.
   " The superior discipline and invincible courage which

has so highly distinguished the British army were never

Imore fully displayed ; and have the heartfelt pleasure to

add, that they have not been clouded by any acts of in

subordination.

  I I" have the honour to enclose a copy of the orders

have directed to be issued, thanking the troops in general

for their services, and particularizing some of the officers,

who from their rank or situations were more fortunate

than their equally gallant companions, in opportunities for

BATTLE OF CORNELIS.                                                            127

distinguishing themselves, and serving their sovereign

and their country.

  I" But must not omit noticing to your Lordship the

very particular merit of Colonel Gillespie, to whose assist

ance in planning the principal attack, and to whose gal
lantry, energy, and judgment in executing the success

   greatly to be attributed. To the general staff of the
I is
                                                         ;
                            II
                                                                          it,
army, as well as my own staff, feel myself particularly
indebted. The professional knowledge, zeal, and activity
of Colonel Eden, Quarter-Master-General, have been

essentially useful to me but cannot express how much

   have benefited by the able assistance and laborious
exertions of Colonel Agnew, the Adjutant- General, an

officer whose active and meritorious services have fre

quently attracted the notice, and received the thanks of

the Government of India.         assure your Lordship

  " It with particular pleasure
I
      is
                             I
that have received the most cordial support from the
Honourable Rear-Admiral Stopford, and Commodore

Broughton, during the period of their commanding the
squadron. The former was pleased to allow a body of

500 seamen, under that valuable officer, Captain Sayer, of
the Leda, to assist at our batteries. Their services were

particularly useful and have the satisfaction to assure
;

     I

you that both the Artillery and Engineers were actuated
by the same zeal in performing their respective duties

that has been so conspicuous in all ranks and depart
ments, though, from the deficiency of the means at their

128 INTERCEPTED LETTER FROM GENERAL JANSENS.

disposal, their operations were unavoidably embarrassed

with uncommon difficulties.

I" have the honour to be, with the greatest respect,

" Your Lordship's

" Most obedient humble servant,

(Signed)                     " S. Achmuty,

                             " Lieutenant-General.''

   The troops were landed on the 4th of August, 1811 ;
the battle of Cornelis was fought on the 26th; Lord
Minto published his Proclamation on the 11th of Sep
tember ; but the final capitulation of the island was not
signed till the 18th of September, 1811, by General Jan-
sens and Sir Samuel Achmuty, at Samarang, whither
General Jansens had retreated after his defeat at Cor

nelis.

   The following is a literal copy of a letter from General
Jansens to a Dutch gentleman employed in a public
capacity, which was intercepted, and is a curious specimen
of official correspondence :--

                                               " Samarang, le 2 Septembre, 1811.

   " Avec indignation, j'ai recu votre prec6dente lettre et
la derniere du 30 d'Aofit de Samarang.

   " Si la Tresorerie du gouvernement, si celle des veuves
et orphelines sera perdu, alors cela sera uniquement a
attribuer a votre lache, desobeissant, et infame comporte-

ment.

                     CAPTURE OF JAVA.            129

" Vous n'avez aucun ami, jamais on ne rencontra per

sonne, qui ne vous portât de haine ou ne vous méprisât,

par expérience j'ai su, mais, hélas ! trop tard, qu'on vous

a rendu justice, en voxis détestant.

   " Votre beau frère répond avec activité à ses devoirs, il

aura pour cela dans une âme calme, la récompense, mais

cela sera toujours un crevé coeur, d'avoir un indigne frère

comme vous.

   " Que vous ayez peur pour des soldats sans subordi

nation et pour des brigands, cela je ne prend pas de mal,

mais vous saviez qu'il y avoit un centaine d'officiers en

arrière de vous, et pour cela vous n'auriez pas dû aban
donner contre votre serment et devoir, votre poste, mais

rester dans le voisinage de ces officiers.
   " Mon devoir m'appelloit périr ici, pour rassembler tous

les ressources qui existent encore, vous auriez dû faire

autant, dans votre situation et les chefs* de l'intérieur

seroient certainement restés fidèles.
   " On se comptoit pour le plus grand malheur d'être

votre subordonné, il est aussi bien misérable de vous avoir

eu pour subalterne.

                     " Le Gouverneur-Général.

                                    " Signed,    W. Jansens."

"A Monsieur Vickens."

(Intercepted at Cheribon, Wth September, 1811.)

   Lord Minto announced the capture of Java to the

authorities in England, in the following terms :--
   " An empire, which for two centuries has contributed

VOL. I.              K

130 CONQUEST OF JAVA.

greatly to the power, prosperity, and grandeur of one of
the principal and most respected states in Europe, has
been thus wrested from the short usurpation of the French
government, added to the dominion of the British crown,
and converted from a seat of hostile machination and
commercial competition, into an augmentation of British
power and prosperity."

   The government of this empire was bestowed, with a
feeling and confidence honourable to the giver, and no less
gratifying to the person on whom such a high and noble
trust was reposed,

   Though partly pledged to another, Lord Minto de
clared he could not conscientiously withhold it from
him who had won it; and, therefore, " as an acknow
ledgment of the services he had rendered, and in
consideration of his peculiar fitness for the office," he
immediately appointed Mr. Raffles to it, under the
title of Lieutenant-Governor of Java and its Depen

dencies.

   The charge was of the most extensive, arduous, and
responsible nature, comprising, on the island of Java
alone, a population of six millions, divided into thirty
residencies, under powerful chiefs, who had been long
desirous of throwing off the European yoke, and who
were consequently by no means disposed to submit quietly
to the rule of their new governors.

   Before the conquest of Java by the English, the Dutch
had only subdued, unconditionally, one of the four prin

DEATH OF DR. LEYDEN.  131

cipal kingdoms into which the island was divided. The
small kingdom of Jakotra, extending from Cheribon to
Bantam, and in which the city of Batavia, so long the ad
miration and dread of the Eastern states, is situated,

alone acknowledged the sovereignty of the European
power ; so that, in fact, the principal part of the island
was still to conquer.

   An event occurred at this time to interrupt the satis

faction, and humble the heart that might have been too
much elated at the success which had crowned the expe
dition. Dr. Leyden was seized with a fever a few days
after he reached those shores, on which he hoped to slake
his ardent thirst for knowledge, and expired in the arms of
his friend.

   This loss was deeply mourned by Mr. Raffles, who had
anticipated the happiness of having, as an inmate of his
family, one with whom he could take counsel both in
public and private; whose judgment would aid, whose
affection would cheer, and whose society would brighten
the care and troubles of the responsible situation he was

about to undertake.
   Lord Minto remained in Java six weeks, and was inces

santly occupied in arranging the form of government,
laying down the principles upon which it was to be con
ducted, forming plans for the suppression of piracy, and
consulting with the future Governor of the island on
various points of anticipated difficulty. One of two
courses was to be taken : either to abandon the island to

                                                    k2

132 LETTER TO MR. MARSDKN.

the natives after having plundered it, or to retain it in
our own hands.

   It is difficult to imagine that the first-mentioned plan

was ever agitated ; but truth requires it to be stated, that
it was seriously contemplated, and checked only by the

energy and determination of Lord Minto. It has been

already said, that he took upon himself the responsibility
of acting on a more benevolent principle, and determined
to do all in his power to promote the happiness of those
whom the fortune of war had placed under his orders.

   Mr. Raffles communicated to Mr. Marsden his appoint
ment to the government of Java in the following letter :--

                     FROM MR. RAFFLES TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                        Weltevreeden, (near Batavia,) Java,

                                                                   October bth, 1811.

      " My dear Sir,
             " The press of public business at the present

Imoment is so great, that am sure you will excuse me

from entering at length into any subject. The public
prints will inform you of the great and invaluable con

Iquest which we have made, and shall only add that,

after having been employed for above a year as agent to
the Governor-General in obtaining information, forming
plans, and bringing to a focus the intentions of government

Iagainst this place, have now the satisfaction to be in

stalled Lieutenant-Governor of the Island of Java and its

 dependencies.

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.                    133

   " No man better than yourself can appreciate the value
of this new acquisition to the British empire--it is in fact

the other India.
   " My time has been so completely taken up in political

Ioperations, that have been compelled for many months

to leave my literary labours on the shelf untouched ; but

my present situation, and our new conquest, afford such a

Iwide and unparalleled field for research, that should be
Iworse than Goth or Vandal if allowed it to remain un

tried even in the literary way.
   " Lord Minto is now here, and we have it in contem

plation to bring forward the Batavian Asiatic Society as

Isoon as circumstances admit. do not know whether you

have heard that we held a meeting of the Asiatic Society

Iat Malacca on our way down.  sent you from thence a

paper of mine intended for the next volume of the Re

searches.

  If I" it were possible to get it copied in time would

send you by the present conveyance a copy of my last
I Ireport to Lord Minto on the eastward.
                              hope shall be

able to send it by the next ship, as it will put you in full

possession of the enlarged views which have lately opened

to us in the East.

  I" You will, am sure, condole with me, as the friend of
Iliterature and virtue, in the loss have lately sustained in

the death of my dear friend, Doctor Leyden ;--he died at

this place on the 27th of August, of a fever. We have

lost in him a host of men. Had you known him, you

134  PRINCIPLES OF THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT.

would never have ceased to deplore his death. --Eastern

literature has lost in him its firmest support.  ·
          *#**

" I am happy to inform you that I have large and

valuable collections on various points connected with your

Ifavourite studies ; these shall, as soon as possible, put

into some kind of form.

" I hope by the first arrival to receive your new edition

of Sumatra.  How goes on the Dictionary ?
                                       " Your's faithfully,

                         " T. S. R."

   Lord Minto, during his stay in Java, made several
arrangements for the suppression of piracy ; and having,
whilst he was at Malacca during the progress of the

expedition, received ambassadors from the state of

Banger Masing, courting the alliance of the English,
his Lordship appointed Mr. Hare resident of this place,
with the view of checking this destructive system of
native warfare.

   In order to appreciate the difficulties of the situation
in which Mr. Raffles was placed, the extent of the
changes which it was requisite to introduce, and the
views which he formed of the principles of government,
it will be necessary to advert very briefly to one or two

leading principles of the Dutch rule.
    One of the chief sources of the Dutch revenue was

the monopoly by government of the grain and other

PRINCIPLES OF THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT.  135

produce of the land, which the cultivators were required
to deliver at an inadequate and arbitrary rate, which
articles were afterwards dealt out to the consumer at
a far higher price, so that, in fact, the whole body of the
people depended on the government for their very sub
sistence. The principle of encouraging industry in the
cultivation and improvement of the country, by creating
an interest in the effort and fruits of that industry, was
wholly unknown.

   The mode of collecting this revenue in kind remained
with the Regent of the district, leaving the cultivators no
security beyond the claims of usage and custom; and
although custom prescribed a certain portion only of
the crop to be delivered, there were no positive means
of preventing a greater levy. Thus, while the power
and influence of authority could be successfully exerted
to stifle complaints, the peasant, though suffering the
greatest injustice, despairing of relief, would endure
almost any privation and suffering rather than quit the
land of his forefathers, to which he felt himself attached
by the strongest ties of religion, of habit, and of affection.

   Feudal service was another of the grievances and op
pressions under which the natives groaned. No means
existed of affording a direct control on the demands for
labour. The public officers of the Dutch government
universally employed the services of the people without
regular hire. Their demands were unlimited. The
native chiefs followed the same system. No check

136 PROJECTED CHANGE OF SYSTEM.

existed ; and thus the energies of the people were
crushed, and their labour fritted away, becoming pro
ductive neither to themselves nor to the state. In short,
they were reduced to the lowest state of vassalage and
subjection. To this ruinous system was to be added the
pressure arising from the failure of external commerce.

   The Dutch government, forced to look within itself for
relief, discovered the embarrassments to be daily increas
ing. Under this exigency, the funds of public societies
were appropriated to the government treasury ; and the
private property of individuals was forcibly borrowed in
the same manner. An arbitrary increase of paper-
currency was issued, to provide for the daily expenses
of the State ; and this being found inadequate, the
government were compelled to deliver a proportion of
colonial produce in payment of these establishments, or,
in other words, to pawn the produce in store, to satisfy
the current demands upon the public treasury. Such
was the financial state of the country at the period when
the English assumed the administration of Java.

   It would be endless to notice the difficulties and ob

stacles which occurred in the establishment of a pure
and upright administration. Not only was the whole
system previously pursued by the Dutch to be sub
 verted, but an entirely new one substituted, as pure and
 liberal as the old one was vicious and contracted; and

 this was to be accomplished and carried into effect by the
 very persons who had so long fattened on the vices of the

PROJECTED CHANGE OF SYSTEM.  137

former policy. Some few were sufficiently enlightened
to perceive the advantages of the new system: two of
these, Mr. Cransen and Mr. Muntinghe, on this account,

were regarded by Mr. Raffles with the highest esteem.
   Those who know how difficult it is to carry on a govern

ment, even where the choice of agents is great, where each

well knows the duty which he has to perform, and where
the state of society is such, that every man acts as a check
upon his neighbour, will be able to appreciate the labour
and the anxiety which devolved on Mr. Raffles, when
Lord Minto left him to arrange the details of that system
of which they had together formed the outline.

    Buoyant in spirit and firm in courage, when once he
had adopted a right principle of action, Mr. Raffles was
keenly alive to the difficult and arduous task which he had
to perform; responsible for all, at a distance from any
superior authority, without one individual with whose
principles he was acquainted, and of whose abilities he
had any experience ; yet forced to set the wheel of govern
ment in motion, and to watch its progress with unceasing
attention, whilst all the details of every department were
to be formed by himself; nothing but the facility of
arrangement which he possessed could have accom
plished so much with so little assistance, and in so short

a time.

    The manner and time of bringing about this change,
however, required the most serious consideration ; and
before he took any decided step in the new organization,

 138 ENGLISH RESIDENTS APPOINTED.

 he instituted statistical inquiries in every district, and
collected the most detailed information in every depart
ment ; the result of which convinced him that a thorough
 change in system was not only advisable and practicable,

but indispensable, no less for the interests and honour of
the British government, than for the happiness and pros
perity of the country at large. He examined minutely
every department; drew up himself every detail and in
struction for the agents which he employed, and with all
the courage of a pure and ardent mind, commenced that

thorough reform, which with unwearied assiduity he
laboured to establish during the whole period of his
administration.

    The result fully equalled the highest expectations and
estimates which had been formed of its success : and so
judiciously was the change introduced, that not a single
individual, high or low, felt aggrieved by it ; the native
population, chiefs, subordinates, and people, with one
accord, hailed the new order of things as a boon con
ferred upon them by British philanthropy, and entered
on the enjoyment of its advantages with confidence and

improving industry.

   The first act of Mr. Raffles was to send English Resi
dents to the native courts, and in the course of a month
most of the expensive establishments of government were
discontinued ; the departments of revenue, commerce, and

judicature, were materially reformed, and new arrange

ments adopted by the 1st of January, 1812. In connec

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.        139

tion with these important changes a general survey was
made of the whole island ; and detailed information col
lected in most of the districts of the lands attached to

each village, while a body of valuable statistics was com
piled and arranged, as well for the immediate use of
government as for future historical reference. The labour

attending the performance of such varied and extensive
duties was naturally very great ; Mr. Raffles had, for
tunately, at this time sufficient vigour of body as well as
of mind to devote himself to them from daylight until

midnight.         is an extract from Captain  Travers'

   The following
Journal :--

   " The official documents, already published, give a full,
clear, and satisfactory account of the zeal and ability
evinced by Mr. Raffles in the administration of Java,
whilst few, perhaps, are aware of the application and
attention which he devoted to his public duties. With

a constitution already impaired by climate, every one
was astonished at the exertion and fatigue he underwent ;
and the Dutch, who were altogether unaccustomed to
witness such activity of mind and body, were unable to
keep pace with him.

   " The government of such an island as Java, with
its dependencies, was a change of no trifling responsi
bility, and not the less so during the time of war ; but
Lord Minto judged correctly when he told Mr. Raffles

140 EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.

that it was not ' so much as an acknowledgment of his
past services, as in consideration of his peculiar fitness
for the office,' that he appointed him to the charge
of such a government. Mr. Raffles was fully aware of
the trust, and with all the ardour peculiar to himself com

menced the task.

   " His mild, conciliating, and unassuming manners,
obtained for him the respect and confidence of the

Dutch, whilst the natives, who had been led to form the
highest possible opinion of his character, looked with
anxious hope for that amelioration in their condition
which they afterwards experienced, and which will make

his memory adored on the island of Java for ages to

come.

   " Soon after the capture of the island, and when Lord
Minto had gone to Bengal, Mr. Raffles removed from
Ryswick to Buitenzorg, the country residence of the

former Governor, distant forty miles from Batavia, and

here he kept a most hospitable table. He went to
Ryswick every week to attend the council, consisting of
General, then Colonel, Gillespie, Commander of the
forces, with Mr. Muntinghe and Mr. Cransen, Dutch
gentlemen, who had held high situations under the
former government. At Ryswick he remained a day

or two, according to circumstances, and occasionally saw
company there ; but the climate at Buitenzorg being so
far superior, he was always anxious to return, and seldom
lost much time on the road, performing the journey in

LETTER TO MR. RAMSAY.  141

four hours. He was most attentive to the members of

the former government, who were constant guests at his
table."

   In a private letter, dated Batavia, in March 1812, to

his friend the late Mr. Ramsay, Secretary to the East
India Company, Mr. Raffles touches upon the internal
arrangements connected with the government of Java.

   " In this respect stand foremost the judicial and police

arrangements. Previous to the establishment of the
British government in Java, there was no distinction
known between the police and the judicial administration

of justice. At Batavia, however, there existed a Supreme

Court of Judicature and a Bench or Court of Aldermen,
called the College of Schepmen ; and at Sourabaya and
 Samarang inferior courts of justice had been established ;
and in each district a court termed the Landrost, con

sisting of the Landrost, Regent, and Highpriest, exer
cised both the police and judicial jurisdiction ; the only
distinction which existed was, that all the Company's
servants should be amenable to the regular courts of
justice, or to the Supreme Court at Batavia, while all
other persons of every description were under the juris

diction of the Schepmen. A difference of persons was

altogether so strongly against our principles of public
justice, and public and individual right, and the principle
 on which such distinction might originally have been
founded had so entirely ceased by the abolition of all
 distinction between the servants of the late Company

142 PROCLAMATION TO THE PEOPLE OF JAVA.

and all other individuals, that an entire change and sepa

ration of the police from the judicial authorities became

necessary, and was directed by the instructions left with

me by the Governor- General.

   " The copy of the proclamation published in our first
government gazette will sufficiently explain the principles

Ion which we proceeded ; and flatter myself with the ap

probation, not only of the Governor-General, but of the
authorities in England, of the measures taken by us of

Iestablishing the trial by jury, which am happy to say

has given universal satisfaction here ; and although, with
the other new arrangements, giving rise to new difficulties,
is not likely to meet with any serious obstacle. The
courts of justice and police, as new modelled, are now in

Ifull exercise ; and hope this colony may receive all the

advantages of British jurisprudence, without entailing on
it the disadvantages of a judicial establishment from
England, of all things the most to be dreaded for the
general prosperity and happiness of the population.
The British courts of justice fit with difficulty our per
manent English establishments in India ; but here their

introduction would only lead to anarchy, vexation, and
trouble without end'.

                          * " PROCLAMATION.

   " For the satisfaction of the inhabitants and people of Java, the fol
lowing provisions are made public, in testimony of the sincere disposi
tion of the British Government to promote their prosperity and welfare.
The refusal of their late government to treat for their interests,
although disabled by the events of war from affording them any

PROCLAMATION TO THE PEOPLE OF JAVA.  143

   " The Dutch law is directed by the proclamation of the

Governor- General to be continued; but, in explanation

further protection, has rendered the consequent establishment of the
British authority unconditional. But an English government does
not require the articles of a capitulation to impose those duties which
are prompted by a sense of justice and a beneficent disposition. The
people of Java are exhorted to consider their new connexion with

England as founded in principles of mutual advantage, and to be con
ducted in a spirit of kindness and affection.

   " Providence has brought to [them a protecting and benevolent
government: they will cheerfully perform the reciprocal duties of

allegiance and attachment.

   " 1. His Majesty's subjects in Java will be entitled to the same
general privileges as are enjoyed by the natural-born subjects of Great
Britain in India, subject to such regulations as now exist, or may
hereafter be provided, respecting residence in any of the Honourable

Company's territories.

   " 2. They will have the same privilege and freedom of trade to and
with all countries to the east of the Cape of Good Hope, and also with
His Majesty's European dominions, as are possessed by natural-born
subjects of Great Britain.

   " 3. Dutch gentlemen will be eligible to all offices of trust, and
will enjoy the confidence of Government according to their respective
characters, conduct, and talents, in common with British-born subjects.

   " 4. The vexatious system of monopoly which is understood to have
heretofore prevailed in some instances to an oppressive and inconve
nient extent, will be revised, and a more beneficial and politic principle
of administration will be taken into consideration as soon, and to such
extent, as full information on the subject can be obtained, as esta
blished usage and habit may admit, and as may be consistent with a
due regard to the health and morals of the people.

    " 5. The Dutch laws will remain provisionally in force, under the
modifications which will be hereinafter expressed, until the pleasure
of the supreme authorities in England shall be known ; and it is con

 ceived that no material alteration therein is to be apprehended.
    " The modifications to be now adopted are the following :

    " First. Neither torture nor mutilation shall make part of any

 sentence to be pronounced against criminals.

                                                                            -

144 PROCLAMATION TO THE PEOPLE OF JAVA.

Iof this law, it is necessary should state, that the law of

Java is not so much the national law of Holland as a

   " Secondly. When a British-born subject is convicted of any
offence, no punishment shall be awarded against him more severe

than would be inflicted by the laws of England for the same crime.
And in case of doubt concerning the penalty by English law, reference
shall be made to the Honourable the Recorder of Prince of Wales'
Island, whose report shall be a sufficient warrant for awarding the
penalty stated by him to be agreeable to the laws of England. No
sentence against any British-born subject for any crime or misde
meanor shall be carried into execution until a report shall have been

made to the Lieutenant-Governor.

   " Thirdly. No sentence of death against any person whatever shall

be carried into execution until a Report shall have been made to the

Lieutenant-Governor.                    will have the power of re
   " Fourthly. The Lieutenant-Governor

mitting, moderating, or confirming all penalties, excepting incon

siderable fines, short imprisonment, or slight corporal punishment.
   " Fifthly. British-born subjects shall be amenable to the jurisdic

tion of the Dutch tribunals, and to the Dutch laws, in all cases of

civil complaint, or demands, whether they be plaintiffs or defendants.

  " Sixthly. All British-born subjects shall be subject to the regu

lations of police, and to the jurisdiction of the magistrates charged
with the execution thereof, and with the maintenance of the peace,

and with public tranquillity and security.

  " Seventhly. All persons belonging to, or attached to the army,

who are by their condition subject to military law, shall for the present
be tried for any crimes they may commit only by courts martial,

unless sent by the military authorities to civil courts.

  " Eighthly. It being necessary in all countries that a power should

exist of forming regulations in the nature of legislative provisions
adapted to change of circumstances, or to meet any emergency that
may arise ; and the great distance of the British authorities in Europe

rendering it expedient that the said power should for the present
reside in some accessible quarter, it is declared that the Lieutenant-
Governor shall have full power and authority to pass such legislative

regulations as on deliberation, and after due consultation and advice,
may appear to him indispensably necessary, and that they shall have

                     LAWS OF JAVA.                        145

colonial law. The foundation of this law is certainly that
of the twelve tables. The civil law, or Roman code, and
some of the general laws of the States- General, are made
to apply; but the ordinary statutes, and those which
apply in most instances, are either the statutes passed in
Holland, or by the Supreme Government from time to
time : these form a body of regulations and laws pecu

liarly adapted to the place ; and if divested, as they are

now directed to be, of cruelty and torture, and modified
in some instances wherein the punishment of death may
be considered to exceed the offence, perhaps the best that
could be devised for this place. Whatever, therefore,
may be necessary to be done in this respect, should be
well considered and matured. The principle of the
British law is acted up to in most cases, and it is only in
local and provincial occurrences that this principle can be

the full force of law. But the same shall be immediately reported to

the Governor-General in Council in Bengal, together with the Lieu

tenant-Governor's reasons for passing the said regulation, and any

representations that may have been submitted to him against the

same ; and the regulations so passed will be confirmed or disallowed

by the Governor- General in Council, with the shortest possible delay.

The mode in which the Lieutenant-Governor shall be assisted with

advice, will hereafter be made known ; and such regulations will here

after be framed as may be thought more conducive to the prompt,

pure, and impartial administration of justice, civil and criminal.
   " Regulations respecting the paper-currency, as well as the relative

value of coins circulating in Java, will be published in a separate

paper of this date.

"Done at Molenvliet the 11th September, 1811.

         " By His Excellency the Governor-General of British India.
                                               " Minto."
                     (Signed)

VOL. I.                                        L

14G LAWS OF JAVA.

interfered with. In many instances the Dutch law, as it

is termed, might be more properly called the common

law, and at all events it is from its antiquity and long
authority considered through the eastward as the law of

the land.

   " In the collection of the revenue, the obnoxious system

of farming has been abandoned as much as possible, and

regular custom-houses have been established at Batavia,

Semarang, and Sourabaya.

  " A system of duties has been established, founded, in

some measure, on the extent of the duties heretofore col

lected, and with reference to the support of the dependent

situations of Penang, Malacca, Bencoolen, and the Moluc

cas, which sooner or later must fall under the immediate

government of this place, if Java continues a British set

tlement. The great quantity of prize property, and par

ticularly of coffee, which still remains on this island,

renders any change in the present system of coffee cul

ture, as recommended by Lord Minto, impracticable ; but

I have great hopes that the accomplishment of the grand

plan of amelioration in this and other respects, respecting

the agriculture and cultivation of this island, is not far

Idistant.  have an intelligent committee, of which

Colonel Colin Mackenzie has done me the honour to be

President, now sitting on the eastern part of the island,

Iand from the result of their labours trust to be possessed

of such additional lights as may lead eventually to a com

plete change of the present system of landed property, with

FEUDAL TENURE OF LAND.  147

out which little can be expected. With the exception of
the estates in the neighbourhood of Batavia, and of a few

lately sold at Sourabaya, the whole landed property in
Java is held on an acknowledged feudal tenure. The
Soosoohonan and Sultan are the lords paramount in their
districts ; and although the Company are literally so in

the districts properly termed the Company's provinces,
the power is transferred universally to the Regents, who
on condition of furnishing a certain quota or contingent
of produce, and in some cases of money, and rendering
with their people certain feudal service when required,
are possessed of absolute authority within their respective
districts, keeping the common people throughout in the

most abject state of vassalage. A material change was

however effected with regard to the Regents by Marshal
Daendels. Previous to his organization of the eastern

districts, the Regents had been supposed to hold their
authority of right, and their agreement with government
was considered as a contract ; but the Marshal, by a very
laudable stroke of policy, rendered them immediately
dependent on the European government, by giving them
commissions and instructions as officers of government.
This system has been followed up by the British govern
 ment, and each Regent has received his commission, and
 taken an oath of allegiance to his Britannic Majesty, and
 of obedience to the government of Java.

   I" By the next opportunity shall have the satisfaction

 of forwarding to the authorities in England several re

148 NATURAL HISTORY OF JAVA.

ports, from Dr. Horsfield and other scientific gentlemen,

on the natural history of this island, and as the Batavian

Literary Society have solicited that I should take that

Iinstitution under the protection of government,  trust

that by uniting our efforts with those of the Asiatic

Society in Bengal, very considerable light may be shortly
thrown on science and general knowledge. The numer

ous remains of Brahminical structures, in every part of

the island, prove, beyond a doubt, that a colony of Hindus
settled on this island about the first century of the Chris

tian era ; and the materials of which they are constructed,

induce the belief that this colony must have emigrated

from the Coromandel Coast.

   " The beauty and purity of these structures are entirely

divested of that redundancy of awkward and uncouth

ornaments and symbols which are found in India. The

interests of science and literature are by no means neg

lected on this island, and a valuable and highly interest

ing stock of information may be contemplated. A very

extensive collection has been made by Dr. Horsfield, on

account of government, of the objects in the animal, vege

table, and mineral kingdoms, which are peculiar to this
place; and the museum at the India-house will not be
forgotten, as soon as occupations of a more pressing
nature afford adequate leisure for an arrangement of our

collections.

Mr. Raffles wrote at this time on the same subject to

Mr. Marsden.

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.                                149

FROM MR. RAFFLES TO MR. MARSDEN.

Buitenzorg, Java, lid October, 1812.

" In one of your communications you desire to receive

information respecting the Bohun Upas, which appears to
Ihave, of late, been brought particularly to notice.
                                                      have

now the pleasure to transmit to you a full and satisfactory

report on the subject by Dr. Horsfield, a gentleman

whose attention has long been devoted to botanical dis

coveries in the natural history of this island.
   " Interested as you are in every thing which concerns

the further East, it will be satisfactory to you to know,

Ithat by the present opportunity have forwarded to the

Court of Directors specimens of many of the plants of

IJava, as well as of many new animals.  have also for

warded to them a short account of the medical plants of

Java, as well as a general mineralogical account of the

island by Dr. Horsfield.

  I" find it difficult to procure copies of these papers for

you, in consequence of the distress for copying-clerks ;

Ibut hope you will be able to obtain the perusal of them.

   " The Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences is reviv

Iing, and hope in another year the world will be pre

sented with an additional volume of its transactions.

  I" am collecting for you a variety of inscriptions found

in different parts of Java, and in Madura and Bali ; and,

if possible, some of them shall be sent by the present

conveyance. Drawings of all the ruined temples and

150 ACCOUNT OF THE UPAS.

Iimages are in hand, and it will not be long before shall

have it in my power to communicate to you fully, after
surveying the whole. Vocabularies in the Javanese,
Madurese, Bali, and Bugis languages are already com
pleted, and others in hand.

  I" Until may be able to write to you more at length,

the enclosed is a report of the small district of Pagitan,
and affords a view of the habits and institutions of some
of the Javanese."

   A short extract from Dr. Horsfield's account of the
Upas may be interesting :--

   " The tree which produces the Upas poison grows in
the eastern extremity of Java; it belongs to the 21st
class of Linnaeus, the Moneecia. The male and female

flowers are produced in catkins (cementa) on the same
branch, at no great distance from each other : the female
flowers are in general above the male. The characters of
the genus are: male flower, calix consisting of several
scales, which are imbricate ; corol, none ; stamens, fila
ments many, very short, covered by the scales of the recep
tacle anthers. The receptacle on which the filamens are
placed has a conical form, abrupt, somewhat rounded
above. Female flower, catkins ovate, calix consisting of
a number of imbricate scales, (generally more than in the
male,) containing one flower ; corolla, none ; pistil, germ
single, ovate, erect ; styles, two, long, slender, spreading ;

stigmas, simple, acute; seed-vessel an oblong drupe,
covered with the calix ; seed an ovate nut, covered with

                     ACCOUNT OF THE UPAS.               151

one cell. This tree is one of the largest in the forests of
Java; the stem is cylindrical, perpendicular, and rises,
completely naked, to the height of sixty, seventy, or
eighty feet. Near the surface of the ground it spreads
obliquely, dividing into numerous broad appendages, or
wings ; it is covered with a whitish bark : near the ground
this bark is, in old trees, more than an inch thick, and

upon being wounded, yields plentifully the milky juice
from which the celebrated poison is prepared. The sap
is contained in the tree-bark (or cortex). The inner
bark (or liber) of young trees is employed by the poorer
class of people in making a coarse stuff, which they wear
when working in the fields; but persons wearing this

dress, on being exposed to the rain, are affected with an

intolerable itching, which renders their flimsy covering
almost insupportable. The deleterious quality of the
poison exists in the gum ; the preparation of a poison
from which is an exclusive art of the inhabitants of the

eastern extremity of the island.
   " In clearing new grounds near the tree, the inhabit

                     it                  as they dread the cutane
                         is

                                    it,
ants do not like to approach

ous eruption which   known to produce when newly

cut down. But, except when the tree largely wounded,
                                         is

                                                    it
or when              felled, by which large portion of the juice
is                            a

            it
                 is
disengaged, the effluvia of which mixing with the

atmosphere, affects the persons exposed to              with the

symptoms just mentioned, the tree may be approached

and ascended like the other common trees in the forests.

152  MODE OF PREPARING THE UPAS POISON.

Like all other trees in its neighbourhood, it is surrounded
by shrubs and plants.

    " One of the Regents had caps, or bonnets, prepared
from the inner bark, . which were stiffened in the usual

manner with rice-water, and handsomely painted, for the
purpose of decorating his attendants ; but they all refused
to wear theny asserting that they would cause their hair
to fall off.

    " The following is a description of the mode of prepar
ing this poison. About eight ounces of the juice from
the tree, which had been collected during the preceding
evening, and preserved in a joint of a bamboo, was care
fully strained in a bowl. The sap of the following sub
stances, which had been finely grated and bruised, was
carefully expressed and poured into it ; viz. --arum, am
monium, common onion, and garlic, each about half a
drachm ; the same quantity of finely-powdered black

pepper is then added, and the mixture stirred. A single

seed of the capsicum fructicosum was then placed on the
fluid, in the middle of the bowl ; the seed began to reel

round rapidly, now forming a regular circle, then darting
towards the margin of the cup, with a perceptible commo
tion on the surface of the liquor, which continued one
minute. Being completely at rest, the same quantity of
pepper was again added, and another seed of the cap

sicum laid on as before : a similar commotion took place
in the fluid, but in a less degree, and the seed was carried
round with diminished rapidity. The addition of the

ACTION OF THE UPAS POISON.  153

same quantity of pepper was repeated a third time, when
a seed of the capsicum being carefully placed in the centre
of the fluid, remained quiet, forming a regular circle in
the fluid resembling the halo of the moon. This is the
sign that the preparation of the poison is complete."

   The common train of symptoms, is a trembling of the
extremities, restlessness, erection of the hair, affection of
the bowels, drooping and faintness, slight spasms and
convulsions, hasty breathing, an increased flow of saliva,
spasmodic contractions of the pectoral and abdominal
muscles, retching, vomiting, great agony, laborious breath
ing, violent and repeated convulsions, death.

   The action of the Upas poison is directed chiefly to the
vascular system. The volume of the blood is accumu
lated in a preternatural degree in the large vessels of the
thorax.

   The circulation appears to be extracted from the extre
mities and thrown upon the viscera near its source. The
lungs in particular are stimulated to excessive exertions.
The vital viscera are oppressed by an intolerable load,
which produces the symptoms above described, while in
the extremities a proportionate degree of torpor takes
place, accompanied by tremors, shiverings, and convulsions.

   The natives of Macassar, Borneo, and the Eastern
Islands, when they employ this poison, make use of an
arrow of bamboo, (to the end of which they attach a shark's
tooth) which they throw from a blow-pipe or sompit.

   The Upas appears to affect different quadrupeds with

154 JOURNEY TO THE EASTERN DISTRICTS.

nearly equal force, proportionate in some degree to their

size and disposition.

As soon as Mr. Raffles could command sufficient leisure

he visited the Eastern districts, and gave the following

short account of his journey to Lord Minto :--

  I I" shall only say was most highly gratified and satis
Ified with every thing saw ; it is impossible to conceive

any thing more rich than the country, both in cultivation

and scenery.  I was happy to perceive that between

Samarang and Sourabaya, neither the country nor the

establishments had suffered from the effects of the expe

dition, and that every thing was going on as if nothing

Ihad happened.         left Batavia on the 28th November,

1811, and landed at Samarang, after a tedious passage,

Ion the 4th December ; from thence visited Sourabaya

and Madura on my return, and reached Buitenzorg on

the 1st of January. To give an idea of the high state of

the roads, and of the facility of communication in every

Ipart of the island, it may be sufficient that inform you,
Ithat from Sourabaya to Samarang, 200 miles, was only

twenty-four hours on the road, and from thence to Bui

tenzorg only two days and a half, and this without any

fatigue."

             CHAPTER V.

Expedition to Palembang--Arrival of the Troops-- Gallantry of
   the attack -- Horrors of the scene -- Colonel Gillespie's account of
   the Sultan-- Measures adopted by Colonel Gillespie-- Sultan of
   Djocjocarta -- Mr. Raffles collects troops, and proceeds to Sama-
   rang -- Account of treaties with the Sultan -- General confederacy
   of the native states -- Unexpected and fortunate return of Colonel
   Gillespie --Assault and capture of Djocjocarta --European power

   first paramount in Java.

The apparent tranquillity which followed the success of

the British arms (1812) was but of short duration. The
state of some of the native powers on Java, particularly

that of Djocjocarta, and the proceedings of the Sultan of

Palembang, a dependency situated in the island of Su

matra, soon called for prompt and decisive measures, as

will be seen by the following extract of a letter from Mr.

Raffles to the Governor-General, dated the 7th March,

1812:--

  I" have the honour of reporting to your Lordship, that

on the 2d November last, finding that the season of the

year afforded the probability of communicating with
IPalembang,
             despatched a commission to that place,

consisting of Captain Phillips, Mr. Wardenar*, and Mr.

* Late Member of the Supreme Council of Batavia.

     156 EXPEDITION TO PALEMBANG.

    Hare*, for the purpose of taking charge of the Dutch

  Ifactory there, in pursuance of the capitulation, and of

    delivering the same over to Lieutenant Jackson, whom
    had appointed provisionally to act as Resident.

       " From a perusal of the documents now transmitted,
   your Lordship will observe, that the importance of the
   island of Banca and of the tin -trade occupied, at an early
    period after your departure, my most serious attention.
   Desirous of avoiding any unnecessary breach with any of

  Ithe Eastern chiefs, endeavoured to attain the object

   which government had in view by an amicable arrange
    ment, on terms far more advantageous and liberal to the
    Sultan of Palembang than he had enjoyed under the
   Dutch government. The residency of Palembang, as a
    former dependency of Java, having by right of conquest,
    and by the express articles of the capitulation, fallen
    under the British dominion, the object of the commission
    was to have this right acknowledged by the Sultan, and
    the privileges stipulated by the former contracts trans
    ferred to the British government. This being effected,
    it was intended to grant more liberal terms than ever
   were enjoyed by the Sultan, previous to the conquest of
    Java.

       " The commission, however, instead of meeting with
    such a reception at Palembang, as from the nature of
    their appointment they were entitled to expect, found the
    Sultan not only averse to acknowledging any of the

            * Appointed by Lord Minto Resident of Sambas in Borneo.

i

EXPEDITION TO PALEMBANO.  137

claims on which this negociation was founded on the part
of the British government, but in such a disposition as
rendered all attempts to enter into a new contract with
him fruitless and abortive. He not only treated with a
kind of ridicule and neglect the claims of the British
government to the contracts which subsisted with the
former government before the conquest of Java, but
rejected with disdain the new terms which were offered to
him. The Sultan altogether disregarded the representa
tions on the part of the British government, until he
received authentic accounts of the fall of Batavia; and
then, instead of listening to the demands of my agents,
Toonkoo Radin Mahomet and Syed Abu Bakir, that he
should consider the Dutch property and inhabitants as
under the protection of the English, who had conquered
Java and all its dependencies, he declared in a haughty
manner his intention of maintaining his entire inde
pendence of any power on earth. Struck, however, by
the sudden, and to him certainly unexpected news, of the

complete conquest of Java by the English, the Sultan

became anxious for his future fate, and by threats and
force compelled my agents to sign and seal false reports,
forged by the Sultan and addressed to me, in which it
was stated that the Dutch garrison had, agreeably to
their request, been sent to Batavia, and the fort razed to
the ground, long previous to the attack upon the island
of Java by the British troops ; and to cover the falsehood
of this report (on the faith of which he had laid the

158 EXPEDITION TO PALEMBANG.

foundation of his future independence), he formed the
diabolical plan of destroying every witness who might
hereafter appear against him, sending the Dutch inha
bitants in small prows down the river, where they were
murdered by order of the Sultan, and ordering my
agents to appear before him, that they might share the

same fate.

   " Considering all these facts, the evident hostile manner
in which the Sultan behaved to the acknowledged native
agents from the British government ; the treacherous and
barbarous manner in which he destroyed the property
and murdered the presumptive subjects of this govern
ment ; the arrogant and offensive manner in which he
rejected the most liberal proposition for an amicable
arrangement, which this government, ignorant of the
events which had taken place, made to him by means of
the commission, and the consequent certainty therefrom
that all further attempts for an amicable arrangement
would be as vain in effect as they would be unbecoming in
principle to the character of the British nation, it has been
left for me to resolve upon some immediate and decisive
measure, consistent with the dignity and interests of

 government.

   " A commanding force under Colonel Gillespie will

Iembark in two days, and trust, in less than a month,
Ithat may be in possession of satisfactory accounts of the
I Iresult. am aware that have taken much responsibility

jon myself in the adoption of hostile measures against

EXPEDITION TO PALEMBANG.  159

Palembang, without previous reference to Bengal; but

so many favourable circumstances concurred to induce the
measure, and so many obstacles in the way of its final
success appeared to present themselves in the event of

Idelay, that should not have felt myself justified to have

lost the opportunity of so much larger a force than could

ever have been subsequently left at our command. In

fact, the expedition must either have taken place now or

been delayed another year, and this consideration of itself

was enough to outweigh every objection ; the passage to
Palembang from Batavia may at the present season of the
year be effected in five or six days, and the returning

Ivoyage may be accomplished during the same period.
have provisionally appointed a Resident for Banca, and I

trust my next letter will communicate favourable intelli

Igence on this point. There is one thing have never

noticed regarding Banca, and that is, the harbour of
Klabbat, stated to be the most secure in India, and
capable of every defence -- the entrance to the harbour

being between two rocks or promontories, not half-pistol-
shot from each other, and a bason within, with fine bottom

and deep water, capable of containing, it is said, the navy

of England. It is directly in the route for our trade

through the China seas, and the situation of Minta, on
which it is projected, to form the first settlement in

Banca, is perhaps the most commanding that could be

Ichosen for the Eastern seas. If possible, will forward

more particulars, but the total want of clerks who can

 I GO EXPEDITION TO PALEMBAMi.

copy English legibly, forms at present a serious obstacle
to the transmission of all papers."

   An expedition was accordingly fitted out under the
command of Colonel Gillespie, who was entrusted with
the execution of the views of government, and who had
the whole management confided to his individual judg
ment and direction. The fleet consisted of his Majes

ty's ship Cornelia, Captain Owen; Bucephalus, Captain
Drury ; sloop Procris, Captain Freeman ; the Honour
able Company's cruizer, Teignmouth, Captain Howitson ;

Mercury, Captain Conyers. Gun-boats : schooner Wel
lington, Captain Cromy ; Young Barracouta, Captain
Lynch. Transports : Samdany, Minerva, Matilda, and
Mary Ann.

   Captain Bowen, of his Majesty's ship Phoenix, meeting
it at sea, took the command of the fleet as senior officer.

                                   TROOPS EMBARKED.

   Detachment of his Majesty's 59th regiment, three com
panies, rifle and flank companies.

   Ditto 89th regiment, five companies.
   Ditto, Madras horse- artillery and hussars dismou nted.
   Detachment of Bengal artillery; detail and detach
ment of sepoys, 5th and 6th battalions.
   Ditto, Amboynese.

  A considerable number of guns and military stores,

intended for the new settlement of Banca, were put on
board the transports.

         PASSAGE OF THE EXPEDITION.     161

Contrary winds and currents, which during the western

monsoon are violent and unchangeable, still maintained

their influence at this advanced season, and considerably

retarded the progress of the expedition, which reached

Nanka Island on the 3rd of April, 1812, where it con

tinued a week at anchor. Tents were pitched on shore,

and all the artificers were employed in the completion of

the boats intended for the passage up the Palembang
river, by constructing platforms for the field-pieces, and

making coverings to shelter the troops as much as pos

sible from the burning violence of the solar heat, and the

inclemency of the nocturnal air.
   The fleet was supplied with water of a very good

quality at this island, which is covered with wood, and

inhabited by bears, monkeys, and wild-hogs. Fish was in

great abundance, and pirates frequently visit the place to

take in water and fuel.

The armament got under weigh on the 10th of April,

and came to an anchor on the 15th at noon, opposite the

west channel of Palembang river.

The unavoidable delay which the expedition expe

rienced, by encountering contrary winds and currents in

the straits, afforded ample time to the guilty Sultan to

prepare either for resistance or flight. With a view to

the latter course, he had removed his treasure and women,

at a very early period, into the interior ; whilst himself

and his ministers sent message after message to the
British Commander, filled with expressions of respect,

VOL. I.                              m

162  PASSAGE OF THE EXPEDITION.

and framed with apparent candour, but hypocritical in
their language, and treacherous in their object.

   The continuance of the ebb tide during the whole of
the 19th of April obliged the fleet to remain stationary
till about four in the afternoon, when a gentle sea breeze
favouring its progress, enabled the flotilla to move,
though it was only for a short distance, as the wind soon
failed, and the flood tide being very slack, some of the
vessels got entangled among the branches of the trees
and bushes, which therefore it was necessary to cut away.

At the turn of the tide, which was about six on the fol

lowing morning, the flotilla came to an anchor.

   In the early part of the day Pangarang Sheriff arrived
from the Sultan of Palembang, begging to know the
intention of the British Commander in thus advancing

with such a force ; to which Colonel Gillespie returned
for answer, that he must acquaint the Sultan in person
with the propositions he was entrusted with on the part of
his government, and the messenger returned immediately.

   At five in the evening the fleet proceeded on its pas
sage ; but the tide becoming slacker every day in propor

tion to its distance from the sea, and the wind being
adverse, it did not gain above six miles all night ; the ebb
tide occurring at six the next morning, the 21st of April,
it anchored near the junction of False River.

   Another messenger, Pangarang Pranah, arrived in the
morning from Palembang, bringing with him a letter from

the Sultan, to whom he was related. In this epistle the

ARRIVAL OF THE TROOPS.  1C3

crafty monarch congratulated the Commander on his
arrival in the river Soosang, professing at the same time
to be the friend of the English, the design of which was
too obvious to impose upon those who were acquainted
with the writer's character. Colonel Gillespie replied
that he meant to be at Palembang in two days, where he
expected to see the Sultan, having matters to disclose to
him in person of the greatest consequence ; and at the
same time assuring the inhabitants of Palembang of the
protection of the British Government. Before the am
bassador could receive this reply in writing, another mes
senger arrived with a similar letter from the Sultan,
requesting an immediate explanation. Both the Sultan's
agents, therefore, returned together, about five in the
evening ; and as soon as the tide permitted, at seven, the

flotilla got under way. At sun-rise, on the 22d April,

the batteries at Borang were descried.

   In the course of the forenoon Captain Owen, of the
royal navy, with Major Thorn, Deputy Quarter- Master-

General, reconnoitred the batteries and armed prows
stationed there, which had been joined by a large Arab
ship, armed for the occasion, and sent down from Palem
bang by the Sultan to add to the defence of this post.
These vessels, with the floating batteries, were moored
across the river in echellon, raking with their guns the
whole length of the passage, whilst the numerous artillery
on the three fixed batteries bore across on the channel by
which the advance was to be made, thus enabling the

                                                                                m2

164  ARRIVAL OF THE TROOPS.

enemy to bring the fire of their guns almost to a ray on
any point in the line of advance. Numerous fire-rafts
were placed on the front and flank of the batteries, ready
to be set adrift to fire the shipping. Piles of wood driven
into the river defended the approach to the batteries, in
boats, whilst a strong palisade protected the rear and

flanks. A great deal of bustle and activity was observ

able within the several defences, which appeared to be

fully manned and prepared for resistance.
   The violent rain, which lasted all the afternoon, and

continued during the night, proved of considerable annoy
ance, particularly to the men who were embarked in boats.
Great indeed, and scarcely to be conceived, was the
fatigue the sailors and soldiers had to undergo in a region
where, during the day they were exposed, while employed
in laborious rowing, to the rays of a burning sun, directly
under the equator, and deprived in the night of the re
freshment of sleep.

   But notwithstanding the excessive hardships which all
ranks and descriptions of persons in the service were
called to bear, and the privations they had to endure,
nothing could shake their resolution or abate their ardour
in the performance of their duty.

   In the evening another messenger, named Pangarang

Martoo, arrived with a letter from the Sultan, importing
that he should be happy to see his friend, the Commander
of the expedition, at Palembang ; but requesting that he
would dispense with so large an armed force, and visit the

ATTEMPT AT DELAY.  165

capital unattended, being fearful, as he pretended, that
the appearance of so many troops would occasion serious
disturbances among the inhabitants of Palembang.

  It was easy enough to perceive the insidious drift of

this proposition; but the treachery of the Sultan had
already been too notorious to allow such fallacious decla
rations and hollow professions the slightest respect, or
even a moment's attention.

   Colonel Gillespie demanded of the messenger who last
arrived, an unmolested passage up the river, and also a
hostage as a security for their good behaviour ; to which
Pangarang Martoo instantly assented, offering at the
same time to give possession of the batteries, and to leave
them entirely at the disposal of the Colonel; the ship
that was lying there was also to be made use of as the
British Commander might please to direct. As a pledge
of their sincerity, a person bearing the title of Com
mandant of the batteries, and who accompanied the mes
senger, remained behind for the purpose of conducting
the troops to Borang.

   The proper arrangements being made to secure these
objects, on the following night Captain Meares, Malay
interpreter to the Commander of the forces, was directed

to proceed to Borang, accompanied by the officer who had
been left as a hostage, and to demand a decisive answer
whether or not they would let the batteries be taken pos
session of amicably, or whether they would resist the
passage of the flotilla. No time was allowed for equivo

166  TAKE POSSESSION OF THE BATTERIES.

cation on the part of the Chief Pangarang, and Colonel
Gillespie followed close after, at the head of the small,
but formidable array of the British advance, composed of
detachments of the 59th and 89th regiments, in light
boats, supported by the gun-launches and field-artillery
in the flat-boats. On their arrival at the dawn of day
within half-gun-shot distance of the batteries, the Panga-
rang came off with Captain Meares, and offered to deliver
up the works with all the other defences, which, in conse
quence, were immediately occupied by the British troops.
The garrison, terrified at their sudden approach, and un
mindful of the positive orders of the Sultan to defend the
passage to the last, took themselves to flight, and escaped
in some prows that had been kept concealed round the
eastern part of Borang Island, and on the western side of

Binting Isle. All the guns taken, to the number of one

hundred and two, were readily charged and primed.
The large ship afforded quarters for a great portion of
the soldiers, but the remainder were placed in huts and
floating batteries which had coverings.

   In the evening the troops were all re-embarked, and
proceeded on to a little distance. Fires now appeared in
all directions, and several of the rafts were set in flames
by the enemy, with the view of effecting, if possible, the
destruction of the shipping, which had not as yet passed

the batteries ; but though they were coming up at this
time (8 am.) fortunately the exertions of Captain Owen
with the crews of the light boats were successful in cutting

CONFUSION OF THE ENEMY.  167

the rafts asunder before they were thoroughly in flames,
by which means a general conflagration was seasonably
prevented. Several shots were fired from one of the Cor

nelia's boats at the Malays, who were seen setting fire to
the rafts, which had the effect of instantly dispersing them.

   Early on the following morning, the 25th of April, an
Arab arrived who stated himself to be the owner of the
ship before mentioned, and begging that she might be
restored, which request was granted. He brought infor
mation that the Sultan immediately fled from Palembang
on learning that the defences at Borang, which had been
considered such a formidable barrier, no longer obstructed
the further progress of the British troops.

    Colonel Gillespie, on hearing this, determined to push
forward with the light boats ; and whilst making this
arrangement another Arab arrived, the Pangarang Sheriff,
who confirmed the account of the Sultan's flight ; adding
the afflicting intelligence, that the greatest confusion,
plunder, and assassination prevailed, not only within the
interior of the fort and palace, but in many parts of the
city. Upon this Colonel Gillespie resolved to lose not a
moment, but to hasten by the quickest possible manner
to put a stop to this scene of horror, and by his immediate
presence prevent the execution of the massacre, which it
was reported the Sultan's adherents meditated to perpe
trate the very next night upon the wealthy Chinese and
other inhabitants, whose property was to become the prize
of the assassins.

168 GALLANTRY OF THE ATTACK.

   The Colonel, therefore, proceeded instantly with the
Arab chief in his canoe, accompanied by Captain Meares
and Mr. Villneruhy, a Spanish gentleman, who acted as
Malay interpreters. In that and another small canoe
which accompanied them, were distributed seven grena
diers of the 59th regiment ; and these were followed by
Captain Bowen, of the Royal Navy ; Major Butler,
Deputy Adjutant-General; and Major Thorn, Deputy
Quarter-Master-General, in the gig belonging to the
Phoenix, and ten more grenadiers of the same regiment,
in the barge of the same ship, with Lieutenant Monday,
R.N., and Lieutenant Forrest, of the 59th ; the remain
ing troops, under Lieutenant- Colonel M'Leod, having
orders to follow with all possible speed. The distance
was twenty miles, so that it was dark when the party
arrived at Old Palembang. The canoes, in one of which
the Colonel was, had gained much on the other two boats,
and were now completely out of sight, when a report of a
signal-gun, fired by the enemy, not a little alarmed them,
and increased the anxiety for the rest of the party ; the
more so, as every thing round tended to excite suspicion

of some treacherous design being in agitation. A dread

ful yell and shrieking in all directions was next heard, and
lights and conflagrations were seen throughout the whole
extent of this large tract of population, which stretched
along both banks of the river for upwards of seven miles.
By the redoubled exertions of the crews, the boats in the
rear were soon brought up to the support of the little

HORRORS OF THE SCENE.  169

band; and thus happily formed in time an important

junction.

   To paint the horrors of the scene that presented itself
in their true colours, or to attempt an expression of the

sensations it was calculated to excite, would be a difficult

task ; and the undaunted act which gained the possession
of the fort, the palace, and its batteries, may be credited
when the name of the leader is recollected. Undismayed
in the face of numerous bodies of armed men, Colonel

Gillespie boldly stepped on shore, at eight o'clock at
night, and with those who had accompanied him in the
canoe, and the seven grenadiers, he marched, with a firm
step, through a multitude of Arabs and treacherous
 Malays, whose missile weapons, steeped in poison, glim
mered by the light of torches.

    Huge battlements, with immense gates, leading from
one area to another, presented the frightful spectacle
of human blood still reeking and flowing on the pave
ment. The massive gates closed upon the rear, and
the blood-stained court-yards through which the party

were conducted appeared as if they were the passage to

 a slaughter-house.

   A Malay, who had pressed through the crowd, ap

 proached the Colonel, and was walking by his side,
 when a large double-edged knife was secretly put' into

his hands by one of his countrymen. It was a dark stormy

 night, and a ray of lightning, at the very instant when
 the man was pushing the knife up his long loose sleeve

170         HORRORS OF THE SCENE.

     ;

             it,

                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                              by
to conceal  discovered the weapon. The Colonel's eye

caught the object, and instantly turning round, he had

the fellow seized, totally regardless of the crowd; thus

fortunately frustrating, by his firmness, the murderous

design. The weapon was found as described but the

man contrived to steal away in the crowd, and escaped.

The palace exhibited a melancholy picture of devas

tation and cruelty. Murder had been succeeded

rapine and while the place was completely ransacked,

the pavements and floors were clotted with blood. In

every direction spectacles of woe caught the sight, and

were rendered peculiarly awful by the glare of the sur

rounding conflagration, accompanied by vivid flashes

of lightning, and loud peals of thunder.

The flames, which continued to spread destruction,

notwithstanding the rain that poured down in torrents,

had reached the outer buildings of the palace, and threat

ened the part where the Colonel, with his party, had

taken up their temporary abode. The crackling of

bamboos, resembling the discharge of musquetry; the

tumbling in of burning roofs with a tremendous crash;

the near approach of the fire, in the midst of an immense

hostile multitude and assassins altogether gave to their
            a

                                                  ;
situation a most appalling prospect.

The little band, consisting only of seventeen British

grenadiers, with the officers naval and military already

mentioned, and few seamen belonging to the gig and

barge, had to secure possession of the fort, and to provide

CAPTURE OF PALEMBANG.  171

for their safety, in the determined resolution of selling
their lives dearly, should any attack be made before the
arrival of reinforcements. Having carefully reconnoitred
by the light of torches the interior of the palace court,
and ordered all the entrances except one to be shut and
barricadoed, Colonel Gillespie stationed the grenadiers at
the principal entrance, and the strictest guard was kept
up. Soon after midnight they had the satisfaction of
hailing the welcome arrival of Major Trench, with about
sixty men of the 89th regiment ; and the remaining
part of the ordered advance, under Lieutenant-Colonel
M'Leod, joined the little garrison early the next morning.

   Thus an act of daring enterprise, conceived with judg
ment and executed with intrepidity, gained possession of
the fort and batteries defended by two hundred and forty-
two pieces of cannon, without the loss of a man. This
formidable position could not have been carried under any
other circumstances of attack, but by the sacrifice of many
lives, and by hazarding altogether the safety of the little

armament.

   The rapidity of the movement, and the sudden and
unexpected arrival of the few British at that late hour in
the evening, whose numbers were greatly magnified by
the panic which seized the foe, caused the immediate dis
persion of the Sultan's adherents, who fled in confusion,
and thus relieved the town from the miseries with which it
was threatened, of plunder and destruction. An American,
who was the supercargo of a large Chinese junk then lying

172  ACCOUNT OF THE DEPOSED SULTAN.

at Palembang, gave a melancholy description of the fate
with which they were threatened, and which would have
burst on them that very night, had the English not
arrived in time to prevent it. This junk, with all on
board, had in fact been marked out as the first victims.

   The measures taken to restore order and maintain tran

quillity were so effectual, that the inhabitants assumed
confidence, and many who had fled into the woods re
turned to their homes. The great body of the people
were pleased at the change, and rejoiced in being
relieved from the tyranny of the Sultan, which seemed
to have attained its height.

   The following report made to the Lieutenant-Governor
by Colonel Gillespie, when at Palembang, of the atrocious
conduct of the deposed Sultan, is given at length for the
purpose of showing the strong appeal made on the ground
of humanity to the British government to interpose in
putting a stop to the dreadful scenes of cruelty and op
pression which were daily occurring.

TO THE HONOURABLE T. S. RAFFLES, LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR,

                                          &c. &c. Sec.

      " Honourable Sir,

         I" As have been lately employed in acquiring

every information connected with the barbarous and cruel

Imurder of the Dutch factory and garrison at Palembang,

have deferred the transmission of any official report to you

Iupon this melancholy subject, until should have obtained

CRUELTIES OF PANGERANG RATOO.  173

the most accurate knowledge of all the particulars, that the

atrocity of the transactions enabled me to collect. In my

Iinquiries, have been occasionally so bewildered by false
Ihood, guilt, and prevarications, that have experienced

considerable difficulty in selecting the evidences most
worthy of attention. The choice, however, has been made

Iwith the greatest care, and imagine the circumstances
Iwhich shall now relate to you may be considered in

every way deserving of belief.

   "You are not ignorant that Pangerang Ratoo, the

eldest son of the late Sultan, is one of the most abo

minable and unprincipled villains that ever disgraced
humanity. The crimes committed by this barbarous

and sanguinary assassin, since the period he has been
enabled to indulge his abandoned inclinations, have been
distinguished by circumstances of such aggravated cruelty
and guilt, that the inhabitants of the kingdom have

beheld him with one common sentiment of horror, hatred,

and indignation. It is to the crimes of this iniquitous

monster that the massacre of the Dutch may originally
be attributed ; to the indulgence of his vicious propen

sities that his father is now indebted for banishment and

degradation.
   " Among other pursuits that were followed by him with

great avidity, was that of spearing the unhappy and de

fenceless wretches whom he accidentally encountered in
his lawless excursions, or of sacrificing their wives and
daughters to his abandoned cruelty and passions. In

174  CRUELTIES OF PANGERANG RATOO.

one of these infamous adventures he became enamoured

of a Chinese woman, whom he was determined to obtain ;
and, lest he should fail in support of his dark and diabo
lical character, he resolved on compelling the unfortunate
husband to assist in the completion of his wife's dishonour.
The refinement thus exercised upon cruelty and rapine
was more than the unfortunate husband could sustain
without complaint. He knew himself to be in the neigh
bourhood of the Dutch garrison, and called loudly from
his house for protection and assistance. An armed party
was detached to his aid, and pursued the Pangerang
Ratoo to his prow on the river, without being sensible of
the dignity they were so successfully routing; the dis
covery of this unpleasant truth was made by himself
before their separation. The boat was moored several
yards from the shore, and in consequence he was com
pelled to swim a considerable distance before his escape
was complete. No sooner, however, had he gained his
canoe than he turned to his pursuers, and cried with the
most callous effrontery, ' You are ignorant,' said he, ' of the

influence and power you have so audaciously defied i
know, to your confusion, that it is the Pangerang Ratoo
himself, and rest assured that in three days you shall all
of you be murdered, and your present habitations ren
dered such a scene of desolation, that they shall only be
fit for birds to build their nests on.'

    " The accomplishment of this barbarous purpose was too
successfully realized within the period specified by the

CRUELTIES OF PANGERANG RATOO.  175

Pangerang Ratoo. A message was sent to the Resident,

the Commandant, and principal officers of the garrison, in
which the Sultan requested them to appear in his presence
for the transaction of some important business. The de
signing cowards took advantage of this treacherous ma
noeuvre to introduce within the walls of the fort a mul
titude of armed Malays, as the followers of the great

men who brought the message from the Sultan.

   "The unwary and confiding Dutchmen, unsuspicious
of evil intentions, were speedily surrounded without the
hope of escape ; the guns were all seized by parties on

the ramparts, and the unfortunate garrison were dragged
to a scene of cold-blooded cruelty, which can never be
contemplated but with sentiments of horror and abhor
rence, proportioned to the enormity of such unmerited
and unprovoked violence.

   " Among the agents and instruments of this sanguinary

transaction, there is no character so remarkably promi
nent as that of Tumugung Lonong, the principal magis

trate of the town. He was not only the harbinger of

treachery and deceit in the first instance, but he was sub
sequently the promoter of the Sultan's cruelty, and his
adviser to destroy the fort, and leave no vestige of Dutch

property remaining, in Palembang, in order that they
might for ever be exempted from an alliance with

European nations.

   "In considering the choice of an ambassador to our

Igovernment, cannot sufficiently express my astonishment

176  CRUELTIES OF PANGERANG RATOO.

at the boldness and audacity of the Sultan, who selected
this infamous assassin as his agent and representative in
Java.

   " The very countenance of the villain betrays the guilt
of which he is capable, and the unwearied obstinacy with
which, in spite of every proof, he denied all knowledge of
the transaction, proclaims him, in my opinion, to have
been deeply involved in the commission of the murder,

Iand clearly meriting the most exemplary punishment.

have, therefore, stipulated most expressly with Adipattie,
that all the promoters and abettors of this inhuman mas

sacre shall be treated with great severity ; that their pro
perty shall be sequestered the moment they are known,
and a portion of it laid aside for the support of the wives
and orphans who have been so cruelly deprived of their

natural protectors.

   " There was one European woman among the unhappy

victims thus sacrificed by the Sultan. She was embarked

on the boats, and after suffering every violence and pol
lution her abandoned murderers were capable of offering

her, she was inhumanly butchered and thrown into the
river with the rest of the garrison.

   "The remaining women were sent as slaves up the
country, and the relation of distress, starvation, and misery
they encountered in their bondage, is calculated to excite
such sentiments of horror and indignation against the

Iwhole race, that at times can with difficulty hold inter

course with people allied to such monsters of barbarity.

         CRUELTIES OF PANGERANG RATOO.     177

" There was no punishment too severe, no persecution

too considerable, no degradation too humiliating for these

unhappy women. The Resident's wife was pregnant at

Ithe time of her seizure, and although should consider

few men capable of refusing pity and assistance to women
thus situated, they were unmindful of her claims to com

passion, and they left her in the jungle without nourish

ment, support, or shelter.

   " To detail the various miseries they suffered in slavery

Iwould occupy more time than have at present in my

power to bestow ; their food was always precarious, and

during months they lived on beetle-nut, or the refuse of
the dunghill ; in short, there was no refinement of op

pression to which they were not subjected by this despotic

tyrant.

   " Their joy on emancipation is proportioned to the
severity of their former sufferings, and their gratitude to

the government is animated and sincere. Except the one
previously specified, they are nearly all of them under my

Iprotection, and shall take the earliest opportunity of

either forwarding them to their friends at Java, or permit
them to remain on the island of Banca until some further

arrangements may be made respecting them.

  I I" have endeavoured to ascertain, as correctly as can,

the primitive source of the Sultan's inhumanity, which is

clearly to be attributed to the unbounded indulgence he

has always bestowed on the vices of his son. He appears
to have tolerated him in the pursuit of every evil, and

VOL. I.                                 N

178  MEASURES ADOPTED BY COLONEL GILLESPIE.

protected him in the accomplishment of every object to
which his unruly passions or violent inclinations hurried
him forward, and to have been but an instrument for the

protection of his son's wickedness. He has discovered
too late, by his own overthrow, the melancholy conse

quences that ought always to attend so unprincipled a
departure from every sacred law and moral obligation."

   On the 29th May, Colonel Gillespie made his final
report of the ulterior measures adopted by him, in placing
Sultan Katoo Ahmed Nujm-ood-deen on the throne in
the room of his brother, Mahmud Badruddin, who had
been deposed :--

   " The British troops were paraded from the wharf to
the hall of state, and surrounded at a distance the throne
of the Sultan. The flag of the kingdom was saluted with
twenty-one guns, and no mark of public attention was

omitted that could possibly testify my confidence and
respect. The Sultan himself was much affected during
the progress of the ceremony, and he was attended by an
immense concourse of people, who appeared sincerely to
rejoice at his unexpected good fortune. When he was
seated upon the throne, the British officers passed in suc
cession to pay him their respects, and they were followed
by numbers of his subjects, who vied with each other in
testifying their attachment and fidelity.

  I" shall have the honour to forward to you all the

public documents that were either proclaimed or ratified

upon this important occasion. You will see by the stipu

GENERAL ORDERS.            179

lations of the treaty, how completely they have been dic
tated with a view to our interests, and you will perceive
that the cession of Banca and Billiton is unlimited and

complete.

   " Although the Sultan was considerably disappointed

Iat the failure of his wishes respecting the British force,

had the satisfaction to leave him in the most confident

assurance of his safety and strength. He expressed the
most lively and grateful sense of all the benefits that had

been conferred upon him by the British government, pro

mised faithfully to use every exertion for the recovery of
the Sultan's treasures, and assured me the half of them

should instantly be forwarded to Batavia according to

a stipulation in the treaty between himself and the East
India Company.

   " In establishing the British authority at Minto (pre

Iviously called Minta by the natives), declared the island

of Banca to be named after his Royal Highness the Duke
of York; the capital town after the Right Hon. the
 Governor-General of all India ; and the fort now building

 there after his Excellency the Commander-in-Chief.
                                                   " Yours, &c,

                                 " Robert Rollo Gillespie."

   The general orders express the feeling entertained by
Mr. Raffles of Colonel Gillespie's service in this affair.

" The Lieutenant-Governor   Samarang, June 6th, 1812.

                           is happy to congratulate

                                          n2

180  GENERAL ORDERS.

Colonel Gillespie on his return to Java, and on the
full accomplishment of the objects of the late expe

dition.

   " The successful termination of these operations, in a

manner so highly beneficial to the interests of humanity,

and to the security and advantage of the British posses

sions in those seas, must be entirely attributed to the
prompt, judicious, and politic measures adopted under the
personal direction of the Commander of the Forces. And

although the applause so justly due on this occasion may
rather fall within the province of a higher authority, to

whom the proceedings will be submitted, it is gratifying

to the Lieutenant-Governor that he is not precluded from

bearing public testimony to the services which have been
rendered, nor of expressing his admiration of the superior

talent and character which have been so conspicuous

throughout.

   " The Lieutenant-Governor requests Colonel Gillespie

will accept his best thanks for the zeal, ability, and pre

cision with which the service has been executed : and in

recording his entire approbation and unreserved con

firmation of the whole of the arrangements made for the

future security and advantage of the British interests, the

Lieutenant-Governor is satisfied that he only anticipates

the sentiments of the Supreme Governor.

     " By order of the Lieutenant-Governor,

     (Signed)         " J. Eckford,

     " Acting Secretary."

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.  181

    The following is an extract from Captain Travers'
Journal at the time :--

   " The native courts of Djocjocarta and Souracarta be
came troublesome soon after the establishment of the
British power in Java, and Mr. Raffles determined on
visiting them for the purpose of satisfying himself as to
the merits of the complaints then made, and to inquire
into the abuses which were known to exist. The distance

was considerable, but his own personal convenience he
never considered. The rapidity with which he travelled
exceeded anything ever known on the island before. The

average rate was more than twelve miles per hour. Un

fortunately he was but badly recompensed for the exer
tion, as the arrangements he then made, and the tran
quillity he established, were but of short duration, as a
reference to the records of government will show. Imme

diately after his return from the native courts he planned
an expedition against Palembang, to punish the Sultan
for a most barbarous act of treachery and cruelty in
murdering all the Dutch residents there, the moment
that intelligence reached them of the capture of Java by
the English.

   " After the expedition to Palembang had sailed, Mr.
Raffles's attention was again directed to the courts of

Djocjocarta and Souracarta, where disturbances were re
commencing, particularly at the former place, and he, in
consequence, determined on proceeding to Samarang,
when he took his family with him. On his arrival at

182  MR. RAFFLES COLLECTS TROOPS, &C.

Samarang he obtained such information as led him to
suppose that it would be difficult to bring the Sultan of

Djocjocarta to pacific terms. He accordingly deemed it
prudent to collect such a force in the neighbourhood as

would enable him to dictate such terms as he deemed

advisable for the safety of the island.

   " At the time these operations were carrying on, Mr.

Raffles was availing himself of every opportunity of gain
ing local knowledge. The native chiefs were constant
guests at his table, and there was not a moment of his
time which he did not contrive to devote to some useful

purpose. The only recreation he ever indulged in, and
that was absolutely necessary for the preservation of his
health, was an evening drive, and occasionally a ride in
the morning. He was not, however, at this time an early
riser, owing to his often writing till a very late hour at
night. He was moderate at table, but so full of life and
spirits, that on public occasions he would often sit much
longer than agreed with him. In general the hour for
dinner was four o'clock, which enabled the party to take a
drive in the. evening; but on all public days, and when
the party was large, dinner was at seven o'clock. At
Samarang the society of course was small in comparison
with Batavia, but on public occasions sixty and eighty
were often assembled at the Government-house, and at

balls from 150 to 180. Mr. Raffles never retired early,
always remained till after supper, was affable, animated,
agreeable, and attentive to all, and never seemed fatigued,

MR. RAFFLES' RETURN TO BATAVIA.  183

although perhaps at his desk all the morning, and on the

following day would be at business at ten o'clock. In

conducting the detail, of government, and giving his
orders to those immediately connected with his own office,
his manner was most pleasing, mild, yet firm ; he quickly
formed his decision, and gave his orders with a clearness
and perspicuity which was most satisfactory to every one
connected with him ; he was ever courteous and kind,
easy of access at all times, exacting but little from his
staff, who were most devotedly attached to him. The
generosity of his disposition, and the liberality of his sen
timents, were most conspicuous and universally acknow

ledged.

   " As a public servant, no man could apply himself with
more zeal and attention to the arduous duties of his
office. He never allowed himself the least relaxation,

and was ever alert in the discharge of the important trust
committed to him ; and it is astonishing how long his
health continued good under such great exertions both of

mind and body.

   " Whilst remaining at Samarang, a fleet arrived at
Batavia from England, bound to China, and at the same

time a vessel was reported ready to sail from thence to
Batavia, which determined Mr. Raffles on proceeding
there without delay, to receive the despatches ; on which

occasion Mr. Assey, Secretary to Government, and my
self, accompanied him. We embarked on board a small
vessel, the Hamston, and had a very quick passage of

184 MR. raffles' return to buitenzorg.

only seventy-two hours ; during which time he drew up
the Report on the capture of Djoejocarta, entering into a
full and clear account of the circumstances which rendered
this measure absolutely necessary for the preservation of
peace on the island. We landed at seven o'clock in the
evening, when a grand public ball was given at Welter-
vreeden, to celebrate the anniversary of the Prince Re

gent's birth-day. At this entertainment Mr. Raffles, to

the astonishment of all present, attended, as it was sup-
posed he was at Samarang. He was the life and spirit of
the entertainment. Not less than three hundred persons
were assembled; and, indeed, on all similar occasions,

which were always duly celebrated under Mr. Raffles's
government, he contributed greatly to promote and en
courage the gaiety and amusement of the party. After
remaining a short time, he returned overland to Sama
rang, where he was most actively employed in completing
the arrangement attendant on the capture of Djoejocarta,
which of course brought an accession of territory to the
Government, and which called for local knowledge and
personal observation, to render profitable and advan
tageous. After obtaining all the information within his
reach, Mr. Raffles and his family returned to Buitenzorg,
at the close of 1812, where, of course, some arrears of
public business awaited his arrival, and to which he de
voted the most zealous assiduity."

   The Sultan of Djoejocarta, who was the most violent
and intriguing of the native princes in Java, entertained

SULTAN OF DJOCJOCARTA.  185

a rooted animosity against all the Europeans settled in
the island. Under the former government he had evinced
a degree of hostility which compelled Marshal Daendels
to direct an army against him, and to proceed in person
to his capital. The plans of the Sultan not being then
sufficiently matured on the one hand, and Daendels fear
ing the arrival of the British expedition on the other, a
compromise was entered into between them, by which the
Sultan agreed to pay the sum of 200,000 Spanish dollars
to the Marshal. The Sultan the more readily acceded to
this, as he cherished the idea of being soon enabled to
carry into full effect his vengeful purposes.

   The turbulent spirit of this chief had shown itself again,
after the establishment of the British in the island : in
consequence of which, Mr. Raffles thought it necessary
to proceed in person to the Sultan's court, in the month
of December, 1811, with the intention of fixing definitively
the relation between the two governments by a treaty,
which it was hoped would prove as binding on the one
side, as he felt it would be strictly observed on the
other. But the event soon proved the fallacy of such

an expectation.

   Mr. Raffles set out for Djocjocarta, accompanied by a
part only of the 14th Regiment, a troop of the 22nd Light
Dragoons, and the ordinary garrison of Bengal Sepoys in
the fort, and at the Residency-house. This was all the
force which, at the moment, he could command, and cir

cumstances did not admit of delay. The service was one

186  TREATY CONCLUDED WITH THE SULTAN.

of imminent peril ; the whole retinue were at one time in
danger of being murdered. Mr. Raffles received the
Sultan in the hall of audience. The Sultan was accom
panied by several thousands of armed followers, who ex
pressed in their behaviour an infuriated spirit of inso
lence ; and several of his own suite actually unsheathed
their creesses, to indicate plainly that they only waited for
the signal to perpetrate the work of destruction : had this
been given, from the manner in which the English were
surrounded, not a man could have escaped. Though at
this time no act of treacherous hostility took place, the
crafty and sanguinary Sultan drew from the circumstances
which he observed, a confidence in his own strength ; and
being thus persuaded that the expulsion of the Europeans
from the Island of Java was become more feasible, he

resolved at once to adopt means for accomplishing this
favourite object of his ambition.

    Mr. Raffles, however, concluded a treaty with him, on
terms which were considered, at the time, equally advan
tageous to the British interests, and beneficial to the
prosperity of the country, which remained under the
administration of the Sultan. In this treaty, the sove
reignty of the British over the island of Java was acknow
ledged by the Sultan, who confirmed to the English East
India Company all the privileges, advantages, and prero
 gatives which had been possessed by the Dutch and French
governments. To the Company also were tranferred the
sole regulation of the duties and the collection of tribute

LETTER TO LORD M1NTO.                                 187

within the dominions of the Sultan, as well as the general

administration of justice, in cases where the British inte

rests were concerned.

The Sultan on this occasion expressed his contrition for

the atrocities which had been committed under his autho

rity, and made professions of friendship, pledging himself

in every way to fulfil the conditions of the treaty.

   But he only waited for a favourable opportunity to
attempt the entire expulsion of the European power ; and
Mr. Haffles was obliged to proceed against him with an

expedition, which ended in obtaining possession of the

Sultan, as well as that of the hereditary Prince, without

plunder or harsh usage, and the country then fell under

the disposal of the English.

   Mr. Raffles concludes his account to Lord Minto
thus :--

   " The hereditary Prince has been raised to the throne ;

all the principal chieftains have submitted to his authority,

Iand the country has every appearance of tranquillity.

passed from Djocjocarta to this place in thirteen hours

(about a hundred miles), and accounts from every quarter
Iconfirm my expectations that the arrangements
                                                      had

made would prevent the possibility of commotion.
   " The European power is for the first time paramount

in Java. We are now able to dictate the terms of the

future connexion with the British government and the

native administration.

188           LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.

"The Craton having fallen by assault, it was impos

sible to make any provision for Government to cover the

expenses of the undertaking, consequently the whole

plunder became prize to the army ; it is considerable, but

it could not be in better hands ; they richly deserve what

Ithey got.   cannot speak too highly of the conduct of the

army."

  It will be seen by the following extracts, that Mr.

Raffles had the satisfaction to receive from Lord Minto

the most unqualified approbation of all his measures.

                     "Calcutta, 15th Dec., 1812.

     " My dear Sir,

         I" shall be impatient for the materials which
Iare called for, because am anxious to deliver, without

reserve or qualification, the very high and favourable

Iview now have of that whole series of measures, begin

ning with the expedition to Palembang, and ending with
the arrangement of the two courts of Solo and Djocjocarta,

connected and combined with each other as those mea

Isures were.  consider the result of the latter proceeding

as very glorious to your administration, during the short
period of which more will have been accomplished for the
security of the European power, the tranquillity of the
island, and the solid improvement of general prosperity

and happiness, than several centuries have been able to
perform, when the superiority of European power was
exerted, unencumbered by the scruples of justice and

good faith.

                  LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.             189

   " Nothing can be more excellent than all your arrange

ments in the eastern districts of Java.
   " With regard to Palembang and Banca, your latest

reports have enabled us to approve, without reservation,

the arrangement formed at Palembang, and the" an
nexation of Banca to the territories of the East India

Company, our minds being satisfied upon the two points
of justice and expediency. The sovereignty of the Sultan
of Palembang in Banca is placed beyond question, and
leaves that dependence of Palembang indisputably sub
ject, both to the laws of conquest in so just a war, and
to the effect of cession from the authority under which it

is now held.
   " Believe me ever, my dear Sir, most truly and affec

tionately yours,

                                          " Minto."

   This private letter is so far of importance as it shows,
in the most unreserved manner, Lord Minto's anxious

desire to record his opinion publicly before he quitted

India --the delay in acquiring and transmitting the neces

sary materials unfortunately preventing his doing so, and
to this unavoidable omission may be attributed much of
the trouble and difficulty in which Mr. Raffles was after
wards involved.

                                                             r

                     CHAPTER VI.

Difference of opinion between Colonel Gillespie and Mr. Raffles --
   Re-establishment of Society of Arts --Importance of connexion
  between Java and China to the East India Company's interests --
   Consequence of a King's government upon their monopoly --Lord
  Minto's anxiety to provide for Mr. Raffles, in the prospect of the
   Island being transferred to the crown --Lord Minto's approval of
   the measures of government -- Calling in depreciated paper -- Pro
   mise of an official approbation --Account of the Colonies -- Depre
   ciated state of paper currency -- Want of specie-- Land rental--
   Revenues of government --Proposed literary work -- Lord Minto's
   return to England -- His last letter on leaving Calcutta --Expe

   dition to Sambas.

In consequence of the desire of the Commander of the

Forces to retain a much larger military establishment in

the island than Mr. Raffles conceived to be necessary, or

than was in accordance with the directions and injunctions

of the Supreme Government, much painful discussion took

place; Mr. Raffles being very desirous not to bear too

heavy on the finances of the colony.

Mr. Raffles having already directed his attention, even

during the performance of his most arduous political

duties, to subjects more congenial to his taste, wrote

at this date thus :

I" forwarded by the Java several      " January, 1813.
                                      reports from Dr.

BATAVIAN LITERARY SOCIETY.  191

Horsfield on the natural history of the Eastern Islands ;
duplicates of these, with specimens of plants, and a col
lection of quadrupeds, birds, &C., are transmitted by the

IJuliana, and trust will be found acceptable, and worthy

of a place in the Oriental Museum. The Literary Society
of Batavia, which has been so long dormant, has been

again revived, its constitution has undergone an entire
change, and a spirit of inquiry and research is obvious

among its members, An additional volume of the

IBatavian Researches is now completing, and trust it

will not be long before the Society gives to the world a
proof of the advantages it derives under the mild and

protecting principles of the British government.
   " Statistical accounts are nearly completed of the whole

of the island, and the proceedings of the commission of

which Colonel Mackenzie is the President being about to

Iclose, look forward to an early opportunity of communi

cating on every thing which concerns the happiness and
prosperity of this colony, and of forwarding a detailed and
accurate account of its resources, advantages, and capa
bilities, under any and whatever authority or system of
government it may be eventually placed."

   It was about this time that Mr. Raffles re-established

the Society of Arts and Sciences in Batavia, to which he
alludes in the preceding letter. This institution had
entirely declined in consequence of the difficulties to
which the island of Java had been exposed for many
years. He hoped by this means to promote literary and

192  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS.

 scientific pursuits ; and it afforded him a source of great
 pleasure and satisfaction to be the instrument of giving
 new life to the first institution of the kind, which had ever
 been established by Europeans in the East. This society

 continued to meet regularly under his watchful care and
 superintendence, until the island was restored to the
 Dutch. The addresses which he delivered on the first
meeting of the society, and at a subsequent one in 1815,
 tended to excite a warm interest in all the members, while
they showed that the performance of the arduous duties of
a public station are not incompatible, and may be combined
with, an active pursuit of literary and scientific objects.

    The Discourse concludes thus* :
    " The Japanese are a people with whom the European
world might hold intercourse without compromise of cha
racter ; for the Japanese themselves are wonderfully in
quisitive in all points of science, and possess a mind
curious and anxious to receive information, without in
quiring from what quarter it comes.
   " Let us hope that now, when

                        ' That spell upon the minds of men
                       Breaks, never to unite again' --

no withering policy may blast the fair fruits of that spirit
of research which has gone forth from this Hall ; nor con
tinue, under any circumstances, to shut out one-half of
the world from the intelligence which the other half may

possess."

         * This Discourse will be found at the end of Vol. II.

         UNSETTLED TENURE OF JAVA.              193

   While thus occupied in the encouragement of every
object calculated to promote the good of the people whom
he governed, and to enlarge our knowledge of their insti
tutions, habits, and character, not only Mr. Raffles but
his superiors also in Bengal remained entirely ignorant
of the intentions of the Government at home, or of the
East India Company, as to the future condition of the
island. Years had elapsed, and still nothing was decided
on its fate. One of the chief difficulties with which Mr.

Raffles had to contend, and which indeed affected every
measure, arose from this uncertainty. He had to admi
nister the government of the island without knowing

whether it was to belong to the King or to the Company,
which led to embarrassment, and created differences of
opinion, as the wishes and interests of individuals were
likely to be affected by the decision. Mr. Raffles wrote
to Mr. Ramsay, Secretary of the East India Company,

on this subject.

         TO W. RAMSAY, ESQ., FROM MR. RAFFLES.

                                                            " Batavia, Jan. 8, 1813.

" There is perhaps no point of view in which the pos

session of Java deserves to be more seriously considered,

than in its connexion with China, and its influence on

the Company's interests and prospects there. It is of the

first importance to them, that in any arrangements which

may be made for the future government of this colony,

or for throwing the trade of India open to individuals,

vol. i.                             o

194 TRADE OF JAVA AND OF CHINA.

the nature of this connexion, and the extent of this

******influence should be fully known, in order that the Com

pany's interests at Canton, and their exclusive trade to
China may not be interfered with.
   "The state of the Company's finances in China has

***#**already induced the supercargoes to open a communi

cation on the subject. They represent the deficiency of
their funds, and ask for consignments from hence.
" Another point of moment is the extent to which

printed-cottons may be introduced into Java from Eng

Iland.  am most sanguine in my expectations of suc

cess, provided strict attention is paid to the patterns and

sizes, as well as to the other suggestions which accompany

the masters ; the consignments, however, should, in the

first instance, be considered rather as an experiment;

and, afterwards, if the cloths are once generally and

advantageously introduced, there will be no difficulty in

******increasing the quantity to an unlimited extent. The

extent to which other staples and manufactures may be

Iimported with advantage, have stated in a Report'."
   On the prospect of the island of Java being transferred
to the crown, and the probability of a King's officer being
appointed to the government, Lord Minto displayed a

   * The inhabitants of Java are now, 1829, principally supplied with
the cotton and woollen manufactures of England.

        GOVERNMENT OF JAVA.                      195

******generous concern to promote and secure the interests of

his friend, to whom he wrote as follows :--

                                                      " February 22nd, 1813.
  "I have already written to you concerning the ope

rations of this event (the arrival of General Maitland)

Iupon your situation ; and need not repeat my former

communication on a subject which is, however, deeply and

sensibly interesting to my wishes and feelings.
I" But
        have to acquaint you with an honourable

retreat, if your present office should pass into other

hands. Mr. Parker has been compelled by ill health to

Ifquit Bencoolen.  any obstacle should arise to the views

Iwhich suppose you might entertain on Java, in the event

of a change of government, or if you should prefer the

Residency of Fort Marlborough to any other situation
that might be open for you in the East, my resolution is

to appoint you to succeed Mr. Parker. It must not be

forgotten, at the same time, that the orders of the Court
of Directors are to place a civil servant of the Bengal

establishment in that office. That circumstance will not

Iprevent me from appointing you, because flatter myself

the claims which made so strong an impression on me will

Ibe admitted by others ; and am unwilling to doubt the

Court's confirmation of the measure, and the many

weighty and forcible considerations which certainly re

commend it.                            on the subject,  I

  " If there should be any hesitation        o2

LOG GOVERNMENT OF JAVA.

***** Ishould feel some reliance on the early exertion shall

have an opportunity of making, in person, at home, my
departure from hence being fixed for next January.

   " My opinion now is, that in military questions affect
ing especially the economy of your government, you
should adopt and carry into effect firmly, the measures
which, after every proper reference to the Commander of
the Forces, and with every due deference to his senti
ments, you ultimately judge to be either expedient in
themselves, or conformable to our instructions. To give
way on the spot, and refer to us to reverse the measures,
which have been conceded merely in a spirit of concili
ation, is a very slow and dilatory process, considering the
distance and length of time required for communication

between Java and Bengal. It might, perhaps, be admis
sible, if the instances were rare ; but opposition on such

points being not only frequent but uniform, an exercise of
the power vested in you on the spot becomes indis

pensable.

   " Pray let me know your wishes on the subject of your

Iappointment to Bencoolen as soon as possible. But

shall take care to make the office accessible to you by an
actual appointment, subject to your own option, as soon

Ias know with certainty that the present government of

Java is to be changed. You have had, and will still have
many competitors here, and some of the very highest
rank, merit, and pretensions in India ; but so far as the

APPOINTMENT TO BENCOOLEN.        197

power of this government can avail, you may consider the
affair as decided."

FROM LORD MINTO TO MR. RAFFLES.

                     Calcutta, May \0th, 1813.
I" Although nothing is certain,
                                 should think, on the

whole, that Lord Moira will arrive in Bengal in July, or

say by the 1st of August.
   " This expectation occasions a great embarrassment

and anxiety about you ; for the final decision concerning
Java may not be known in the country during my govern

ment, and there will consequently be a difficulty in ap

pointing you to Bencoolen, if that should be the case :

Ifor presume you would not wish to renounce Java

definitively until the necessity of doing so should be posi
                     IWhat can do at present is to keep
tively ascertained.

I IIfBencoolen open.
                     should learn, while am in office,

Ithat you are certainly to be relieved at an early period,

shall make your appointment to Fort Marlbro', and send

it to you at Batavia, that you may go at once from Java

to your own station.

  I" All that can be said is, that shall be watchful for

your interest, and shall omit nothing that depends on me

Ito accomplish what think due to your merits and ser

vices, as well as to evince the esteem and affection which

I have sincere pleasure in professing towards you."

EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM LORD MINTO TO MR. RAFFLES.

                                                                       June 22nd, 1813.

 I" cannot safely wait longer for authentic accounts of

198  APPOINTMENT TO BENCOOLEN.

Ithe resolution taken in England concerning Java ; and

have, therefore, adopted the measure of at once appoint
ing you formally to Fort Marlbro' ; to take effect on your

being relieved from your present office, or resigning it ;

the allowances to commence from the time of your depar

ture from Java.

I" The letter which        have just addressed to you as

President of the Literary Society of Batavia, leaves little

for me to add to the very gratifying proof of their kind

recollection and regard furnished by the address which

Iyou enclosed to me, and shall only say, in the sincerity
Iof private correspondence, that have derived from it very

Iparticular satisfaction.  hope you will ply your labours

-- the field is extensive, and to a great portion even of the

learned world new -- diligence has not been wanting, and

ability has been abundant in your era --for which, cer

Itainly, much is due to you, as you are truly told.  am

very grateful for the great stone from the interior of your

island ; in weight, at least, it seems to rival the base of

Peter the Great's statue at St. Petersburgh.

  I" shall be very much tempted to mount this Java

rock on our Minto craigs, that it may tell eastern tales of

us long after our heads lie under smoother stones.

   " Your Twelve Caesars* are placed on handsome

pedestals in the marble hall at Calcutta, and you would

be pleased to see how well they suit that fine room, and

   * Busts formerly in the Government Hall of the Dutch Governor-
General at Batavia, and sent by Mr. Raffles to Lord Minto.

         COURTS OF SOLO AND DJOCJOCARTA.     199

how ornamental they are to it. An inscription on the

pedestal of Julius Caesar is to make him tell his own his

tory and that of his successors, and how they all came

there. He will (prophetically it must be) introduce your

name into this chapter of his Commentaries.

                 * # ***

I" learnt with great pleasure that you have determined

Ito accept the Residency of Fort Marlbro'. When first

I Imade this proposition was not aware that might soon

Ilose the power of making the appointment.  have since

Ifelt considerable uneasiness lest should be overtaken by

an event which cannot be distant, and disabled from

Iaccomplishing an object which have so much at heart.

I wrote you by the Hussar under that apprehension, and

Ibefore  Ihad entirely determined the course should

pursue.

                     FROM LORD MINTO TO MR. RAFFLES.
                                                        " Calcutta, June 24th, 1813.

   " We have received the documents you have furnished
in support of the measures adopted by you, respecting
the, courts of Solo and Djocjocarta --we wish, of course,
from the great importance of the subject, not only to give

it a full consideration, but to accompany the judgment we
are to pass upon it with a satisfactory explanation of the
grounds on which the opinion is formed. This requires a
little, and but a little more time than, oppressed as we
now are by the winding up of an administration of seven
years, and by the despatch of ships to England, it has

200        LETTER TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.

been possible for us to afford--you need not, however, feel

Iany uneasiness on account of this short delay : have

myself read all the papers with the greatest attention,
and have perused a second time all that your correspond
ence and the proceedings of your government furnish on

I Ithis subject ; am happy to say that am myself entirely

satisfied ; and although the members of Council have not

Iyet read all the papers, the conversations which have

held with them on the subject leave me no doubt that we
shall concur in the result.

   " Our judgment on this and several other capital points
of your administration, which are not included in the

official despatches by the Nearchus, will be forwarded in a
week or two after the departure of that ship. Amongst
these are the operation of calling in the depreciated paper

which hung so heavily on your finances, an operation
which is highly applauded ; and the sale of lands which

enabled you to execute the former measure, which is also

approved.

" We           TO WILLIAM BROWN RAMSAY, ESQ.
                                                     " Buitenzorg, June, 1813.

           are still here, without any change, or even

rumours of a change, which, after the uncertain period

which has passed, may be considered as a very great im

Imediate gratification to us ; but am not so untutored in

the ways of the world, or so confident in the propriety of

the measures of our government at home, as to calculate

Iwith any certainty on the result.  am prepared and

         LETTER TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.  201

ready to meet a change whenever it may occur. At Ben-

Icoolen  am promised the chief authority, if removed
*****hence; at Penang, my standing in the service would

I Iinsure me a seat in the council, but confess that

should say farewell to Java with a heavy heart.
  I I" do not know whether am to attribute your silence

to an habitual laziness in every thing which concerns busi

ness, or to a carelessness about me and mine ; the latter

I Imust doubt, and would hope that you will not allow
Ithe former to supersede what, as a friend, have a right

to think my due.

   " It is most likely you think much less about us than

we think about you, and perhaps it is natural that it

I Ishould be so : will only say, that if you forget me,

will not forget you.
           " Adieu, and believe me ever yours,
                                " With sincerity and truth,
                                                            " T. S. R."

                                 TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.

                                                          Java, September 15 th, 1813.

    " Every thing is going on prosperously here ; and, as

I have often told you before, if the authorities at home

leave us alone, every thing must continue to go on pros

Iperously. You will hear of some war here ; but think
Iyou know enough of my disposition to believe that

prefer peace and harmony to war and anarchy ; and that

I would rather have kept my little army (about 12,000)

202  LORD MINTO'S LAST LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.

in comfortable quarters. My measures have been through

out successful.

  I" shall come home, not laden with riches and spoils,
Ibut, trust, with some little honour and credit."

   The time was now arrived when Lord Minto was to

take his departure from Calcutta, on which occasion he

wrote to Mr. Raffles the following letter, expressive of

the friendship he felt, and the warm interest he continued

to take in his welfare :--

                                                            Calcutta, November, 1813.

  " In taking leave of my public relation with you, as I

Imust in this letter, am at a loss how to proceed. On

the one hand, there are so many points, or rather exten
sive subjects, on which a free communication of my senti
ments is due to you, that every hour which remains of my
residence in India would be too few to acquit myself of
that debt, in a manner entirely satisfactory to myself or

Iyou. On the other hand, the last, or may say more

properly, the posthumous duties of my station in India,

added to the preparations for my departure, and the very
interesting offices of society and friendship which belong

to the occasion, leave only moments, when days would be
wanted, for the demands still outstanding against me.

You will, therefore, not impute to me want of interest in

I Ithe matter have now before me, if aim at conciseness
Iand brevity in a greater degree than am accustomed to

do. My official authority, and, therefore, my personal

          LORD MINTO'S LAST LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.     203

interposition in public business, was to end somewhere ;
and the arrears which the excess of labour required in
this government beyond the powers of human diligence,
must unavoidably cause, at the close of my Indian admi
nistration, have carried my demise a little higher than the
nominal termination of my office, in such a manner as to
leave the formal decision of several affairs which arose in

my own period, to the authority which succeeds me.

  I" You will accept, therefore, what am now able to

offer, as only the friendly suggestions of the deep and

Ilively interests can never cease to take in all that con

cerns your public trust, and your personal reputation and
             I IIn this may be less careful than might
welfare.

otherwise be, to separate my public from my private sen

timents in this letter.

          *  *           *  *                       *

" On the financial operation of withdrawing the depre

ciated paper from circulation by a considerable sale of

lands, the resolutions of this government must be con

Iveyed to you by my successor ; but am unwilling to

withhold from you my individual sentiments on a measure

of so much importance.

  I" begin, therefore, by assenting without reservation to

the absolute and exigent necessity which was the motive,

and is the justification, of the proceeding. The revenues
and all the demands of government were paid in paper

which could not be re-issued; there was, therefore, a

virtual suspension of receipt at the public treasury. To

204  LORD MINTO'S LAST LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.

    avoid this total loss, the paper must have been issued

    again, at the discount of the day, which would have dis
    credited the currency still more, and would have involved

    an enormous and constantly-recurring loss. This state
    of things left you no option but to withdraw the paper, to

    make room for some better medium of circulation, and the

    operation of the evil was too rapid to admit of delay.
       " The only plan for the redemption of the paper which

, could be found, appears very clearly to have been pre

   cisely that to which you had recourse --the sale of public
    property; and it must be deemed fortunate that this

    resource existed, and proved to be immediately available.

     I" consider, therefore, your measure to have been an

    able expedient in a case of great emergency.

     I" At the same time conceive the necessity of a prompt

    remedy to form the essential, and, indeed, the indispen

  Isable ground of the resolution that was taken, for should
   Inot, confess, have thought an extensive alienation of the

    public domains advisable in itself, under the particular
    circumstances of the colony at the time. First, it was too

    important a measure to be adopted during a provisional
    government, the duration of which is more than preca
    rious. Secondly, it ought (and naturally would, without
    the pressure of immediate necessity) to have received the
    previous sanction of the supreme government. Thirdly,
    although my views, as you know, lead to the transfer of

    public territory to the management of individual industry,

    and the creation of a genuine landed interest, with all its

LORD MINTO'S LAST LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.  205

immediate benefits and ameliorating tendencies, in the

room of the deplorable system of vassalage and depend

Ience under which land is now held in Java ; yet have

felt that this change could not be brought about suddenly,

partly from the very nature of all extensive changes,

partly from the circumstances of the colony, which con

tains at present neither capital nor capitalists enough to

afford a comparison between the value in the market, of

land and money, either fair or at all approaching to fair.

I should have inclined, therefore, to small and partial sales

of land, if alienation in perpetuity should have been

thought advisable at all, proportioned in some degree to

the disposable quantity of money in the hands of indivi

Iduals. But the general course to be recommended

conceive to be short leases, followed by longer, and ulti

Imately by perpetuities.  touch upon these points the

more willingly, for the purpose of conveying to you a

caution on the subject, founded on our knowledge of the

sentiments which appear to be the most prevalent at

home, but which you may not be apprized of.

   " There is a great division of opinion on the question

of permanent settlements, and the extension of that

system to the newly-acquired provinces under the Presi

dency of Bengal, which has in a great degree been carried

into effect during my administration.
   " The introduction of that system has been gradual in

those provinces, but yet more sudden than is approved at

home. But Java is in a state infinitely less favourable to

206  LORD MINTO'S LAST LETTER TO MR. RAFFLES.

perpetual alienations, and you may depend upon such

measures, unsupported by particular exigency, being dis

approved, and, indeed, disavowed and annulled by the

authorities in England.

   " There are many other points of public business,

Iindeed much too many, in which am in your debt ; but,
I Ias have already said, must break my staff somewhere.

  I" have had an early communication with Lord Moira*
Iconcerning your appointment to Bencoolen ; and have

the happiness to say, that he acquiesced entirely in the
arrangement that was made, and specifically in the pro

priety of your continuing to administer the government of
Java, until the future destiny of that island should be

fixed by the government at home.

  I" ought not to conclude without congratulating you

on the success of the Sambas expedition. * * *

" Your measures at Palembang, you will have seen,

have had our entire concurrence.  ***

I" My picture was far advanced before received your

intimation that the smaller picture formerly sent would

be accepted as an anticipation of the request contained in

Ithe address.  think you will be glad of this, as the full-

length, as large as life, which is now ready, is one of the

Ibest works ever saw, and every way worthy of the re

spectable body at whose command it has been executed.

  I" propose, when that picture arrives at Batavia, to

   * His Lordship had just arrived in Calcutta as successor to Earl
Minto.

SALE OF LANDS.  207

request that you will accept and keep the latter for my

sake.

  I I" must close here, but not take leave, for hope for

one more opportunity.
                                     " Believe me,

                  Ever most faithfully and alfectionately yours,
                                                         " Minto."

    The sale of lands alluded to in the foregoing letter, it
will be seen, was highly approved by Lord Minto as an
able expedient in a case of great emergency ; and of his
ability to judge from local knowledge, as well as general

experience, no one will doubt. It was, in fact, the only

expedient that could be devised to support the credit of
the new government, at a time when it was most im
portant to create a favourable impression upon the popu
lation, on the change of their rulers. Yet it was strongly
condemned by the Court of Directors ; perhaps because
they did not possess either the local knowledge or the
experience which were necessary to form a right judgment.

   The sale of lands was no new measure ; it had been

resorted to at different periods under the Dutch govern
ment, and more especially in the administration of Mar
shal Daendels, when not only large estates, but whole
districts, had been thus disposed of. The English go
vernment succeeded in a moment of the greatest public dis

tress, when the Dutch had been unable to pay even their
lowest establishments, when the funds of the public chari

208  EXPEDITION TO SAMBAS.

ties had been appropriated to the necessities of the state,
and the finances of the colony were bankrupt. The English
government succeeded also to the existing colonial laws
and usages, by which they were borne out in the right of
alienating such lands as might be found necessary for the
support of the state, and as a partial sale of lands had
been estimated among the available resources for the
expenses of the current year, and had passed without
comment by the supreme government, a tacit consent
might be implied that the measure in itself was justifiable.

   The expedition to Sambas, also alluded to in the fore
going letter, originated in a report brought by a trading
vessel of the loss of the ship Coromandel, and the increas
ing depredations of the piratical Chief of Sambas. This
report was sent to Captain Bowen, then senior officer of
his Majesty's navy on the station, with a request that he
would direct his attention to that quarter. Captain
Bowen in consequence expressed his intention of proceed
ing to Sambas, and requested a hundred men to act as
marines, his ships being short of their complement.
General Gillespie ordered the men to be supplied; but
the expedition was purely a naval one, and the supply of
these men the only concern the Java government had
in it.

         CHAPTER VII.

General Nightingall appointed to relieve General Gillespie-- Gene
  ral Gillespie brings charges against Mr. Raffles -- Decision of the
   Court of Directors on them -- Ancient characters on stones from
  the temples -- Establishment of the improved system of govern
  ment --Principles oh which it was founded -- Institutions of Maja-
  pahit, his division of society into classes -- Mr. Raffles' reasons for
  introducing the change in the tenure of the land -- His anxiety
  and fatigue during its progress -- Support of General Nightin
  gall --Eventual fate of Java --Hesitation of supreme government
  to give any rule for the guidance of the government --Forced to
  act in every measure of importance, in consequence, on his own
  responsibility -- Suppression of piracy -- Slave-trade declared to be
 felony, by a Colonial Law -- Can only be repealed by the mother
  country--Leading inhabitants concur, and registered their slaves
  -- Mission to Japan -- Opening of trade with it-- Disapproved by
  the Bengal government --Approved by the Court of Directors.

The difference of opinion before alluded to with General
Gillespie involved Mr. Raffles in great trouble, and aug

mented the cares and anxieties connected with the admi

nistration of his extensive government. Owing to some

misapprehension, and to other causes, which it is needless

now to enumerate, two months after the departure of
Lord Minto, General Gillespie conceived it his duty to

represent to the Governor- General in council at Calcutta,

that certain parts of Mr. Raffles' administration were

neither so purely nor so wisely conducted as the public

vol. i.                p

210 CHARGES AGAINST MR. RAFFLES.

service required. Of course, the Bengal government re

quired specific charges to be framed, which, when received,

were forwarded to Mr. Raffles for his replies.
   The charges embraced such a variety of topics, indeed

almost the whole extent of his government, that, had Mr.

Raffles not been perfectly master of his subject, or had he
been less correct in every branch of his duties, the severity

of this scrutiny would have been fatal to his public cha

racter, even had it not touched what every upright man

is still more punctilious in protecting from the breath of
slander --his own private fair fame. But the result in

Mr. Raffles' case was highly beneficial : for the inquiry
rendered it imperative upon him to enter into many dis

cussions, which delicacy would otherwise have prevented

his making public ; and, in fact, compelled him to lay

bare the whole system of his administration, with a

minuteness which, under any other circumstances, would
hardly have been allowable, but which in his case, under

these circumstances, was an absolute duty.

   In those distant regions, where the means of communi

cation with Europe are few and uncertain, and where,

even on the spot, the intervals which elapse between the
dispatch of letters and the receipt of answers are often of

great duration, it requires a long period before such mis

understandings are cleared up. Nevertheless, the clouds

which at first threatened to obscure Mr. Raffles' hard-

earned renown gradually cleared off ; and, one by one,

his enemies,  if,  indeed, he ever really had enemies, gra

CHARGES AGAINST MR. RAFFLES.  211

dually admitted, not only the purity of all his motives and
conduct, but perceived and acknowledged the sagacity of
his public measures. So irresistible, indeed, was the
force of truth, as exemplified on this occasion, and so uni
versal its effect in Mr. Raffles' favour, that there seems no

reason to doubt, had General Gillespie not fallen into an
honourable and early grave, he, as well as others, would
have borne a willing testimony to the unsullied reputation
of his former colleague ; when, upon the minutest acts, as
well as the most extensive measures of his administration,

being exposed to public investigation, all of them were
able to bear the scrutiny.

    The following letter will show that, in the midst of the
storm of public affairs, Mr. Raffles retained all the kind

liest affections of private life. It is addressed to the son

of his early friend and protector, the late Mr. Ramsay :--

                                TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.

                                                  " Buitenzorg, March 2Ut, 1814.

   " While you are quietly gliding on in the smooth and
sunny stream of private life, it is my lot to be tossed on

boisterous billows, and to be annoyed with all the clouds

and evils which ensue from party spirit.

   " Without family pretensions, fortune, or powerful
friends, it has been my lot to obtain the high station

I Iwhich now fill ; and have not been without my due

proportion of envy in consequence.
    " After this, you will not be surprised at what follows.
                                                             p2

212 CHARGES AGAINST MR. RAFFLES.

You are aware of the differences which occurred between

me and Major-General Gillespie, and that he, in conse

quence, applied to be relieved from the military command.

Arriving in Bengal after Lord Minto had left he found
                                                    * ; it,
the new Governor- General unacquainted with all that had
                                                            I* a
previously passed, and succeeded, to a certain extent, in
impressing him favourably in his behalf. He was com

mitted, in the course of some of our differences, by asser

tions which he had made and finding that he had
                             ;
succeeded in directing the current of public opinion
                                ;I a
good deal against me, he has brought regular charges*

against both my administration and character. The
whole are, thank God, easily to be repelled and the
      ;it
closer the investigation, the purer my conduct will appear.
Lord Minto fully aware of the violent faction which hasI II I
              I is
taken up arms against me, and will defend me in England.

In India have possession, and clear character to main

tain  let Satan do his worst.

For myself will declare, that so far from time and dis
tance having quenched a single spark of the friendship

once bore you, am at this moment more animated with

affection towards you than ever.  think of you, and feel

for you, as would for a brother and the anticipation of

once more meeting with you, brightens the prospect of

my returning to my native country.                  ;  but,

   " My enemies have said much, and written much

in the end, truth and honesty must prevail.

                                                           " T. S. R."

                CHARGES AGAINST MR. RAFFLES.  213

The charges reached Java at a period when Mr.

Raffles was engaged in drawing out his plans for the

change of system which he was about to introduce into

the country. Nothing can more strongly mark the faci

lity and the despatch with which he replied to them all on

the moment, than the circumstance of his having at the

time his house filled with company, and that he never

absented himself from the hours of social intercourse, or

neglected his usual and regular routine of business. The

minute which he drew up and recorded on this occasion,

and which, when printed, filled a quarto volume of mode

rate thickness, is a lasting monument of the powers of his

mind.

  It would be foreign to the object of this work, and to

the principle stated in the preface, to enter into a minute

detail of these proceedings ; but the Reader cannot be

otherwise than interested by the perusal of the following

extract from a letter of Mr. Raffles, referring to the period
of General Gillespie's departure from Java, when the dif

ferences which had occurred between them had seemingly

ceased to exist, and a complete reconciliation had appeared

to take place.

" The reconciliation was brought about by Captain

IElliott.  had no motive for wishing to withhold my

consent ; the public interest would, undoubtedly, be bene

fited by it. My differences of opinion, and the discus

sions that had arisen in consequence, were before the

214  CHARGES AGAINST MR. RAFFLES.

ISupreme Government, and in no instance had stated a

personal or private accusation, or one, the nature of which

was not apparent in my correspondence with the General
himself. As soon, therefore, as it was understood that no

reference was to be made to what had passed, and could

Inot be altered, hesitated not to meet the proposal.

   " There could be no personal consideration in this mode

of procedure, because, whatever mischief our mutual refer

ences could produce had already been produced ; the refer

Iences were gone, and could not be recalled.  therefore

confided in the honour of the General as a man and a

soldier, that nothing had passed on his part inconsistent
with our becoming friends ; concluding that General Gil

lespie would no more profess a friendship for a man, whom

Ihe had accused of base and corrupt acts, than would

Ihave condescended to accept the hand of one whom

knew to have accused me of them.

  " It is further to be observed, that General Gillespie, in

frequent conversations with me, declared his regret at

what had passed, and his fixed resolve to support the

measures of my administration ; nor was it to me alone

that this was said, it was repeatedly stated to the gentle

men of my family ; even his last letter contained the same,
imputing to the misrepresentation of some persons about

me the occasions on which we had formerly differed.
   " My cause, my honour, my public reputation and pri

vate character, are now before the Supreme Government.

CHARGES AGAINST MR. RAFFLES.  215

I ask only a patient hearing. Errors in judgment may
Ibe found in the complicated administration with which

am intrusted; measures of policy depend in a considerable

degree on opinion, and there may be some difference of

opinion, perhaps, with regard to those which have been

adopted by this government ; but the accusations against

my moral character must be determined by facts, and on

Ithis ground will challenge my accusers to produce any
Ione act of my government, in which have been actuated

by corrupt motives, or guided by views of sinister advan

tage to myself.

  I" have thus deliberately discussed the present charges,

and endeavoured to do so without anger or violence, but,

Imy Lord, my feelings of the injury have sustained are
Inot the less acute.
                      have been denied the means of

knowing the charges until all the influence of a first and

ex parte statement could be exerted, and the current of

public opinion continued to flow unrestrained, until the

reports obtained an unmerited credit from the very want

of contradiction."

   When this business was laid before the Court of Direc
tors, they expressed their decision in the following letter
to the Bengal government : but before this period the fate
of Java had been decided ; its restoration to the Dutch
had been agreed upon, and Java and its dependencies had
ceased to be of any interest to the public authorities of
Great Britain.

216  DECISION OF THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.

    " We have received your letter in this department of
the 8th December, 1815, in which you draw our attention

to your proceedings relative to the charges which were
preferred by the late Major- General Gillespie and Mr.
 Blagrave against Mr. Raffles, late Lieutenant-Governor
of Java, and communicated the judgment you have
formed and recorded, as the result of a deliberate investi

gation of those charges.
    " After a scrupulous examination of all the documents,

both accusatory and exculpatory, connected with this im
portant subject, and an attentive perusal of the minutes
 of the Governor-General, and of the other members com

posing the Council, when it was under consideration, we
think it due to Mr. Raffles, to the interests of our service,

and to the cause of truth, explicitly to declare our decided
conviction, that the charges, in as far as they went to im
peach the moral character of that gentleman, have not only

not been made good, but that they have been disproved,
to an extent which is seldom practicable in a case of

defence.

   " It is not our intention now to discuss the expediency

of the leading measures of the administration of Java,
while Mr. Raffles presided over the government of the
island. The policy of these measures is not only sepa
rable from the motives which dictated them, but there are

cogent reasons why they should be kept altogether distinct
and separate on the present occasion.

    " Before pronouncing upon the financial operations of

DECISION OF THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.  217

that government, we are desirous of fuller information and
further time to deliberate on their tendency and effects,

as well as on the circumstances under which they were

adopted.
    * Were their unreasonableness, improvidence, and ineffi

ciency clearly established, this would only indicate error

or defect of judgment, or, at most, incompetence in Mr.
Raffles for the high and, in many respects, exceedingly

difficult situation which he filled.
    " But the purity, as well as the propriety, of many of

his acts, as Lieutenant-Governor, having been arraigned,

accusations having been lodged against him, which if sub

stantiated must have proved fatal to his character, and

highly injurious, if not ruinous, to his future prospects in

life, his conduct having been subjected to a regular and

solemn investigation, and this investigation having de
monstrated to our minds the utter groundlessness of the
charges exhibited against him, in so far as they affected
his honour, we think that he is entitled to all the advan

tage of this opinion, and of an early and public expression
of it.

   " Mr. Edmonstone, in his elaborate and able minute,

has taken so comprehensive and just a view of all the acts
which constituted the grounds of imputation against the
personal character of Mr. Raffles, that it is quite unneces
sary for us to enter into a detailed scrutiny of the matters,

either of charge or refutation. On most, if not all, of the

points at issue, we concur with Mr. Edmonstone, both in

218          LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

his reasonings and conclusions ; and whatever judgment
may be ultimately passed on the various measures of the
late government of Java, which underwent review in the
course of the investigation into the conduct of its head,
we are satisfied, not merely that they stand exempt from
any sordid or selfish taint, but that they sprung from
motives perfectly correct and laudable."

   Mr. Raffles wrote the following letter to Mr. Marsden

about this time, on the various subjects to which his atten

tion was then directed :--

                      TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                                        " Buitenzorg, Jan. 12, 1813.

      " My dear Sir,

  I" had the pleasure to write to you about six weeks

ago, since which nothing very important has occurred in

this part of the world.
   " We still remain without official information respect

ing the future government of this colony, although the

public opinion seems decided in favour of its being trans

ferred to the crown.

I" It will,  am sure, afford you satisfaction to know

that every thing goes on prosperously; and that the

resources of the colony, during the last year, have fully

equalled my most sanguine expectations, The unfor

tunate state of commerce in general, and the distressed

condition of the island, at the period of its capture, have

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.  219

been much against us : but the happiest results have fol

Ilowed the decisive blow which found it necessary to

strike at Mataram ; and the country throughout is in the

most perfect state of tranquillity.
   " Had it not been for the uncertainty which exists

respecting the future government of the island, it was my

intention to have effected an entire new system and settle
ment of the revenue. The Dutch appear to have been

terribly behindhand in every arrangement of the kind;

the principal resources of the government were received

in kind; and the contingents or quota of the different

Chiefs fixed without reference to their means or ability.

   " In the provinces lately transferred to the European

government, the whole of the uncertain revenues col

lected by the native princes has been reduced to a fixed

land-rent, payable in money half-yearly ; and, if circum

Istances had admitted, should have carried the same

system through the country. In all changes, however,

some difficulties are in the first instance to be encoun

I Itered; and unless felt satisfied that could fully
Iestablish the new system before attempted its adoption,
I might, by a partial interference, hamper and annoy the

government which is permanently to rule over the island.

No exertions are wanting in collecting the most useful

and extensive information; and we are already far ad

vanced in a statistical account of each district. You are

aware that we have the advantage of Colonel Mackenzie's

abilities ; and that a commission of the best-informed

220  BATAVIAN SOCIETY OF ARTS.

colonists has long been deliberating on the best means
for improving the country, and ameliorating the condition
of the inhabitants. That we are not altogether idle will

be evident, from the honourable notice which Lord Minto

has been pleased to take of our proceedings ; and as his
Lordship's last address to the College of Fort William
pays so high and grateful a tribute to the memory of my

Ideparted friend, Dr. Leyden, enclose you the Gazette.

    " The Juliana takes home a very compact collection of
quadrupeds, birds, and insects, prepared by Dr. Horsfield

for the Oriental Museum at the India House. A large

collection of dried plants is also sent. Any observations
which you may offer on this first attempt will be very

useful.

  I" In my last letter, apprised you of the general state

of the Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences, and of my
exertions to revive it. You will now learn with pleasure

that this society is once more in full vigour. The former

regulations were by no means calculated to keep alive a
spirit of inquiry or research ; on the contrary, they seemed

to shut the door against every thing new, as an innova
tion ; and it therefore became necessary to remould the

constitution. With the celebrated Rudemacher the society
seems to have lived and died ; at least, it has been nearly
in a torpid state ever since. The lethargy with which all

Ithe members seemed to be oppressed, when first started

the subject, gave me but little hopes of success ; and the
jealousy, with which they were apt to look upon any inter

colonel Mackenzie's visit.                             221

ference, at first discouraged me ; but a more liberal spirit

Ihas at last prevailed ; and, trust, will soon pervade the
Iwhole body. The new regulations are simple; and,

think, you will approve of them on a consideration of how

much has been effected against prejudice and colonial

Inotions, which,  am sorry to say, are miserably con

tracted.

   " Colonel Mackenzie has visited Majapahit, and every

part of the island; and a large stone, weighing several

tons, with a long inscription in ancient characters, has

been brought from the ruins to Sourabaya. The charac

Iters on this stone are, believe, somewhat different from

those found at Brambana; and there is an old man at

Sumanap who pretends to decypher the character.        I

have seen some of his translations of similar inscriptions

in Madura; and they appear to record volcanoes and

Ibattles ; but must hesitate in offering an opinion, until
I have time to examine the whole personally. While on

the subject of ancient monuments, it will be interesting for

you to know, that we have not failed to take drawings of
Iall that have been found, at least of the principal.
                                                       have

one drawing of the temple at Brambana, representing the

edifice as it originally stood in its most perfect state ; and

it makes a most splendid appearance.
   " The undivided and unremitting attention, which the

duties of my present situation require, deprives me of the

Itime which should be happy to devote to literary pur
Isuits and scientific research ; but have made very con

222 REVENUE OF JAVA.

siderable collections; and a few leisure months, at any

time, will enable me to put them in some sort of order.

IThe field is so extensive and untrodden, that am cautious
Ihow venture to form an opinion, or even communicate

information on any particular point.

  I" hope it will not be long before the Batavian press

produces a Javanese Vocabulary, with some idea of the

Iconstruction of the language. have at present materials
Ienough to undertake it ; but would much rather induce

some abler hand to come forward.

" You must excuse the hasty and careless style of this

Iletter.  am obliged to snatch a moment now and then

from public business to get through it as it is.
   " As a copy of the Malayan Bible, printed at Batavia,

Imay form an addition to your library, have the pleasure

to send you one."

Reference has been already made to the change which

Mr. Raffles introduced, especially with regard to the

revenue in Java ; but, before entering into the details on

this subject, it may be well to state his own opinions of

the country and the people.
   " Six millions in Java, as many more in its dependen

cies, established on one of the richest and most fertile

soils in the world, happy in their original institutions,

were subjected to the arbitrary demands of the European

authority to deliver the produce of their soil either gratis,

or at such nominal rates as that authority thought fit to

bestow as a boon, and to give their personal services on

IMPROVED SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.  223

all occasions of public or private call without any reward
or return whatever, the demand on each district depend
ing on accident, or the convenience of the local or com
manding officer for the time being. As it affected the
general prosperity of the colony, the system was one
which closed every avenue to general commerce, repressed
every energy, and destroyed every incitement to industry

and improvement. In its results to the European power,
it had reduced the Government to beggary, while it

vitiated and corrupted all its officers, and all its depart
ments.

   " Under these circumstances, it was determined to take
a comprehensive view of the revenue and resources of
these possessions, and of the various and important in
terests involved in them, and to consider whether the

introduction of a system of administration more analogous
to that of our more permanent possessions in India might
not be both advisable and practicable. That it was most
advisable there seemed to be little doubt, for the Dutch
themselves had for many years declared the advantage of

some such change ; their deplorable condition abundantly
proved its absolute necessity, and the result of every
inquiry that was made proved that the interests of all
concerned must be benefited by such an arrangement.

    " That the existing system was vicious and ruinous all
good men were agreed, commission after commission
having been appointed by the Dutch government, with a
view of effecting a change ; that authority at last came to

224 IMPROVED SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.

the resolution that it was impracticable and unsafe : im
practicable, because the difficulties to be surmounted and
the corruptions to be put down were too formidable to be
opposed ; and unsafe, because it considered that any
attempt to interfere with the existing order of things
amongst the natives would lead to certain disorder and
bloodshed, and endanger the supremacy of the European

power."
   Mr. Raffles introduced what is called the village system,

founded upon that of the Hindus ; for though the natives
had from compulsion adopted the religion of their Ma-
homedan conquerors, they were strongly attached to their
ancient Hindu institutions. To accomplish this introduc
tion, he visited each district, in person made arrangements
with the several Chiefs, and in lieu of the contingents and
arbitrary exactions of the European government, esta
blished a permanent money revenue direct from the land,
which afforded the means of defraying the expenses of
the public establishments with regularity and certainty,
instead of leaving the government dependent on the state
of a foreign market for the irregular and uncertain sale

of its produce. All the ports on the coast were opened

to the general trader, and cultivation and commerce
rapidly improved.

   In the judicial department and police, independently of

the regulations for the interior of the country, which
formed part of the revenue and judicial system, essential
reforms were required in the several European courts of

CAPTAIN TRAVERS' ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.    225

justice established at Batavia, Samarang, and Sourabaya ;
Mr. Raffles introduced the trial by jury, and a clear and

simple code was compiled, containing the rules for the

different courts, and instructions for their officers. These

rules were printed in English and Dutch ; they show that
the practice of the Dutch courts was revised and modified
on the mild and just principles of the British constitution ;
and the fact of its continuing in force under the Dutch

government, will be sufficient proof that it was applicable

to the circumstances of the settlement.  It would be

needless to dwell on the research, labour, and caution

which such an undertaking required ; those who are ac
quainted with the difficulties and responsibilities of govern
ment under ordinary circumstances, will estimate the diffi
culties and responsibilities of these changes, in the mise
rable state to which Java had been reduced.

   The following extract from the Journal of Captain
Travers describes Mr. Raffles at this period of anxiety

and trouble.

   " At the time Major-General Sir Miles Nightingall

arrived to take command of the troops in Java, Mr.
Raffles was busily engaged in his favourite plan, and
making suitable arrangements for the introduction of an
improved system of internal management, and the es
tablishment of a land-rental on the island, a measure

which has given to his administration a lustre and widely-
spread fame, which never can be forgotten. The measure

is so fully explained, the necessity for its adoption so

VOL. I.                                  Q

226  CAPTAIN TRAVERS' ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.

clearly pointed out in the public records of government,

Ithat shall confine myself to the private circumstances

connected with its introduction.

   " When first this measure was proposed, it met, if not

with opposition, with at least such a cold and cautious
approval from the members of council, some of whom
spoke from long experience, and a supposed knowledge of
the native character, as would have damped the ardour of
a less zealous mind than Mr. Raffles possessed, and
indeed it was the opinion of almost every Dutchman with

whom he conversed, that such a system would never suc
ceed, and that the attempt to introduce it would be
attended with very bad consequences. But Mr. Raffles
had formed a very different opinion, founded upon the
soundest principles of reasoning, and with a philanthropy
peculiar to his character, he made himself perfectly ac
quainted with the reception which such a change of
system would experience generally throughout the island,

and the result justified the opinion he then gave. It was

in 1813 Mr. Raffles first acquainted the council of his
intention to amend the system of land-revenue on the

island, and the minute which he then recorded clearly
and distinctly developes the just and liberal, as well as
very able and enlightened view which he then took of the

subject.

   " In obtaining the necessary information to enable him

to frame such a system as, whilst it abolished the vicious
practice hitherto pursued on the island, would strengthen

CAPTAIN TRAVERS' ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.  227

the resources of the government, and, by doing away
feudal servitude, encourage industry in the cultivation
and improvement of the land, the greatest exertions were
required on Mr. Raffles' part, and he devoted himself
with his accustomed enthusiasm to the task ; night and
day he worked at it. To satisfy himself upon all local
points, to obtain personal intercourse and become ac
quainted with the character of the native Chiefs connected
with, or in any way affected by, this new system, Mr.
Raffles deemed it advisable to proceed to the eastern
parts of the island, where he remained a considerable
time, and visited every place, often undergoing the greatest
personal exertions and fatigue, which few accompanying
him were able to encounter ; indeed, several were sufferers

from the very long journeys he made, riding sometimes
sixty and seventy miles in one day, a fatigue which very
few constitutions are equal to in an Eastern climate. To
give effect to the measure, he was aware that his personal
presence would afford an influence and energy not other
wise to be obtained, whilst all delay for official reference
would be avoided. He therefore did not return to Bata-
via till he had the satisfaction of seeing the complete suc
cess of this measure, which gave to his administration the
credit of abolishing the most vicious and barbarous
system, and of introducing one which gave to a most
deserving and industrious population a freedom which
had been hitherto most cruelly withheld from them.

   " Mr. Raffles returned to Batavia in good health and
                                                                   Q2

228 CAPTAIN TKAVERS' ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.

high spirits, naturally elated with the complete success of

all his plans, and finding in General Nightingall a cordial

Isupporter.  consider that at this period he felt more

enjoyment than at any other during his administration in

Java.
   " The most friendly intercourse subsisted between the

Governor's and General Nightingall's families ; they were

constantly together ; and to the purest feelings of friend

ship and attachment which General Nightingall felt to

wards Mr. Raffles, he seemed to add the highest opinion

and admiration of the shining talents and abilities which

he found him to possess. At Buitenzorg the house was

Iconstantly filled with visitors, and well remember at the

time when Mr. Raffles was drawing up the minute of

council which he recorded on the 11th of February, 1814,

we had a large party at breakfast, dinner, and supper,

from which he never absented himself, but on the con

trary, was always one of the most animated at table, and
yet contrived to find time sufficient to write that minute,
which in itself would establish him to be a man of con

siderable ability and acquirement; and this was written

and composed so quickly, that he required three clerks to
keep up and copy what he wrote ; so that, in fact, this
minute was written with the greatest possible haste ; Mr.

Baffles' object being to have a copy made and sent home
by a vessel then under despatch in the roads at Batavia,

and this he accomplished.
   " But Mr. Baffles' quickness at composition was re-

CAPTAIN TRAVERS' ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.  229

markable. He wrote a very fine, clear, legible hand ; and

I have often seen him write a letter at the same time that

he was dictating to two assistants.

   " Immediately after recording the minute herein al

luded to, despatches were received from Bengal, com
municating to Mr. Raffles the unlooked-for and very
unexpected intelligence of Major-General Gillespie having
presented to the Supreme Government a list of charges
against his administration in Java. These charges were
of a most grave and serious nature ; but Mr. Raffles met
them like an innocent man. On the first perusal of them,

his plan of reply was formed ; and he answered every
charge in the most clear, full, and satisfactory manner, as
will be seen on reference to the book printed at Batavia,
containing these charges and reply. But it is well worthy
of remark, that when Mr. Raffles had finished his an

swer to the charges, he handed the whole to General

Nightingall to peruse, who having gone through them,
declared that, although (as he declared on his first as
suming the command of the forces in the island) it was
his fixed intention to have avoided all interference with
past occurrences, and to have kept clear of any differences
which had taken place previous to his arrival ; yet after a
careful perusal of the documents which had been laid
before him, and with a full and firm conviction on his
mind of the entire innocence of Mr. Raffles of all and
every charge brought forward by Major-General Gil
lespie, he could no longer remain a quiet spectator, and

230 CAPTAIN TRAVERS ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.

therefore in the handsomest, because altogether unso
licited, manner, he came forward to offer Mr. Raffles all

the support and assistance in his power to give.
    " Nothing could be more gratifying to Mr. Raffles'

feelings on such an occasion than to have the support of
an officer of General Nightingall's respectable character,
 obtained solely by a confidence in the rectitude and purity
 of the conduct he adopted since the commencement of his
 administration, every act of which was known to, and most
 carefully examined by, General Nightingall previous to
his making this kind and friendly offer; and indeed it
will only require a momentary look at the charges, to feel
 convinced of their unfounded nature.

   " At the time when these charges were received, and

 their reception was a surprise to every person, the Go
 vernment-house at Buitenzorg was quite filled with

 strangers. A large party, composed of Dutch and

 English, had been invited to witness the performance of
 a play, which was got up chiefly by the members of the
 Governor's staff. During this anxious time, when Mr.
 Raffles had so much upon his mind, not a visitor could
 perceive the slightest alteration in his manner; he was
 the same cheerful, animated person they had always found
 him ; at dinner, and in the evening, he appeared perfectly
 disengaged, and only seemed anxious how best to pro
 mote and encourage the amusement, and contribute to
 the happiness and enjoyment of all around him.

     " When the clear and satisfactory reply was drawn out.

CAPTAIN TRAVERS' ACCOUNT OF MR. RAFFLES.  231

 repelling every charge brought against Mr. Raffles, a

 proposition was made in council, and was recommended
 by General Nightingall, that confidential friends should
 be sent in charge of copies of these despatches to Bengal
 and to England, to meet the ex-parte statements which

 were known to be in circulation in both places. Mr.

 Assey, then secretary to government, was selected to pro
 ceed to Bengal, and as a vessel was then under despatch
 for England, it was deemed advisable to send me in
 charge of those despatches, together with a copy of the
 charges, and the reply sent to the Supreme Government.

 Before the vessel reached England the fate of Java had

 been decided; its restoration to the Dutch had been

 agreed upon, and consequently Java and its dependencies
 ceased to be of any interest to Great Britain."

    Before proceeding to a detail of the effects produced
upon the civil and political situation of Java by the intro
duction of so entire a change in the government, a view of

those reasons which induced the opinion so strongly urged
by Mr. Raffles may not be unacceptable. Under the

guidance of the enlightened and benevolent views of Lord
Minto, means were adopted to obtain every information,

and to institute that local inquiry, so essential to the suc

cess of the measures proposed. His Lordship, in his in

structions on the establishment of the government, ex
presses himself thus :--

   " Contingents of rice, and indeed of other productions,

have been hitherto required of the cultivators by Go

232 CHANGE IN THE TENURE OF LAND.

vernment at an arbitrary rate. This also is a vicious

system, to be abandoned as soon as possible. The system
of contingents did not arise from the mere solicitude for
the supply of the people, but was a measure alone of
finance and control, to enable Government to derive a

high revenue from a high price imposed on the consumer,
and to keep the whole body of the people dependent on

its pleasure for subsistence

  I" recommend a radical reform in this branch to the

serious and early attention of Government. The prin
ciple of encouraging industry in the cultivation and im
provement of land, by creating an interest in the effort
and fruits of that industry, can be expected in Java only
by a fundamental change in the whole system of landed

property and tenure.

  " A wide field, but a somewhat distant one, is open to

this great and interesting improvement ; the discussion of

the subject, however, must necessarily be delayed, till the

Iinvestigation it requires is more complete.  shall trans

Imit such thoughts as have entertained, and such hopes
Ias have indulged, on this grand object of amelioration ;

Ibut am to request all the information and all the lights

that this island can afford. On this branch nothing must

be done that is not mature, because the exchange is too

extensive to be suddenly or ignorantly attempted. But

fixed and immutable principles of the human character

and of human association, assure me of ultimate, and I

hope not remote success, in views that are consonant with

DUTCH SYSTEM IN JAVA.  233

every motive of action that operates on man, and are

justified by the practice and experience of every flourish
ing country of the world."

   In pursuance of these objects, the first subject which
offered itself to the consideration of Mr. Raffles was as
to the actual right of property, so far as it could be ascer
tained ; it being with him a principle, " that nothing
should be done to injure the existing rights of any class
of the people, or to break down the barriers which pre
scriptive usage or actual institutions had authorized in
the possession of property."

   It appeared, from the most deliberate investigations,
that in Java there existed no actual right of landed pro

perty between the Sovereign and the cultivator : the
several officers, whether at the heads of districts, divi
sions, or towns, were nominated by the chief authority,

and removeable at his pleasure. It was not unusual to

find the descendants of those, who had once been high in
office, reduced to a state of poverty among the lowest
classes of society. Policy and justice required that some

provision should be made for those actually in office at
the time of the introduction of that change, which would
at once deprive them of all their privileges.

   It appeared that, under the late Dutch government,

no communication whatever was held with the people.
Through their Resident, living at the principal town in
the district, all orders were conveyed to the Regent, who

nominated the inferior officers, and from whom the

234 DUTCH SYSTEM IN JAVA.

amount of revenue was received, the mode of collection
remaining in his hands, unchecked by the control of any
legislative measure whatever.

    The service of the people was also required by the
officers of the government, without any compensation
being afforded : the example was naturally followed by
the native Chiefs ; and thus were the industry and ener
gies of a people crushed by a system of feudal service, as
destructive in its operation as repugnant to humanity --
rendering the efforts of the cultivator hopeless to himself
and unproductive to the state. Justice, humanity, bene
volence, policy, and necessity, called for that change, the
beneficial effects of which were so speedily and so grate
fully realized.

   The Dutch government looked for their revenue only

in their commercial monopoly. The resources of the

eastern districts were sacrificed to the exclusive commerce
of Batavia, the capital ; and previous to the administra
tion of Marshal Daendels the whole amount of monies

collected from those districts did not exceed 150,000
Spanish dollars per annum (£37,500 at par). Some im
provements were effected in 1803 by Marshal Daendels,
but the system of monopoly and of farming the public
revenues being permitted to remain, no essential or per
manent advantage was derived, either to the government
or the people.

   At the period of the capture of Java by the British,

some partial and temporary relief was afforded to the

CHANGE OF THE SYSTEM.  235

poverty of the country, by a large sum of money brought
with the army and circulated in the country. The mili
tary disbursements of government in cash, the increase of
commerce after the removal of the blockade, together with
the friendly intercourse established with Western India,
contributed to alleviate some portion of the distress : but
as the system of farming the revenue to the Chinese, and
of collecting the rental from the Regents only, excluded
the peasantry from any immediate connexion with govern
ment, the specie thus circulated from the public treasury
fell into few hands ; the surplus was exported or hoarded,
without benefit to government or advantage to the people.

   Removing the barrier which existed to individual in
dustry, giving to the cul rator security for his crops,
abolishing the feudal service and transit duties, and at
the same time affording a liberal compensation to the
Chiefs and other officers for the loss of that authority, of
which they were in actual possession, formed the leading
features of that change which was, with such unparalleled
celerity and success, introduced by Mr. Raffles.

    That no difficulty might arise in the execution of Mr.
Raffles' well-matured designs, such instructions were
given, conformable to the peculiar circumstances of the
various districts, as precluded almost the possibility of
error on the part of the executive authorities ; although
those authorities were not at all times disposed to concur
in the principles laid down.

    The following is an extract from instructions to Mr.

236  INSTRUCTIONS TO RESIDENTS.

Hopkins, who was appointed a commissioner for settling
the revenue in those districts which were transferred from

the Chinese, and similar instructions were circulated to

the other Residents in the eastern districts, as far at least

as local circumstances admitted.
    " The internal management of the districts is to be

taken into the hands of government, and. to be adminis
tered without the intervention of native authority. The
lands are to be rented for an annual payment in money,

on the following general principles.

   " It has been deemed advisable, on the first introduc

tion of these arrangements, to enter generally into such a
detailed system of management as would include an im
mediate consideration of the rights and interests of each
individual cultivator ; and in the instructions given in the
other districts, it has been directed that the lands be in
the first instance rented to the chief local authority in each
village or community, whether recognised under the desig
nation of Petingi, Bakal, Surah, or other title. But as
the state of society and cultivation in the districts lately
held by the Chinese may admit of an exception, and a
more detailed settlement than elsewhere, you are autho
rized to introduce the same, to such an extent as may
appear safe and practicable, with a due attention to the
prejudices of the people and the tranquillity of the
country.

   " The heads of villages or communities being thus con
sidered, leases are to be granted in the Javanese lan

guage.

INSTRUCTIONS TO RESIDENTS.  237

   " In fixing the amount of rent, you will ascertain, as

far as practicable, the extent of all existing burthens, im
posts, and services whatever, and endeavour to determine
the amount these have hitherto borne to the produce of
the soil: which amount, after an equitable and liberal

allowance for any oppression hitherto felt, is to form the

basis of the rental to be demanded as the dues of go

vernment.

  I"As far as my personal information extends, am

inclined to consider that these dues may be generally
commuted, one district with another, for a payment in
money equivalent to about two-fifths of the annual gross
rice produce of the soil.

   "That the government and the country may receive
the full benefit of the arrangements now in view, and that
the principle may be clearly defined, it has been resolved

to abolish all internal taxes, contributions, deliveries at

inadequate rates, and forced services, whether to the
European or native authority ; and henceforward, what
ever produce or labour may be required for the service of
government, is, in every case and without exception, to be
paid for at the current market rate.

    " As the first settlement to be made can only be consi

 dered as preparatory to a more accurate and permanent
 arrangement for the assessment of the lands, it is not

 deemed advisable that the leases should exceed the

 period of one year.

   "It being essential and just that a liberal provision

238  INSTRUCTIONS TO RESIDENTS.

should be made for the Regents and other Chiefs, and
there being no objection to their retaining a certain
portion of land, the Regent of Passaruwang is to be
allowed lands which will afford him an annual revenue
of 2,000 rl. batto; and an equitable provision, in pro
portion, is to be made for the Regents of Poegar and

Banjowangy.

   " In order, however, that these appropriations may not

interfere with the general system, these lands are to be
regularly assessed in common with the other lands of the
district, and entered upon the general rent-roll ; but the
rent is to be remitted, and considered as the amount of

the respective pensions or salary of each individual.

   "With these exceptions, and such other as political

reasons may dictate, the whole of the lands are to be

rented out to the Chiefs of the villages, on the principles

already laid down.

   " An entire separation is to be made between the judi

cial and revenue departments ; and you will, as early as
practicable, and as the existing system may be super
seded by that now directed, forward a list of such per

manent establishment of officers, writers, &c, for each, as

may be necessary for the efficiency of the police and the
despatch of business.

   " The Regents are, in future, to be considered as the
chief native officers in their respective districts ; but it will

be obvious, that by the new arrangement they must be
effectually deprived of all political or other undue influ

INSTRUCTIONS TO RESIDENTS.  239

ence : and as the tranquillity of the country is an essential
and necessary object in establishing the new order, it is
presumed they may be most advantageously employed in
the department of police, while it must not be forgotten
that the watchful attention of the Resident must ever be

directed to their conduct in the execution of this duty.
   " On this account, and as compensation for further

emoluments foregone by the introduction of the new sys
tem, in addition to the advantages derived from the appro
priation of land already directed, the Regent of Passaru-
wang is to be allowed a salary of 3,000 rl. batto ; and the
Regents of Poegar and Banjowangy in proportion, and to
the extent that their services may be useful or available
under the new arrangements.

   " The whole arrangements now directed are in no way
to interfere with the payment of the contingent, recog

nition, or other dues to the government or the Regent, up
to the present period, from which date the new organiz
ation is to be considered as entered upon.

    " This, however, being the middle of the Javanese year,

 and as inconveniences might result therefrom, in deter
mining the amount of arrears to be paid on the old
system, it is considered that the line may be equitably
drawn, by fixing the same at one half-year's amount of the
whole, a principle which you will observe in balancing the
 accounts of the Regents with government, and to be
 attended to in determining the demands to be made by

 them on the people.

240 lieutenant-governor's proclamation.

   " That the country may feel the effects of the new sys
tem immediately, the free exportation of rice and paddy to
every part of Java has been authorized."

   The principles thus laid down in these instructions were

further confirmed by the following Proclamation, dated

Batavia, 15th October, 1813 :                in Council
   " The Honourable the Lieutenant-Governor

has, after the most minute consideration, deemed it advis

able to establish an improved system of political economy
throughout the island, with the intention of ameliorating
the condition of all its inhabitants, by affording that pro
tection to individual industry, which will insure to every
class of society the equitable and undisturbed enjoyment
of the fruits of labour ; and while it is confidently expected
that private happiness and public prosperity will be ad
vanced under the change of system, such alterations and
amendments will be hereafter adopted as experience may
suggest, or the improving habits and manners of the
body of the people may require.

   "The following principles form the basis of the new

arrangements, and are made public for general inform

ation.

   "1. The undue influence and authority of the native
Chiefs have been restricted ; but government avails itself
of their services in the important department of the native
police, which will be arranged upon fixed principles,
adapted to the habits and original institutions of the

people.

         lieutenant-governor's proclamation.     211

  "A competent provision in lands and in money has

been allotted to such Chiefs; and it therefore becomes

both their duty and their interest to encourage industry,

and to protect the inhabitants.
   " 2. The government-lands will be let generally to the

heads of villages, who will be held responsible for the
proper management of such portions of the country as
may be placed under their superintendence and authority.
They will re-let these lands to the cultivators, under cer

tain restrictions, at such a rate as shall not be found

oppressive ; and all tenants under government will be pro

tected in their just rights, so long as they shall continue to

perform their correspondent engagements faithfully ; for it

is intended to promote extensive industry, and consequent

improvement, by giving the people an interest in the soil,

and by instituting amongst them an acknowledged claim

to the possession of the lands, that they may be thus

induced to labour for their own profit and advantage.

   " 3. The system of vassalage and forced deliveries has

been abolished generally throughout the island; but in

the Batavian and Preangu regencies such a modification
of the former arrangements has been carried into execu
tion as it was found practicable, under existing circum

stances, to introduce ; and provisionally the Blandong
system will be continued to a certain extent in the central

forest districts.

"4. To encourage the cultivation of so important an

article of export as coffee may become, when the trade of

VOL. I.                                       R

242 LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR S PROCLAMATION.

Europe and America may be thrown open to free compe
tition, government have stipulated to receive any surplus
quantity of that commodity from the cultivators, at a rea
sonable and fixed rate, when a higher price cannot be
obtained for it in the market.

   " 5. To extend free trade and commerce, and to pro
mote a spirit of enterprise and speculation amongst the

inhabitants, the Bloom Farms have been abolished, the

duties upon the principal articles of export have been
taken off, and it is intended to modify and amend the
Custom-house regulations before the 1st of January. The
toll-gates and transport duties of the interior have been
diminished as much as possible, and in the gradual pro
gression of improvement they will be finally abolished.

   " 6. Every facility will be afforded towards obtaining
teak timber for the construction of small craft, and of such

additional tonnage as, upon the improved system, will be

undoubtedly required.

   " 7. Government have taken upon themselves the ex

clusive management of the salt department. It appears

that the inhabitants in most parts of the island paid a
very irregular and exorbitant price for this necessary
article of consumption ; while the system adopted by the
farmers was radically vicious, and equally oppressive and
vexatious to the people, as it was detrimental to the imme
diate interests of government.

   " Such an improved system for the supply of salt will
be immediately adopted as may appear advisable ; and in

             FERTILITY OF JAVA.                        243

this and every other arrangement, the government pro

pose the advancement of the interests and the happiness

of the people at large, and the promotion of the public

prosperity of this colony.

"Given at Batavia, this 15th day of October, 1813.

By me, the Lieutenant-Governor of the Island of Java

and its dependencies,

                            " T. S. Raffles."

" By order of the Honourable the Lieutenant-Governor

in Council,

                       "C. Assey, Sec. to Government.
" Council Chamber, Oct. 13, 1813."

   European power in Java, previously to the occupation
of the island by the English, appears to have been exer
cised only to invade and to destroy the property of the

natives.
   " Whoever has viewed the fertile plains of Java," says

Mr. Raffles, in a minute on the introduction of the new
system of government, " or beheld with astonishment the
surprising efforts of human industry, which have carried
cultivation to the summit of the most stupendous moun
tains, will be inclined to consider that nothing short of a
permanent interest in the soil could have effected such a
change in the face of the country ; and it ought not to be
forgotten, that anterior to the establishment of the Maho-
medan religion in Java, the cultivators of the soil were
considered to rank as the first class in the state ; for,

                                                    r2

244 EFFECTS OF THE DUTCH SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.

according to the institutions of Majopahit, it was ordained,
' that, next to the Sovereign, shall be considered and re

spected the cultivators of the soil ; they shall be the first

class in the state below the Sovereign ; next to them shall

follow the other classes ; first, the artists ; secondly, the

warriors : and thirdly, the merchants.'

" Who will not pause for a moment, to contemplate the

peaceful, the beneficent influence of such institutions ?--

The  cultivators  of the  soil  shall  be  the  first  class   "

                                                              !

   How do we find these wise institutions of Majopahit
supported and protected ?--forced servitude --taxes so

numerous as to become difficult of enumeration. Not

one article of produce, manufacture, or consumption,

which passed through the country, but what some tax

was levied upon it, and that too by corrupt and extor

tionate agents.

   In every district a different mode of taxation existed --

and, in general, these taxes were farmed out to Chinese.

The baneful influence of this system was but too clearly

developed in the debasement of the popular mind, and in

that listless and apathetic feeling which appeared to

characterize the Javanese nation. Whilst the rich and

powerful were living in pampered luxury, the poor pro

vincials laboured under all the horrors of penury and

want ; but blessed with a fruitful soil and an humble sub

missive mind, they were enabled to bear up under all

these accumulated deprivations and misfortunes.

The administration of justice in the courts of circuit

      EFFECTS OF THE ENGLISH SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT. 245

par Cook alike of this dreadful intolerance. The jury re
quired did not exceed five in number, and these were
chosen from a class of men who could have no common
feelings -- no common rights ; who, being Europeans,
were in no way whatever the equals of the person
tried.

    The law was the law of Europe. The jury, under their
best prejudices, were influenced by that law; and its
meanings and penalties were applied to a people who
reasoned in a manner so entirely different, and who often,
for the first time, became acquainted with those laws when
denounced as their victims.

   Far different were the principles adopted by Mr. Raf

fles. It was the chief feature in his policy to secure to

the inhabitants, whether Hindus or Mahomedans, the
possession of their own laws, and a trial conformable to
the practice of their own courts ; the experiment was suc

cessful. A native jury, consisting of an intelligent fore

man and four others, decided upon the facts ; the law was
then taken down as expounded by the native law-officers,
and the sentence, with the opinion of the judge of circuit,
upon the application of the Dutch and colonial law on the
cases, was forwarded for the modification or confirmation
of the Lieutenant-Governor.

   Enough has been said, it is hoped, to convey some idea
of the extent of that change, which the enlarged policy
of its Governor introduced into the island of Java ; and
this portion of his life may be closed with a few observa

246 EFFECTS OF THE ENGLISH SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.

tions of his own upon the effects which the change had
produced, and was in the act of producing.

  " If I look forward," observes Mr. Raffles, " to the

effects of the change of system as it may contribute to the
happiness of the people, the improvement of the country,
and the consequent increase of the public revenue, the
result is incalculable. Let the present wretched state of
the Dutch metropolis of the East be contrasted with the
flourishing state of the British establishments, wherever
they have been formed, and it will speak a volume in
favour of the change. Desolation and ruin would seem
to have tracked the steps of the Dutch power wherever it
has extended ; individual prosperity and national riches
have accumulated under the English. The principles of
government are radically different, and with such expe
rience before us, can it be a question on which side we
shall rely ?

   " The mass of the population, snatched as they are, at
a favourable moment, from the destructive grasp of Ma-

homedan despotism and indefinite exaction, and estab
lished in the possession of property, to be secured by
impartial justice, administered to them in a simple and
prompt mode, adapted to their peculiar sentiments and
institutions, afford a wide scope to the philosopher as well

the statesman. A new people, still advancing in civiliza

tion even under the former restraints, with what accele
rated progress will they not proceed, when their natural

energies have fair play ? It was but a few months ago

LETTER TO LORD MINTO.  247

when the lower class of Javanese were apparently lost to
every idea of their own advantage, governed by apathy,
and almost insensible to the value of property ; so strongly
prejudiced in favour of their Chiefs, so simple and so
unenlightened, that the least breath of disaffection could
blow up the flames of rebellion. Mere machines in the
hands of designing artifice, they could be rendered sub
servient to promote the views of ambition, or the frenzy
of religious fanaticism. They looked not up to the supe
rior power, but to the intermediate authority : they knew
little of the European character, and Europeans were still
less acquainted with their habits and customs. The
former government had seldom consulted the advance
ment of their interests, and the result was what might

have been anticipated.

  I" On the part of the Javanese am justified in assert

ing, that they feel the present interference in favour of
the cultivators of the soil, as a revival of that due con
sideration of the interests of this important class of the
community, which has not existed since the days of Majo-

Ipahit ; and have the satisfaction to believe, that nothing

will be found to have been done, or to be in progress, but
what will be useful, and a necessary preliminary to any
more permanent or approved system which may be ordered,
and which may have for its object justice for individuals,
the improvement of mankind, and the prosperity of the
government, founded on the mutual advantages of the

people."

 248 LETTER TO LORD MINTO.

   " I have said so much on the effects of the change, and

Ithey are so obvious on general principles, that should

 but intrude on your time by enlarging upon them here.

 I cannot but look upon the accomplishment of this under

 taking as the most conspicuous and important under my

Iadministration ; and in its success or otherwise am wil
ling to stand or fall. I need not tell your Lordship, that
while it was in agitation I had many an uneasy hour, and
I suffered no small share of mental anxiety and bodily

fatigue while it was in progress : but now that it has been

happily accomplished I am amply repaid for all. It was

my lot personally to superintend the settlement in every
district ; the necessity of that personal superintendence

obliged me to leave Batavia at three several times, and

during the last to be absent for three months from the

capital ; but my immediate presence in the different parts
of the island could alone have concluded the settlement in

so short a period, and it has had the advantage of ren

Idering me intimately acquainted with every thing.

have been able to judge for myself throughout, and al

Ithough have not failed to avail myself of all the talent
I I Iand experience could find, may safely say that have

in no case decided without a conviction brought home to

my own mind that I was right.

. " The arrangements for the interior of the country

being completed, my next object will be to simplify and
modify the unwieldy establishments of the towns, particu

larly those in Batavia.

           LETTER TO LORD MINTO.  249

  I" have gone on as long as it was possible from day to
Iday in the expectation of a change of government, but

shall not feel myself satisfied in longer delaying those

radical reforms, so essential for the health and character

of our government. Much odium has already attached

from the continuance of the Dutch institutions so long,

Iand owe it to my own character, and to your Lordship,

to render my administration ' not only without fear, but

without reproach.'

   I" consider them as now fairly before an impartial
judge. I shall, unless otherwise directed by a superior
Iauthority, continue to be guided by the principles which

have laid down, and which have appeared to me, after the

most deliberate consideration, to be just and right.

  I" am happy to inform your Lordship that Banca

thrives well under the administration of Captain A'Court.

A report upon the island by Dr. Horsfield will be sent to

the Court of Directors by this opportunity, accompanied

by specimens of the mineralogy of the island.
   " The intercourse with Japan has been opened, and we

have received a very advantageous return in copper and

Icamphor.  look forward to the possibility of establishing

Ia permanent British interest in that quarter ; but will

reserve this subject for another letter.

                                  " I am, &c. &c.

                                                       " T. S. R."

250 LETTER TO SIR HUGH INGLIS.

*****EXTRACT OF A PRIVATE LETTER FROM MR. RAFFLES TO THE
LATE SIR HUGH INGLIS.

                                " Feb. 13, 1814.

   " Whatever may be the eventual fate of Java, whether
it is decided that the colony be attached to the Company's

possessions, or even given up at a peace to a foreign

power (which God forbid), the inhabitants of Java will

have the happiness to bless the day which placed them
under such a system of government.

  I" trust that the subject will receive an indulgent con

Isideratien ; and that may be honoured with the Court's

instructions for my future guidance.

   " In every reference which has latterly been made to

the Supreme Government, a hesitation in forming an
opinion for the guidance of this government has been

evinced, arising from the uncertain and provisional tenure

of the government as it now stands ; and it is possible
that the same hesitation may still exist with regard to the

two great questions now submitted, and it is on this

Iaccount particularly that am induced to seek early

instructions from Europe.

   I" have been forced to act, in every measure of im

portance, on my own responsibility, not from the superior
 authorities being ignorant of the real interests of the
 colony, but from a hesitation, on their part, to involve

 themselves with the government which might be finally

 fixed.

TRANSFER OF JAVA TO THE DUTCH.  251

  I" have invariably invited and courted the commands
Iof the superior authorities on questions which considered

of moment ; and necessity alone, and the conviction that
the favourable moment for action might otherwise be lost,
has induced me to act expressly from my own judgment.
Those only who have been in similar cases, can feel the
weight of responsibility which attaches."

   Mr. Raffles was anxious to diffuse the blessings of free
dom throughout the whole of the varied populations under
his charge; and, as the British Parliament had at this
time passed an act, which declared the slave-trade to be
felony, he established it as a colonial law : and it continues
in force to this day, since it cannot be repealed without
express authority from the mother-country.

   The leading inhabitants possessing slaves, concurred
with him in his efforts to abolish this dreadful evil through
out the Dutch possessions, the whole of the slaves in the
Island were registered, according to the forms of the
West India Islands, --with the view of giving them their
liberty. The Bengal authorities, however, refused their
sanction, because, as they alleged, it had not been deter
mined whether the government of Java was to be perma
nently administered by the King, or by the Company.

   Soon after this determination was received, the face of
public affairs entirely changed in Europe; the Dutch
colonies were to be restored without reserve, or condition
in favour of this unfortunate class of beings. As a last
struggle in their behalf, Mr. Raffles effected the esta

252  TRANSFER OF JAVA TO THE DUTCH.

blishment of a society termed the " Java Benevolent

Society," in the hope of interesting in this effort those

who succeeded him.

   In a letter to Lord Minto, dated July 2, 1814, Mr.

Raffles, referring to the transfer of the Island to the

IfDutch, says, " I were to believe that the Javanese were

ever again to be ruled on the former principles of govern

Iment, should, indeed, quit Java with a heavy heart ; but
Ia brighter prospect is, hope, before them. Holland is not
only re-established, but I hope renovated ; her Prince has
Ibeen educated in the best of all schools --adversity ; and
will hope the people of Java will be as happy, if not
happier, under the Dutch than under the English. I

say happier, because Java will, in importance, be more to

Holland than she could ever be to England ; and the at

tention bestowed by the one country must naturally be

greater than that likely to be afforded by the other.
   " Mr. Muntinge has often reminded me that, when con

versing with your Lordship on the judicial regulations,

you observed, it was not certain whether England would

retain permanent possession in Java ; but in the mean time
let us do as much good as we can. This we have done,

and whatever change may take place, the recollection can

never be unpleasing."

   Mr. Raffles had long considered an intercourse with

Japan an object of great importance to the English nation.
The peculiarity of the China trade--the monopoly of the
tea --and the uncertainty with which it was attended, made

TRADE WITH JAPAN.  253

him desirous of opening the trade with Japan to the Bri
tish merchant. To establish a British Factory in Japan,
and furnish a population of not less than twenty-five

millions with the staple commodities, and with the manu
factures of Great Britain, was in itself a great national
object ; but it was of more particular consideration from
its relative importance to China, and the apparent facility
of eventually superseding the commerce which exists be
tween that country and Japan.

   From the year 1611, when the Dutch established com
mercial relations with Japan, till 1671, (a period of sixty
years,) their speculations were unrestricted, and their
profits enormous. This they call their golden age of
trade ; they opened a mine of wealth, and they thought it
inexhaustible, as well as easily wrought. In 1640, the
Company obtained a return in gold which yielded a profit
of upwards of a million of guilders. For some time pre
vious to 1663, they procured a return of silver to the ex
tent of two hundred chests, of one hundred pounds each,
and it was suggested that it would be desirable for as
many chests of gold of the same weight to be sent in
future. These gold and silver ages of Japan commerce
passed away, and in the latter part of the seventeenth
century commenced what the Dutch called its brazen age,
that is, its export in copper, which has ever since continued
the staple of the Japan market. Mr. Raffles resolved,
therefore, to send a mission for the purpose of transferring
to the British government the trade exclusively enjoyed

254              MISSION TO JAPAN.

by the Dutch (but which even with them was confined to
two annual ships from the port of Batavia, and this had
ceased four years), and for opening to the manufacturers
of Great Britain the supply of that extensive empire, in

exchange for the valuable commodities that might be re
ceived in return.

   The limited extent of the trade latterly carried on by the
Dutch was owing, in no trifling degree, to the conduct of

their officers, in sacrificing the public interest to a regard

for their own private emolument, which was effectually

consulted by narrowing the trade : as on that contracted

footing, their means of advantage bore a greater proportion
to the whole extent, and the smaller number of officers

required in conducting
       a                afforded them every advantage
                            it,
of concealment.
                                                                                            ;
At such distance from control, and himself the channel

of communication to his superiors, the Dutch Resident, in
common with the other public officers of the Dutch govern

ment, receiving but a very limited salary, was left to his
own discretion to improve the advantage, of whatever
nature, his place could be made to yield him, a situation

little calculated to command or obtain respect and the
spectacle of the representative of his nation, scrambling for
every petty advantage, degraded the character of his
countrymen in the eyes of the Japanese, endowed as they
are with no common share of intelligence and discern

ment.

                CHAPTER VIII.

Domestic afflictions -- Tour of the Island for the benefit of his health
   -- Native companions --Malay character -- Origin of their race--
    Their literature -- Civilization -- The Moluccas -- Celebes -- Expe
   dition to Bali and Macasar -- People of Bali -- Casts --Funeral
   ceremonies -- Wives burning --Account of eruption of Tomboro
   mountain --Prospects of the Restoration of Java to the Dutch --
   Letter to Lord Buckingham on advantages of retaining it-- Value
   of the Moluccas -- Banca-- Character of the East insular tribes --
   New government proposed for Java --Merits of the individuals
   employed --His own labours -- Javanese language-- Ancient sculp
   ture and remains --Intention to write the History of Java --Review
   of his administration in Java -- Close of it.

At this period (1815) it pleased God to deprive Mr. Raffles

of some of his nearest and dearest connexions *, as well
as of many of his earliest and most intimate friends ; and
whilst he was mourning the death of these, he heard, to use
his own words, " that Lord Minto was snatched away from
the embraces of his friends and family, at the very moment
he was to receive the only reward which in this world
could recompense his past labours --a calm and placid
recollection of the successful career he had run." To an

ardent enthusiastic mind, warmly alive to the brightest

  * Death of Mrs. Raffles. Mr. Raffles married, in the year NM,

the widow of W. Fancourt, Esq., of Lanark, North Britain.

256  NATIVE COMPANIONS.

feelings of friendship, and delighting in all the closer ties
of domestic life, such a rapid succession of melancholy
events, added to the anxiety and uncertainty of public
duty, was most trying ; and even Mr. Raffles' buoyant
spirit yielded to the pressure. For a long time it was
feared that his life would fall a sacrifice to the keenness of
his feelings. The moment he was able to attend to any
business, he was recommended to make an excursion over
the Island, in the hope that change of scene would dis
pel the weight of grief with which he seemed to be

overwhelmed.

   During this tour he found employment for his active
mind in visiting all the remains of antiquity in the country
and collecting information connected with its early history,
with which Europeans were previously unacquainted.
These materials were at a future period published in his
History of Java.

   But though his mind was thus occupied, his health

derived no material advantage from the journey. It was

thought advisable that he should leave Buitenzorg, and

remove to Cicero, a more elevated situation. He took
with him several of his staff, and a party of natives,

whose good sense and intelligence had attracted his notice,
and whom he had brought with him from the eastern part
of the Island.

   With these last he passed the greater part of every
morning and evening in reading and translating, with the

greatest rapidity and ease, the different legends with

         MALAY CHARACTER.                     257

which they furnished him, particularly the Brata Yudha.
His translation of this singular and curious poem will be

found in his History of Java. It was a work requiring

considerable labour and time ; but it was a common re

mark with him, that if a man were fully and seriously

determined on accomplishing any undertaking within
human power at all, he would succeed by diligence and

attention. At this time he rose early, and commenced

business before breakfast ; immediately after this he went
through the official duties of the day ; after which he

devoted the remainder of the morning, till dinner-time, to
the natives who were living with him. He dined at four
o'clock, and took a walk for the sake of his health in the

evening ; and, until he retired to rest, he was occupied in
reading, translating, and compiling. But his strength
and health did not return, perhaps from his not being
able to amuse his mind without over-exertion and too

much application.

   The following are extracts of letters which he wrote at
this period :--

         TO MR. MARSDEN FROM MR. RAFFLES.

" My dear Sir,  *          "January 1st, 1815.
                           **
        **

" The Malays are a people by no means far advanced

in civilization; nor in their traditions, regarding their

origin, do they trace back to a far distant date. In

common with other nations in a similar state of civiliza-

vol. i.                                    s

258 MALAY CHARACTER.

tion, their ideas may not be very numerous, nor their
abstract notions very correct; but their meaning and
their attention to passing events are remarkable. Their
generally wandering and predatory life induces them to

follow the fortune of a favourite Chief, and to form them

selves into a variety of separate clans. They may not be
inaptly compared, as far as their habits and notions go, to
some of the borderers in North Britain, not many cen
turies ago. The traditions regarding their early history
are far less blended with the marvellous than the mighty

feats of Fingal ; and if in their attempts to account for

their origin, we find a mixture of mythological fable, this
surely is not of itself sufficient to invalidate what may
otherwise be considered as matter of fact.

   " In relating any event which has recently passed, a

Malay is always peculiarly simple and clear. The follow
ing character of a Malay, as a man, will be found tolerably
correct :--

   " ' The Malay, living in a country where nature grants

(almost without labour) all his wants, is so indolent, that
when he has rice, nothing will induce him to work. Ac
customed to wear arms from his infancy, to rely on his
own prowess for safety, and to dread that of his asso
ciates, he is the most correctly polite of all savages, and
not subject to those starts of passion so common to more
civilized nations. But with all his forbearance, he is
feelingly alive to insult ; submits with a bad grace to the
forms to which, in a civilized life, he finds himself obliged

MALAY CHARACTER.  259

to conform ; and when these are either numerous or en
forced with supercilious contumely, or the delays of office,
he flies to the woods, where, with a little rice boiled in a

bamboo, eaten with sprouts of the surrounding trees as a

leaf, he feels he is free.

   " ' Example will gradually generate wants ; and wants,
industry, and a sense of safety supersede the use of arms,

and generate other manners.
    " ' That strong predilection which has been observed in

the natives of the Malay peninsula and surrounding coun
tries, for the English, will soon cease on their more inti
mate connexion, if treated with the contumely common in
India. This results from the independent spirit of the
people, who value that independence beyond any con

sideration of advantage, if accompanied with what they

deem insult.

   " ' The consequence of such behaviour is first felt by
individuals, who interest their families, a number of fami

lies interest a clan, a number of clans a nation, and in

their revenges they await with patience for years, when
they seldom fail to retaliate, and that often on the in

nocent.

   '"Asa scholar, it is allowed that the onlyknowledge of

which he is inclined to boast is derived from the Arabs.
That their literary compositions should bear the stamp of
 Mahomedan direction will, therefore, not be surprising ;
but it will be observed, that in poetry, and in every essay
from the heart, allusion is only made to natural objects,

                                                              s2

2m MALAY CHARACTER.

and the earlier fables of Hindu mythology ; while in his
torical and dry compositions of the head, these more

natural feelings usually give way to Mahomedan notions.
This distinction is easily discernible by any person in the

least acquainted with Malayan literature, for literature I

must call it.

   " ' To prove that the traditions and historical notices of
the Malays are not altogether devoid of interest, would
require little more than the publication of a fair trans
lation of some of their more popular performances. I
hope, at no very distant date, some of these may appear.

    " ' The Indian islands appear to have been very fertile
in alphabets ; they are all, with the exception of the cha

racters now used by the Malays, of Hindu origin. It was

long the idea that Sumatra was the Tapro Bana of the

ancients.

   " ' The general opinion entertained regarding the origin
of the different native establishments in the Indian Ar

chipelago, and which is supported by tradition and native
history, and by the traces of character, language, and
habits discernible among the different nations at the
present day, is, that the Indian islands were first peopled
from the continent of Asia; and the country lying be

tween the Gulf of Siam and China was, in all probability,

the main-land from whence the first settlers emigrated.
    " ' This probability is supported by the contiguity of

this part of the continent to the Islands ; its extensive
population ; the intimate connexion which appears in the

ORIGIN OF THE MALAY NATIONS.  261

earliest time to have existed between the principal states
of the Archipelago and the countries of Siam, Laos, and

Champa ; the similarity which still exists in many of the
customs and usages, and in the language of the less civi
lized tribes in the Eastern Seas.

   " ' At what period this emigration first tookp lace, is at

present beyond rational conjecture ; but a more intimate
acquaintance with the Eastern Peninsula of India may
hereafter throw some light upon the subject.

  If" ' the original inhabitants are thus admitted to have

issued from this part of the Continent, it will be no diffi

cult matter to account for the resemblance of the Malay
to the Tartar, and the similarity which is found to exist
in all the genuine languages of the Islands.

   " ' The next point is to trace from whence those rude
and savage tribes received their first rudiments of civiliza

tion ; whether from Egypt or the colonies established by
that power, or at a subsequent period from an Indian
country, may be a matter of doubt, but that they were
early visited by traders from the west of India seems esta

blished on incontrovertible evidence.
   " ' The Javanese annals do not trace the first coming of

the people from Western India much beyond a thousand
years back, but tradition justifies us in believing, that,
long before Java was civilized, the inhabitants of the more
Eastern Islands, and particularly the Moluccas, had con
siderably emerged from a state of barbarism. This tra
dition is strongly confirmed by the probability that the

262  ORIGIN OF THE MALAY NATIONS.

rich productions of the Spice Islands would have been the
first to excite the cupidity of Indian traders, in the same
manner as they were subsequently the first to attract the
attention of European speculators ; and by the circum
stance of the acknowledged antiquity and superiority,
even at this day, of the language spoken in the Moluccas.

   " ' It is an extraordinary fact, that while the question

regarding the country from whence the Malayan tribes
first issued should be confined almost exclusively to
Sumatra and the Peninsula of Malacca, the highest Malay
is admitted to be spoken in the Moluccas; in proof of
this fact, it is only necessary to refer to the Malayan
version of the Scriptures, printed by the Dutch govern
ment, which is universally allowed to be composed in the
best language, and in the language of the Moluccas, but
to be scarcely intelligible to ordinary readers belonging to
the more Western Isles.

    " ' When the intercourse between Western India and
the Eastern Islands declined, or when it was first replaced
by the traders from Arabia, we are not correctly informed.

    " ' In Java the Indians would appear to have established
their principal colony : but traces of their communications

with the other islands may be easily found, particularly in
 Sumatra, and in the Celebes, where the written characters

now in use bear the evident stamp of Sanscrit origin.
From this intimate connexion between Western India
 and all the islands of the Archipelago, we may easily
account for the extensive introduction of Sanscrit terms

ORIGIN OF THE MALAYAN NAME.  263

 into the languages of the Islanders, and to the establish
 ment of the earliest independent states of which tradition

 makes mention.

    "' Thus the sovereignties of the Moluccas, of Celebes, of

 Java, and of Sumatra, may have been first established,
 while colonies from these, in process of time, extended
 the habits of civilization to the coasts of Borneo, the ad

jacent islands, and the Peninsula of Malacca.
    " ' Before the Eastern Seas were visited by European

 navigators, the Moluccas had fallen under the sway of the
 Chieftains of Celebes, and the people had lost much of
 that importance of character for which in earlier times

they had been distinguished. Yet there is reason to
believe that many of the petty states in the Eastern part
of the Archipelago and in the South Seas were first planted

by colonies from the Moluccas.
    " ' But it was principally from the Island of Celebes at a

subsequent period that colonies were thrown out: these

peculiar and enterprising people appear to have extended
their influence at one period, so as to have included
within the range of their authority the Philippines on one
side, and the countries in the Straits of Malacca on the

other. Acheen and the Peninsula of Malacca were early
visited by adventurers from Celebes ; and it was in one
of these distant expeditions that the people of Celebes
are said to have established the kingdom of Menangkabu
in Sumatra, and to have given the designation of Malaya

to the people now so called.

264  MALAYAN LANGUAGES.

   " ' The people of Celebes have a tradition that when
their celebrated Chief, Sawira Geding, was exploring the
Western countries, he put into one of the rivers in Suma
tra, where a considerable part of his followers deserted
him, and running into the interior, connected themselves
with the people of the country, and established the king
dom of Menangkabu. These people were, for the most
part, of the lowest class, employed by Sawira Geding in
cutting fire-wood and procuring water for his fleet, and
are represented by him to have been captives from the
Moluccas, or savages from the interior of Celebes, and
have the term Malay, from Mala, to bring, and aya,
wood : Malaya, a wood-bringer, or as we should say a
wood-cutter, and to this day the people of Celebes look
down with the greatest contempt on a Malaya, and are in
the habit of repeating the origin of the name.

   " ' The people of Celebes have from time immemorial
been distinguished among the Eastern nations for their
spirit in commerce, in maritime enterprise, at a period
when the more peaceable inhabitants of Java were dili
gently cultivating the soil, and confining their views to
domestic concerns. This enterprising people will be
found to have established themselves in almost every
other part of the Archipelago.

    " ' The tradition above noticed, regarding the origin of
the Malays, is supported by the very great similarity of
language, of features, of character, of dress, and of habits,

as observable at the present day  the Malay resembles

MALAYAN LANGUAGES.  265

the inhabitant of Celebes very closely, both in his features,
and form, in his moral character, his dress, and his occu
pations ; but in every thing he is his inferior --a lower
caste of the same character and people.

   " ' It was probably during this period, that the Malay

countries first imbibed that portion of Javanese literature

which is to be found in their books ; but the principal ac

cession which the Malay and other languages derived from
the Sanscrit, was in all probability received direct at a
much earlier date ; and this supposition will account for

the Sanscrit words which are used by the Malays being
in some instances much purer than those forming part of
the Javanese language.

    " ' The higher language of Java is almost entirely Sans
 crit ; but the termination of the words would appear in
many instances to have assumed an arbitrary form. In

 the Malayan language, the Sanscrit words are not subject
 to this arbitrary or peculiar form, and when words of this
 description, of which there are many, are engrafted on the
Malayan, the Malays invariable term them B'husa Java,

 or the Javanese language.

    " ' At the period when the influence of Java was thus

 extending itself over the Archipelago, it was arrested in
 its progress by the rapid establishment of the religion of
 Mahomet, and Java itself had scarcely recovered from the
 shock of conversion to this faith, when the Europeans
 found their way round the Cape of Good Hope.

    " ' To bring forward all the evidence that could be ad

266  EXPEDITION TO BALI AND MACASAR.

duced in support of the above general conclusions would
swell this,' &c, &c. * * * * * *

   " I have lately sent an expedition under General Night-

ingall, to Bali and Macasar; the information obtained
from Bali is briefly as follows :--The natives are divided
into four castes, Bramana, Satriga, Wisya, and Sudra.

    " The Bramanas are of two classes Bramana Sava, and

Bramana Budu ; the former prevails. The Budus eat of
all food, even dogs, and it is said by the Bramanas (their
enemies) that they eat rice off a corpse which has been kept
several months. The Bramanas do not perform public

religious offices, the Sudras have charge of the temples ;
there are rude images among them ; and in these temples
they worship chiefly tutelar deities of places ; a Bramana
is respected according to his age and learning, he cannot
eat from the hands of a younger. The Bramana does not
worship idols. They say the four castes issued from the
mouth, breast, belly, and feet of Brahma.

   " The Rajahs are Sadrayas or Wisayu ; after death the

corpse is kept a long time, by the higher classes above a
year, by the lower at least two months ; the dead bodies
are preserved by daily fumigation with benzoin, &c. ; they
are then burned, except children who have not shed their
teeth, and persons dying of small-pox, who are buried im
mediately. The widow of the Sadraya and Wisayu classes
generally burns herself with her husband's corpse : this,

however, is voluntary, and not the wives only, but comm

bines, and female slaves also, sacrificing themselves on

ERUPTION OF THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  267

such occasions. The father of the present Rajah of Balib-

ing was burned with seventy-four women. It is customary

with some classes to throw the dead bodies into the sea."
   Mr. Raffles gives the following account of the eruption

from the Tomboro Mountain, in the Island of Sambawa,

which took place at this time (the 11th and 12th of April,
1815), one of the most violent and extraordinary of such

explosions yet known.

   " To preserve an authentic account of the violent and
extraordinary eruption of the Tomboro Mountain on Sam

bawa, in April last, I required from the several Residents

of districts on this Island a statement of the circumstances

that occurred within their knowledge ; and from their re

plies the following narrative is collected. It is, perhaps,

incomplete until some further accounts are received of the
immediate effects upon the mountain itself ; but the pro
gress is sufficiently known to render interesting a present
account of the phenomenon, which exceeds any one of a
similar description on record. The first explosions were
heard on this Island in the evening of the 5th of April,
they were noticed in every quarter, and continued at
intervals until the following day. The noise was, in the
first instance, almost universally attributed to distant
cannon ; so much so, that a detachment of troops were
marched from Djocjocarta, in the expectation that a neigh
bouring post was attacked, and along the coast boats
were in two instances dispatched in quest of a supposed
ship in distress.

268  KRUPTION OF THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

    " On the following morning, however, a slight fall of
ashes removed all doubt as to the cause of the sound ; and
it is worthy of remark, that as the eruption continued, the
sound appeared to be so close, that in each district it
seemed near at hand ; it was attributed to an eruption
from the Marapi, the Gunung Kloot or the Gunung
Bromo.

    " From the 6th, the sun became obscured ; and it had

every appearance of being enveloped in fog : the wea
ther was sultry, and the atmosphere close and still : the
sun seemed shorn of its rays, and the general stillness and
pressure of the atmosphere foreboded an earthquake.
This lasted several days, the explosions continued occa
sionally, but less violent, and less frequently than at first.
Volcanic ashes also began to fall, but in small quantities ;
and so slightly as to be hardly perceptible in the western
districts.

   " This appearance of the atmosphere remained with little
variation, until the 10th of April, and till then it does not
appear that the volcano attracted much observation, or was
considered of greater importance than those which have oc
casionally burst forth in Java. But on the evening of the
10th the eruptions were heard more loud, and more fre
quent from Cheribon eastward ; the air became darkened
by the quantity of falling ashes, and in several situations,
particularly at Solo and Rembang, many said that they

felt a tremulous motion of the earth. It is universally re

marked in the more eastern districts, that the explosions

ERUPTION OF THE TOMRORO MOUNTAIN.  2G9

were tremendous, continuing frequently during the 11th,
and of such violence as to shake the houses perceptibly ;
an unusual thick darkness was remarked all the following

night, and the greater part of the next day. At Solo, on

the 12th, at four p. M., objects were not visible at 300

yards distance. At Gresie, and other districts more east

ward, it was dark as night the greater part of the 12th of
April, and this saturated state of the atmosphere lessened
as the cloud of ashes passed along and discharged itself
on its way. Thus the ashes, which were eight inches deep
at Banyuwangi, were but two in depth at Sumanap, and
still less in Gresie ; and the sun does not seem to have
been actually obscured in any district westward of Sama-

rang.

   " No description of mine, however, can so well express

what happened, as the extracts from the reports at several
places ; the remarks there made are applicable also to all
the other districts, only in a lesser degree, as the same
became more distant from the cause of the phenomena.

                    EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM GRESIE.

  I" ' woke on the morning of the 12th, after what seemed

to be a very long night, and taking my watch to the

Ilamp, found it to be half-past eight o'clock; imme

diately went out, and found a cloud of ashes descending ;
at nine o'clock no day-light ; the layer of ashes on the
terrace before my door at the Kradenan measures one
line in thickness ; ten a. m. a faint glimmering of light can

270  ERUPTION OF THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

now be perceived over-head; half-past ten, can distin

guish objects fifty yards distant; eleven, a. m. breakfasted
by candle-light, the birds began to chirrup as at the ap
proach of day ; half-past eleven, can discover the situation
of the sun through a thick cloud of ashes ; one, p. m. found
the layer of ashes one line and a half thick, and measured
in several places with the same results; three, p.m. the
ashes have increased one-eighth of a line more ; five, p. m.

Iit is now lighter, but still can neither read nor write

without candle. In travelling through the district on the
13th, the appearances were described with very little vari

ation from my account ; and I am universally told that no

one remembers, nor does their tradition record, so tre

mendous an eruption. Some look upon it as typical of a
change, of the re-establishment of the former government ;
others account for it in an easy way, by reference to the
superstitious notions of their legendary tales, and say that
the celebrated Nyai Loroh Kidul has been marrying one
of her children, on which occasion she has been firing

salutes from her supernatural artillery. They call the
ashes the dregs of her ammunition.'

                  EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM SUMANAP.

   " ' On the evening of the 10th the explosions became
very loud; one in particular shook the town, and they
were excessively quick, resembling a heavy cannonade.
Towards evening, next day, the atmosphere thickened so
much, that by four o'clock it was necessary to light

ERUPTION OF THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  271

candles. At about seven, p. m., of the 11th, the tide

being about ebb, a rush of water from the bay occasioned
the river to rise four feet, and it subsided again in about
four minutes ; the bay was much agitated about this time,
and was illuminated from a northerly direction. On the
island of Sahotie, fire was seen distinctly at a short dis
tance to the south-east. The uncommon darkness of
this night did not break till ten and eleven, a. m., of the
12th, and it could hardly be called day-light all day.
Volcanic ashes fell in abundance, and covered the earth
about two inches thick, the trees also were loaded with

them.'

               EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM BANYUWANGI.

  " 'At ten, p.m. of the 1st of April, we heard a noise

resembling a cannonade, which lasted, at intervals, till
nine o'clock next day ; it continued at times loud, at others
resembling distant thunder ; but on the night of the 10th,

the explosions became truly tremendous, frequently shak
ing the earth and sea violently. Towards morning they

again slackened, and continued to lessen gradually till the
14th, when they ceased altogether. On the morning of
the 3rd of April, ashes began to fall like fine snow ; and
in the course of the day they were half-an-inch deep on
the ground. From that time till the 11th the air was

constantly impregnated with them to such a degree,
that it was unpleasant to stir out of doors. On the
morning of the 11th, the opposite shore of Bali was

272  ERUPTION OF THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

  completely obscured in a dense cloud, which gradually ap
 proached the Java shore, and was dreary and terrific. By

 one, p. M., candles were necessary ; by four, p. w, it was
 pitch-dark ; and so it continued until two o'clock of the
 afternoon of the 12th, ashes continuing to fall abundantly :
 they were eight inches in depth at this time. After two
 o'clock it began to clear up ; but the sun was not visible
 till the 14th, and during this time it was extremely cold.
 The ashes continued to fall, but less violently, and the
 greatest depth, on the 15th of April, was nine inches.

    " ' All reports concur in stating, that so violent and ex

 tensive an eruption has not happened within the memory
of the oldest inhabitants, nor within tradition. They speak
of similar effects in a lesser degree, when an eruption took
place from the volcano of Carang Assum, in Bali, about
seven years ago; and it was at first supposed that this
mountain was the seat of eruption in the present instance.
The Balinese attributed the event to a recent dispute be
tween the two Rajahs of Baliling, which terminated in the
death of the younger Rajah, by order of his brother.

   " ' The haziness and heat of the atmosphere, and occa

sional fall of volcanic ashes, continued until the 14th, or,

in some parts of the island, until the 17th of April : they
were cleared away universally by a heavy fall of rain after

which the atmosphere became clear and more cool ; and it

would seem that this seasonable relief prevented much
injury to the crops, and removed an appearance of epi
demic disease, which was beginning to prevail. This was

         ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  273

especially the case at Batavia, where, for the two or three

days preceding the rain, many persons were attacked with
fever. As it was, however, no material injury was felt

beyond the districts of Banyuwangi. The cultivators

every where took the precaution to shake off the ashes

from the growing paddy as they fell, and the timely rain

removed an apprehension very generally entertained, that

insects would have been generated by the long continuance
of the ashes at the root of the plant. At Rembang, where
the rain did not fall till the 17th, and the ashes had been

considerable, the crops were somewhat injured. In Gresie

the injury was less ; but in Banyuwangi and the adjacent

part of the island, on which the cloud of ashes spent its

force, the injury was more extensive : 126 horses and
eighty-six head of cattle also perished, chiefly from want

of forage, during a month from the time of the eruption.
   " ' The local effects of this eruption have been ascer

tained by Lieutenant Owen Phillips, who proceeded to

Sumbawa for this purpose, and was charged to distribute

to the sufferers a supply of rice, dispatched by this govern

ment on hearing of the extreme distress to which the inha

bitants of Sumbawa had been reduced.
   " ' The Noquedah of a Malay prow from Timor had re

ported that on the 11th of April, while at sea, far distant

from Sumbawa, he was in utter darkness ; that on his

passing the Tomboro Mountain at a distance of five miles,

the lower part of it was in flames, and the upper part

covered with clouds : he went on shore for water, and

vol. I.  T

274  ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

 found the ground covered with ashes to the depth of three
 feet, several large prows thrown on the land by a concus
 sion of the sea, and many of the inhabitants dead from
 famine. On leaving Sumbawa, he experienced a strong
current to the westward, and fell in with great quantities
of cinders floating on the sea, through which he with diffi
 culty forced his way: he was surrounded by them the
whole of the night of the 12th, and says they formed a
mass of two feet thick, and several miles in extent. This
person states that the volcano of Carang Assam in Bali
was in commotion at the same time ; and it appears from

the several reports, that a greater rumbling than usual
was heard in the mountains in the Rembang district, as
well as in the Gunning Gede in the Preanger Regencies ;
but after a strict inquiry, it does not appear that any
simultaneous movement or connexion could be traced on

this occasion along the chain of volcanic mountains
running east and west in Java.'

    " The Honourable Company's cruizer, Benares, was at
this time at Macasar, and the following official report,
received from the Commander of this vessel, confirms the

circumstances already related.

   " ' On the 5th of April, a firing of cannon was heard at

Macasar, continuing at intervals all the afternoon, and

apparently coming from the southward :--towards sun

set the reports seemed to have approached much nearer,
and sounded like heavy guns, with occasional slight
reports between. Supposing it to be occasioned by

ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  275

pirates, a detachment of troops was embarked on board
the Honorable Company's cruizer Benares, and sent in
search of them, but after examining the neighbouring
 Islands, returned to Macasar on the 8th, without having
found any cause of the alarm. During the night of the
11th, the firing was again heard, but much lower, and
towards morning the reports were in quick succession,
sometimes like three or four guns fired together, and so
heavy that they shook the ship, as they did also the
houses in Fort Rotterdam. Some of them seemed so

Inear, that sent people to the mast-head to look out for

the flashes, and weighed at day-dawn, proceeding to the
southward to ascertain the cause. The morning of the
12th was extremely dark and lowering, particularly to the
southward, and S.W., the wind light, and from the east

ward. At eight a.m. it was apparent that some extraor

dinary occurrence had taken place ; the face of the
heavens to the southward and westward had assumed

a dark aspect, and it was much darker than before the sun
rose ; as it came nearer it assumed a dusky red appear
ance, and spread fast over every part of the heavens ; by
ten it was so dark that a ship could hardly be seen a mile
distant; by eleven the whole of the heavens were ob
scured, except a small space near the horizon to the east
ward, the quarter from which the wind came. The ashes
now began to fall in showers, and the appearance was

altogether truly awful and alarming. By noon the light
that had remained in the eastern part of the horizon dis-

                                                t2

276  ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

appeared, and complete darkness covered the face of day.
This continued so profound during the remainder of the

Iday, that never saw any thing to equal it in the darkest

night ; it was impossible to see your hand when held up
close to your eyes. The ashes fell without intermission
throughout the night, and were so light and subtile, that
notwithstanding the precaution of spreading awnings fore
and aft as much as possible, they pervaded every part of

the ship.

   " ' At six o'clock the next morning it continued as dark

as ever, but began to clear about half-past seven ; and

about eight o'clock objects could be faintly discerned
upon deck. From this time it began to get lighter very

fast.

   " ' The appearance of the ship when day-light returned

was most singular ; every part being covered with the
falling matter : it had the appearance of calcined pumice-
stone, nearly the colour of wood-ashes ; it lay in heaps of
a foot in depth in many parts of the deck, and several
tons weight of it must have been thrown overboard ; for

though an impalpable powder or dust when it fell, it was,
when compressed, of considerable weight ; a pint measure
of it weighed twelve ounces and three-quarters: it was

perfectly tasteless, and did not affect the eyes with pain
ful sensation, had a faint burnt smell, but nothing like
sulphur : when mixed with water it formed a tenacious

mud difficult to be washed off.
   " ' By noon of the 12th, the sun made his appearance

   ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.                             277

again, but very faintly, through the dusky atmosphere ;

the air being still charged with ashes, which continued to

fall lightly all day.
   " ' From the 12th to the 15th the atmosphere remained

thick and dusky, the rays of the sun scarce able to pene

'

                 it,
trate through with little or no wind the whole time.
   " On the morning of the 13th left Macasar, and on

the 18th made Sambawa. On approaching the coast,

passed through great quantities of pumice-stone floating

on the sea, which had at first strongly the appearance of

shoals, so much so that sent boat to examine one,
                      I

                                      a

                                       I
which, at the distance of less than a mile, took for a dry

sand-bank, upwards of three miles in length, with black

rocks in several parts of it. It proved to be a complete

mass of pumice-stone floating on the sea, some inches in

depth, with great numbers of trees and logs, that ap

peared to be burnt and shivered as by lightning. The
                                  if
                                                                   and until
                                               it

                                                                ;
boat had much difficulty in pulling through

we reached the entrance of Bima Bay, the sea was lite

rally covered with shoals of pumice and floating timber.'
   " On the 19th arrived in Bima Bay in coming to an
                               ;
                                                           :
anchor grounded on the bank of Bima Town, shoaling

suddenly from eight fathoms hove off again as the tide

was rising. The anchorage at Bima must have altered

considerably, as where we grounded the Ternate cruizer

lay at anchor in six fathoms few months before. The
                               a

shores of the bay had a most dreary appearance, being

entirely covered with ashes.'

278  ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

   " From the account of the Resident of Bima, it appears
that the eruption proceeded from the Tomboro Mountain,
situated about forty miles to the westward of Bima. On
the night of the 11th, he represents the explosions to have
been most terrific, and compares them to the report of a
heavy mortar close to his ear. The darkness commenced
about seven in the morning, and continued twelve hours
longer than it did at Macasar. The fall of ashes was so
heavy as to break the Resident's house in many places,
and render it uninhabitable, as well as many other houses
in the town. The wind was still during the whole time,
but the sea greatly agitated, its waves rolled in upon the
shore, and filled the lower parts of the houses with water
a foot deep. Every prow and boat was forced from the
anchorage and driven on shore, and several large prows are

now lying a considerable distance above high-water-mark.
   " ' On the 22d, the Dispatch, country ship, arrived in

the bay from Amboyna. It appears that this vessel had

mistaken a bay to the westward, called Sampo or Sangin
Bay, for Bima, and had gone into it : the Rajah of this
place informed the officer that the whole of the country
was entirely desolated, and the crops destroyed. The
town of Sangin is situated about four or five leagues to

the S. E. of the Tomboro Mountain. The officer found

great difficulty in landing in the bay, a considerable dis
tance from the shore being completely filled up with
pumice-stones, ashes, and logs of timber : the houses ap
peared beaten down and covered with ashes.

ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  279

   " ' Understanding that messengers had been sent into

Ithe interior, waited till the evening of the 22nd, and as

they had not then returned, owing, as was supposed, to

having found the country impassable, I left the bay at

eleven o'clock that night, and the next day was off the
Tomboro Mountain : in passing it at the distance of six
miles the summit was not visible, being enveloped in
clouds of smoke and ashes. The sides were smoking in

several places, apparently from lava which had flown down
them not being cooled ; several streams had reached the

sea; a very considerable one to the N.N.W. of the moun
tain, the course of which was plainly discernible, both
from the black colour of the lava contrasted with the
ashes on each side of it, and the smoke arising from
every part of it. The Tomboro Mountain, in a direct

line from Macasar, is about 217 nautical miles distance.'

  " It has been ascertained that these eruptions of the

Tomboro Mountain were heard through the whole chain
of the Molucca Islands. The Honourable Company's

cruizer Teignmouth was lying at anchor at Ternate on
the 5th April; between six and eight p.m., several very
distinct reports like heavy cannon were heard in the S.W.
quarter, which was supposed to be a ship in the offing, in
consequence of which the Resident sent a boat round the

island to ascertain if it was so. The next morning, how

ever, the boat returned without seeing any vessel in the
offing ; and the conclusion then drawn was that it might
be occasioned by the bursting of some volcanic moun

280  ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

tain in that quarter. Ternate Island 5° 0' N. 127°
30 E.

   " The easterly monsoon, however, had at this time dis

tinctly set in, and consequently the sounds would not be

heard so loudly and distinctly in the Moluccas, as from

the relative distance would otherwise have happened.

They extended, in the opposite direction, to Fort Marl-

bro', and several parts of Sumatra, as appears from the
following extract from thence :--

  " ' It is an extraordinary fact, that precisely the same

noise (taken by all who heard it to be a cannonade) oc
curred at several stations along this coast at the same

time, viz., the morning of the 11th April : several gentle
men heard it in Marlbro', the people from the interior

Icame down with accounts of                           and those from the higher

                   0'Dusuns spoke of a kind of ash-dust which had covered the
                                                 it,
herbage and the leaves of the trees. Reports to the same

effect (not mentioning any fall of ashes, however,) were
received from Moco-moco, Laye, Salumah, Manna, Pa-

dang Guchee, Croee, and Semanka. From some of these

stations the hill-people came down armed, to assist against

attacks which they imagined might be made upon the

head factories.'

  " It has not appeared that any noise of this kind was

heard at Padang, or much farther north than Moco-moco.

have since been told that the same noise was heard

at Trumon in about 2' 40' N. lat., and at Ayer Bungi

in about 15' N. lat., on or about the 11th April last.

ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  281

   " From Sumbawa to the port of Sumatra, where the

sound was noticed, is about 970 geographical miles in a
direct line ; from Sumbawa to Ternate is a distance of

720 miles ; and the existence of the S. E. monsoon at the

time may account for the difference of distance to which
the sound was heard in the westerly and easterly direc
tions : the distance, also, to which the cloud of ashes was

carried, so thickly as to produce utter darkness, is clearly
pointed out to have been the island of Celebes, and the
districts of Gresie on Java. The former is 217 nautical

miles distant from the seat of the volcano--the latter in a

direct line more than 300 geographical miles distant.

  I" shall conclude this account with an extract of a

letter from Lieutenant Owen Phillips, written from Bima

on the 23rd ultimo. It has been mentioned in a former

part, that on receiving intelligence of the extreme distress

Ithat had been occasioned by this extraordinary event,

dispatched a supply of rice to their relief, and Lieutenant

Phillips was desired to proceed and adjust the delivery
thereof, with instructions, at the same time, to ascertain,

as nearly as possible, the local effects of the volcano. His
report is as follows :--

    " ' On my trip towards the western part of the island,

I passed through nearly the whole of Dompo, and a con

siderable part of Bima. The extreme misery to which
the inhabitants have been reduced is shocking to behold :
there were still on the road-side the remains of several

corpses, and the marks of where many others had been

282  ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

interred; the villages almost entirely deserted, and the

houses fallen down, the surviving inhabitants having dis

persed in search of food.
   " ' In Dompo, the sole subsistence of the inhabitants

for some time past has been the heads of the different

species of palm, and the stalks of the papaya and

plantain.
   " ' Since the eruption, a violent diarrhoea has prevailed

in Bima, Dompo, and Saugar, which has carried off a

great number of people. It is supposed by the natives

to have been caused by drinking water which has been

impregnated with the ashes ; and horses have also died,

in great numbers, from a similar complaint.

   " ' The Rajah of Saugar came to wait on me at Dompo
on the 3rd inst. The sufferings of the people there
appear, from his account, to be still greater than in

Dompo. The famine has been so severe, that even one

of his own daughters died from hunger. I presented him

with three coyangs of rice in your name, for which he ap

peared to be truly grateful.

   " ' As the Rajah was himself a spectator of the late

eruption, the following account which he gave me, is, per

Ihaps, more to be depended upon than any other can

possibly obtain :--
   " ' About seven p.m., on the 10th of April, three dis

tinct columns of flame burst forth, near the top of Tom-
boro Mountain, all of them apparently within the verge of

the crater ; and after ascending separately to a very great

ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.  283

height, their tops united in the air in a troubled confused

manner. In a short time the whole mountain next

Saugar appeared like a body of liquid fire extending
itself in every direction.

   " ' The fire and columns of flame continued to rage

with unabated fury, until the darkness caused by the
quantity of falling matter obscured it at about eight p.m.
Stones at this time fell very thick at Saugar ; some of
them as large as two fists, but generally not larger than
walnuts. Between nine and ten p. m. ashes began to fall ;

and soon after a violent whirlwind ensued, which blew

down nearly every house in the village of Saugar, carry

ing the tops and light parts along with it. In the part of

Saugar adjoining Tomboro, its effects were much more
violent, tearing up by the roots the largest trees, and
carrying them into the air, together with men, houses,

cattle, and whatever else came within its influence -- (this
will account for the immense number of floating trees seen
at sea). The sea rose nearly twelve feet higher than it

had ever been known to be before, and completely spoiled
the only small spots of rice-lands in Saugar, sweeping

away houses and every thing within its reach.

   " ' The whirlwind lasted about an hour. No explosions
were heard till the whirlwind had ceased, at about eleven
a.m. From midnight till the evening of the 11th they

continued without intermission ; after that, their violence

moderated, and they were only heard at intervals; but
the explosions did not cease entirely until the 15th of

284  ERUPTION FROM THE TOMBORO MOUNTAIN.

July. The mountain still throws out immense volumes
of smoke, and the natives are apprehensive of another

eruption during the ensuing rainy season.

   " ' Of the whole of the villages of Tomboro, Jempo,

containing about forty inhabitants, is the only one re

maining. In Precate, no vestige of a house is left.

Twenty-six of the people who were at Sambawa at the
time are the whole of the population who have escaped.

  " ' From the most particular inquiries I have been able

to make, there were certainly not fewer than 12,000 in
dividuals in Tomboro and Precate at the time of the

eruption.
   " ' The trees and herbage of every description along

the whole of the north and west sides of the Peninsula

have been completely destroyed, with the exception of a

high point of land near the spot where the village of

Tomboro stood; on it a few trees still remain. In the

Inight of the eruption, two men and two women, am in

Iformed, escaped to this point, and were saved.  have

sent in search of them, but have not yet been able to get

hold of them ; no person has yet been along the eastern

side of the hill.

  " ' A messenger who returned yesterday from Sam

bawa relates that the fall of ashes has been heavier at

Sambawa than on this side the Gulf, and that an immense

number of people have been starved : they are now part
ing with their horses and buffaloes for a half or quarter

rupee s worth of rice or corn. The distress has, however,

                LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.  285

I trust, been alleviated by this time, as the brig, with

sixty-three coyangs of rice, from Java, arrived there the
day he was leaving it.' "

   " Batavia, September 28, 1815."

                TO MR. MARSDEN.

" My dear Sir,  " Buitenzorg, Aug. 6, 1815.

I" have only time to thank you for your very kind

letter by Captain Travers, and to return you my grateful

acknowledgments for the warm and steady support which

you have given to my cause. Magna est Veritas et pra-

valebit.

" A severe domestic affliction has banished for a time

Ithe hope     once entertained of an early retirement --

activity and the cares of public responsibility are now

Ialmost necessary for my existence.  trust, however, that

a few months more will restore that serenity of mind which

will admit of my looking on the past with calmness. You

will see that although I do not like to stand in the way of

the arrangement I have suggested for the government of

Ithis island and its dependencies,  am by no means indif

ferent or disinclined to act, and to continue to act in any

capacity in which my employment may not injure the

public interests.

  I" entreat of you to advocate the cause of Java, if

there is a possibility of its remaining under the British

protection."

28C     LETTER TO W. B. RAMSAY.

        *****TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ. FROM MR. RAFFLES.
                                             " Buitenzorg, Aug. 5th, 1815.
I" have no idea of returning to Europe while any

Ithing is to be done hereabout.  am really too tired to

write you fully ; my back aches from sheer hard writing

*****for the two last days.
" Pay a little attention to my dear sister Marianne, and

Iher child, when you can.  am glad Flint has come out

again.

  " I should wish to remain in the country until a deci

sion on this reference was known, until time had been
given to my successor in office to appreciate and report
on the character of my administration, and until a suffi
cient lapse occurred in Europe between the effects of the
stigma passed on my conduct, and the change of opinion
which a subsequent better knowledge of the true state of
things must occasion."

   The following is an extract of a letter to the Earl of
Buckinghamshire :--

   " These Islands, my Lord, are doubtless the real Ta-
probana of the ancients--the sacred isles of the Hindus !

   " Who that has mixed with the East insular tribes,

who that has become in the least acquainted with their

ways of thinking, that will not bear ample testimony that

LETTER TO THE EARL OF BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.  287

their character is as yet unknown to Europe ? Even their
piracy and deadly creeses which have proved such fertile
sources of abuse and calumny, have nothing in them to
affright ; nay, there is something even to admire in them
--their piracies are but a proof of their spirit and their
enterprize, and the regulation of good government is

alone wanting to direct this spirit and this enterprize in a
course more consonant with our notions of civilization.

IAnd now, may ask what was the state of Scotland two
Ihundred years ago ? In the last prints from Europe

observed the particulars of the trial of some unfortunate
people of these islands, who were subsequently executed
for attempting to cut off the ship, Governor Raffles, on
her voyage to England. No doubt a general horror was

excited by the atrocity of their conduct ; but if it is con

sidered that these men were in all probability cajoled on
board the ship in the expectation of her going only a
short voyage, and within their own latitudes, some allow

ance may be made for their feelings when they found
themselves deceived, and hurried into a cold, tempestuous,
and bitter climate, of which, judging from their own seas,
they could have formed no previous conception. Suffer
ing under the acuteness of bodily pain and mental
anguish, thinking on their families and their homes, which

they were daily leaving farther behind, perhaps never to
visit again, and seeing no end to the increase of their

Imiseries--may not some allowance be made for them ?

am far from wishing to insinuate discredit or censure on

288  LETTER TO THE EARL OF BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

Ithe parties connected with this particular instance.

doubt not that every thing was done that could be done

Iby the owners and captain ; but know that, generally

speaking, such is the way that sailors in this country are

Ifprocured for long voyages.  even they were apprised

of the length of their voyage, and promised payment

accordingly, will not their case, in some degree, resemble

that of the first adventurers to the new world? The

creeses is to the Malay what the practice of duelling is to

European nations. There are certain points in the com

position of every man's notions which cannot be regulated

by courts of law ; the property, the life, the character of

the European is protected by law ; but yet there are some

points, and these are the very points on which all society
hinges, which are not protected. In support of these he

contemns the law which stigmatizes him as a murderer,

and the very men who made the laws still say he is right.

Neither the property, the life, nor the character of the
Malay is secured by law --he proudly defends them with

his own hand whenever they are endangered. The readi

ness with which an injury is thus redressed has a wonder

ful effect in the prevention of injuries; and except in

warlike enterprize the Malay is seldom known to draw his

criss, unless perhaps in defence of what he considers his

honour. The certainty of resentment has produced that

urbanity and consideration for the feelings of each other,

that they are habitually well-bred, and if they are to be

'armed savages, certainly they are the most polite of all

         RESPONSIBILITY OF MR. RAFFLES.     269

savages ; but in truth they are very far from being

savages."

  It is evident from what has been stated, that during the

whole period of his administration, Mr. Raffles had con

stantly been occupied with the varied and extensive duties

of his situation, which had required from him incessant

labour and attention; every thing, in fact, rested upon

himself. He was unacquainted, or but slightly acquainted,

with the principles or characters of most of those whom he

had to employ ; he was compelled to instruct, direct, and

confide in all ; and these, untried and unknown, were to

be surrounded by temptations and examples of pecula

tion, bribery, and corruption. It is to the honour of the

individuals so employed and so chosen, that, under all

succeeding circumstances, so few were found to fail in their

duty, and so many proved themselves worthy of the confi

dence reposed in them.

Mr. Raffles was occupied constantly from four in the

morning until eleven and twelve at night ; and the weight

of this heavy duty was much increased by his being under

the necessity of acting entirely upon his own responsi
bility in all the great measures of his government.

Such a state of anxious uncertainty would have made a

less conscientious person refrain from such constant and

unremitting action ; but it was one of his principles in

public as well as private life, to do good to the utmost of

his power ; and in the accomplishment of this object, no

vol. i.                                  u

290 LETTER TO WILLIAM BROWN RAMSAY, ESQ.

labour was too severe, no responsibility too burdensome
to be borne.

    The deep interest which Mr. Raffles took in the happi
ness of the Javanese induced him to exert every faculty
of his mind to instruct and improve them ; and this was
to him comparatively easy, even in the pressure of all the
more direct and ordinary business of his station ; he
was gifted with a power of such rapid decision, his discri
mination was so clear, and his arrangements so immediate
and perfect, that he was able to effect more business, of
every kind, than any single person of those around him

could have thought possible. It is stated by some of those

who were in the habit of observing him at this time, that they
have seen him write upwards of twenty sheets of minutes,
orders, &c, &c. without any correction or even alteration

being necessary. It has already been stated, that he re

quired three clerks to copy and keep up with what he
wrote ; and that he frequently dictated to two persons
whilst engaged in writing letters himself.

 ******TO WILLIAM BROWN RAMSAY, ESQ.
                                              " Buitenzorg, October 18, 1815.

   " You will be anxious to know my determination as to
proceeding to England ; my character--my future happi
ness --require my presence in England. The impression

Ion my mind is, that shall quit this country at the close

REVIEW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF JAVA.    291

of 1816 ; but this depends upon circumstances not within

my control. I may go earlier-- I may go later. Your
I Iadvice will, think, be for the best, and am inclined to
Iconcur in it : for here am ' a lonely man, like one that

has long since been dead ;' and should any thing keep

Ime away for one year, from friends who am sure would
Ibe glad to receive me with open arms ! . . . want leisure

to recover from the effects of that weight of responsibility

Iwhich has almost weighed me down ; yet am high and

Iproud in my own integrity.      thank you for the warmth

and attachment which breathe through every line of your

letter now before me ; it has roused the finest feelings in

my breast ; and in the test of friendship, where is the

heart that would not be glad ?"

   Before leaving Java, Mr. Raffles addressed the follow
ing letter to the Court of Directors :

" At the close                           " Batavia, March 11, 1816.
                of an arduous and extensive administra

tion, which will be admitted to have commenced at a mo

ment of peculiar financial difficulty, and to have been

attended with embarrassments unusual to a new govern
ment, in consequence of the bankruptcy of the preceding

government, and of a necessity having nevertheless existed

of respecting, in some degree, the forced and imperious
measures to which that government resorted, in order to

carry on their ordinary details ; I am anxious to place in

                                 u2

292 REVIEW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF JAVA.

your possession a view of the present financial state of this

Icolony. This review shall found, not on estimates, but
Ion actual records ; and confidently trust it will prove to

the satisfaction of your Honourable Court, that my ideas
on the value and importance of this colony have not been
raised too high, but that time only was wanting, and a
perseverance in principles of liberal and extended policy,
to render it equal to all the extent that has either been
contemplated or reported.

  I" shall not detain your Honourable Court by any

review of the past financial arrangements adopted at dif
ferent periods of my administration. The opinions which

have been passed upon them by the Supreme Government
in India, and the explanations which we considered our
selves enabled to offer, are already before your Honour
able Court; and my letter of the 5th of August, 1815,
will have explained the foundation of our present revenue
and resources, and prepare you to expect that the general
result would be more favourable, since the system of admi
nistration which it has been my object to introduce into
this island, in accordance with the principles laid down by

the late Earl of Minto, began to have effect.

  I" now request to lay before you further documents,

illustrative of the progressive improvement that has taken

place."

                 CHAPTER IX.

Mr. Raffles hears he is to be relieved in the Government -- Residency
  of Bencoolen secured to him--Forced to return to England by ill
   health -- Arrival of Mr. Fendall--Reception of him-- General regret
   at Mr. Raffles' departure--Presentation of plate --Endeavours by a
   last memorial to secure justice to the native princes and people --
   The objects of their treaties with the English -- Objects neglected
   by the English Government -- Island restored without conditions to
  the Dutch--Embarkation -- State of mind on quitting Java -- Ex
   tract from Captain Tr avers' Journal during the voyage -- St.
   Helena -- Interview with Buonaparte -- Arrival at Falmouth--
   Mines in Cornwall -- Journey to London.

Mr. Raffles was at Ciceroa when he heard that he was

to be relieved from the charge of the government. Though
the mode in which the intelligence was conveyed was most
unexpected, it did not affect his equanimity and com

posure.

   Lord Minto had secured to him the Residency of Ben
coolen, as a provision in case Java had been transferred
to the Crown, when of course a Governor and Council
would have been sent out from England. This appoint
ment was now offered to him, but his health was so im
paired, his strength so exhausted, that his medical
advisers considered it absolutely necessary for the pre
servation of his life, that he should proceed to Europe
without delay.

294  ARRIVAL OF MR. KENDALL.

   As soon as it was ascertained that Mr. Fendall was

appointed to succeed to the government, and was actually
on his way to Java, Mr. Raffles determined to leave
Ciceroa, and return to Buitenzorg, in order to be ready
at the shortest notice to proceed to Batavia for the pur
pose of receiving his successor. He felt himself aggrieved,
but he well knew his being so was in no way attributable
to Mr. Fendall; and he wished to pay the respect and
attention which he thought due to the station that Mr.

Fendall was about to fill. Mr. Raffles was alarmingly
reduced at this time by the joint action of illness, and of

the violent remedies which had been applied ; but his
spirits rose superior to his bodily strength, and he could
not be persuaded to allow any personal consideration to

interfere with a public arrangement. He exacted little

himself, but he was most scrupulous in his attention to

others. Accordingly, the moment the report reached
Buitenzorg, that Mr. Fendall had arrived in Batavia
Roads, Mr. Raffles was ready to proceed ; and although
he had been confined to the house for several days before,
he left Buitenzorg at three o'clock in the morning, and
arrived at Ryswick in time to make the necessary arrange
ments for receiving the new Governor with suitable

honors.
   Mr. Raffles introduced Mr. Fendall to all those who

had been useful whilst employed under his government,
with some private recommendatory tribute of praise, or
some public acknowledgment of their merits. The scene

DEPARTURE OF MR. RAFFLES.  295

was an interesting one, from the total absence of all selfish
consideration which marked Mr. Raffles' conduct ; he was
entirely absorbed in the desire of promoting the welfare

of others, and if possible, securing to them any advantages

which they might have derived from his presence. The
exertion, however, as may be supposed, was too great for
him in his debilitated state, and at the close of the day he
was obliged to retire. Having previously made every
arrangement, he quitted the Government-house in the
evening for Mr. Cransen's, where he remained until his
embarkation. When it became generally known that Mr.
Raffles was obliged to proceed to England as the only
hope of preserving his life, the European and native inha
bitants united in expressing their deep regret at his de
parture, and in acknowledging in the warmest terms their
gratitude for the benefits which he had conferred upon

them during his administration. A magnificent service

of plate was given to him by them on his arrival in Eng

land ; and his own immediate staff, besides uniting in this
noble gift, presented him with a separate and exclusive
piece of plate, as a testimony of their affection and grati
tude for the kindness which he had shown to them, and the

interest that he had taken in their welfare.
   The delay preparatory to embarkation gave Mr. Fendall

an opportunity of looking into the public proceedings,
and of forming an opinion on the principal acts of the
government. He frankly avowed his approbation of them
all; and without one alteration continued Mr. Raffles'

296 REGRET AT MR. RAFFLES' DEPARTURE.

personal staff in their former situations, and expressed
his determination to attend to all Mr. Raffles' wishes.

   Mr. Raffles did not depart from Java without making
an effort to induce those who succeeded him to secure
justice to the people whom he was leaving. But un
fortunately his appeal in behalf of those for whose wel
fare he had so anxiously laboured, was not attended
to ; and the Island was transferred to the Dutch without
one stipulation in favour of the natives, who had in justice
a right to expect that some provisions would have been
made for their interests. The events which followed the
re-occupation of the Island by the Dutch afford a melan
choly proof of the sad effects of this neglect.

   Mr. Raffles engaged his passage in the Ganges, a fine
vessel in Batavia Roads, at that time preparing for
England. Lieutenant-Colonel, then Captain Garnham,
Captain Travers (two of his Aides-de-camp) and Sir
Thomas Sevestre, his medical attendant, with all the dis
interestedness of devoted zeal and friendship, determined
to accompany him. The natives and Europeans, Dutch
as well as English, evinced a strong feeling of interest
and regret. The inhabitants had experienced, from his
administration, benefits which were fresh in their memory;
the welfare of all had been watched with a parental soli
citude ; and perhaps no conquered country had ever been
so quickly restored to tranquillity, or so strictly preserved
in quietness and good order as Java, during the period
of British rule. There were also many amongst the

EMBARKATION.  297

respectable Dutch inhabitants who attributed, and
perhaps with justice, to Mr. Raffles, the line of con
duct adopted by Lord Minto on the first capture of the
Island.

   If, in addition to this, it is remembered how warmly he
devoted himself to the improvement of the people, the

information which he collected on every point connected
with the Island, the total ignorance that previously pre
vailed, the assistance which he rendered to literature, the

zeal with which he promoted all objects of science, it will
be no matter of surprise that he established a name and
character which will not be soon forgotten in the Island
of Java.

    On the morning of Mr. Raffles' embarkation, the Roads
of Batavia were filled with boats, crowded with people of
various nations, all anxious to pay the last tribute of
respect within their power to one for whom they enter
tained the most lively affection. On reaching the vessel,
 he found the decks filled with offerings of every descrip
 tion -- fruits, flowers, poultry, whatever they thought

 would promote his comfort on the voyage. It is impos

 sible to describe the scene which took place when the order
 was given to weigh anchor; the people felt that they
 had lost the greatest friend whom Java ever possessed ;
 and perhaps they anticipated, as too near, their re
 delivery to the Dutch power, and the consequently too
 probable revival of the scenes of misgovernment, from
 which, under the administration of Mr. Raffles, they had

298  LETTER TO N. B. EDMONSTONE.

been relieved for five years, and ought to have been
relieved for ever.

   The following extract of a letter to Mr. Edmonstone at
this time will show the temper of mind in which Mr.
Raffles relinquished his authority.

To N. B. Edmonstone, Esq. (then one of the members of
   Supreme Council in Bengal, and now one of the Court of
   Directors of the Honourable East India Company.)

     of" On board the Ganges,  Bantam, March 26, 1816.

    " My dear Sir,

       I" cannot quit Java without returning you my

warmest acknowledgments for the consideration which

you have always evinced for me, and in particular for the

*****Ikindness and protection with which am confident you

have endeavoured to shield my public as well as my

private character, in discussions in which both have been

most violently and wantonly attacked.
  I" leave the character of my administration in general

*****Ito be appreciated by my successor ; and look forward

with confidence to a period when it will be proved that I

have not been found wanting in the discharge of the high,

arduous, and responsible trust committed to my care.
   " My public letter will inform you of the necessity
which drives me to the Cape, and eventually to Europe ;

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.                  299

and unfortunate as this unexpected circumstance must be

Iconsidered, must hope that the necessity of proceeding

to Europe, and of consequently giving up a lucrative em

ployment, occasioned as it is by an illness brought on by

great exertions, by anxiety, and a sense of injustice, will

Inot weaken any claims which may possess on the consi

deration and justice of the higher authorities.

  I" Into the hands of Mr. Fendall have resigned my

charge without reluctance." * * *

   An extract from Captain Travers' Journal will give an
account of the voyage :--

   " Our voyage commenced under the most favourable

circumstances ; the weather was mild, the wind fair. On

the third day after leaving Batavia Roads, being entrusted

with the address to Mr. Raffles from his own immediate

Istaff, to present to him after our getting out to sea,

waited upon him in his cabin with it ; and the scene which

ensued was the most distressing I had ever witnessed.

it,
After perusing he became so completely overcome as to

be unable to utter a word but the moment he began to
                          :
                                                 ;
recover a little, he took up his pen and whilst the feeling

and impression was fresh, he wrote the beautiful and

affectionately-expressed  reply, which was afterwards

printed by his friends, and attached to the addressesis

and replies presented on the occasion of his leaving Java.
   " The presentation of this address was altogether un

expected on Mr. Raffles' part and as was meant to
                          ;                         it

300  EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERs' JOURNAL.

convey to him the sentiments of cordial and heartfelt
esteem and affection of those who had the best oppor
tunity of judging of the spotless integrity and amiable
qualities which shed a lustre over his private life, as well
as the purity and uprightness of his public conduct, it was
but natural to suppose that such a testimonial must have
been most gratifying at such a moment, and he certainly
prized it very highly.

   " As we proceeded on our voyage the change of cli
mate and the pure sea air seemed to be of great service
to Mr. Eaffles, whose general state of health began visibly
to improve. He employed his time on board ship chiefly
in assorting his papers, for the first part ; and until his
health began to get better, he read for amusement, and
paid strict attention to medical advice, and no doubt de
rived much benefit from so doing.

   " As we approached St. Helena, Mr. Raffles expressed
much anxiety to touch there, in the hope of seeing Buona
parte ; and Captain Falconer, ever ready to meet the
wishes of one for whom he seemed to entertain the highest
respect and esteem, determined on going there for the
avowed purpose of taking in a fresh supply of water, and
we accordingly made the island at three o'clock a.m., on
the 18th May, 1816; and meeting with no opposition,
notwithstanding our having heard of vessels being sta
tioned to windward, as well as leeward, of the island, to

speak all vessels as they approached, we stood in, and
actually came close to one of the batteries before we were

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.  301

discovered ; .but immediately on being seen we were

brought to, and soon after a boat came off from the Ad

miral's ship to take charge of the Ganges, inquire into
our wants, and communicate by signal with the flag-ship.

   " At this moment all our hopes of seeing Buonaparte,

or indeed of being permitted to land, were destroyed, by

the naval officers who came on board informing us that we

would not be allowed to land ; and as our vessel could be

quickly watered from the flag-ship, no communication with
the shore would be allowed.

   " The disappointment occasioned by this intelligence I

never can forget. After so long a voyage, to come within
the reach of shore, and not to be allowed to land, ap
peared to us, at the moment, to be one of the most dis

appointing and vexatious occurrences in our lives.

   " Mr. Raffles, who shared with us all our disappoint
ment, but with more command of himself, endeavoured to

reconcile us to our fate ; and in place of looking from the
deck at a spot which we could not reach, and the sight of

which would only tend to excite our chagrin and annoy
ance, suggested that we should retire to our cabins, and
commit to paper our feelings at the moment, which would

amuse us during our detention. To this we all assented ;

Ibut believe the only person of the party, who was suf

ficiently collected to write any thing appropriate, was

Mr. Raffles himself ; all the rest entertained a hope

that permission would be granted to land, when the

Admiral knew who was on board, and I had written to

302 EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.

the Secretary by the Lieutenant who had come from the

flag-ship.

   " In this we were not mistaken, as, in a very short time

after the Lieutenant left us, a signal was made from the

flag-ship to anchor in a particular place, and this was
quickly followed by Colonel Mansel, of the 53rd, and

Captain Le Blanc coming on board, with permission from

the Admiral to land.

  " When the boat was close to the Ganges, I went into

Mr. Raffles' cabin to inform him of the circumstance, and

was just in time to save the following verses from destruc

tion, which he had written as quickly as it was possible to
write, and had not read it over, or corrected a word ;--on

my telling him that we should certainly be allowed to

land, he was just going to destroy the paper, when I

entreated him to allow me to read with which he comit it,

plied, and immediately copied        verbatim, as  was
           *I                          I
                                                 it
                                                          it
written, and returned the original but know not whether
                               ;

Mr. Raffles ever looked at again, nor did ever see
               it

afterwards.

               *
                               *
                                                *
                                                  #

   " On our landing, we were most kindly received by the
Admiral, Sir George Cockburn, who requested us to call

at the town-major's and peruse the garrison orders, to
which he directed our particular attention. After which
we paid our respects to the Governor, Sir Hudson Lowe,
who invited us to dinner, and promised to send horses for
us. We then solicited permission to visit Buonaparte,

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.  303

which was granted, on condition that during our interview
we were not to address him as Emperor, but simply as
General, and in the event of our being received by Buo
naparte with his hat on, we were not to continue in con
versation uncovered ; to all which we willingly assented,
and after passing a very pleasant evening at the Govern
ment-house, we commenced our journey to visit Buona
parte immediately after breakfast in the morning. Our
first object was to see Marshal Bertrand, whom we found
in a miserably poor habitation, together with his charming
Countess. The Marshal received us with the easy air of
a well-bred gentleman, and the Countess with great affa
bility and good humour, contrasting her present abode
with that which she lately occupied in France.

   " The Marshal seemed to feel anxious that we should
not be disappointed in the object of our visit, but ex
pressed some fears, in consequence of his royal master

having signified his intention not to receive any visiters
for some days ; he, however, kindly offered us letters to
Count Las Casas, entreating him to use every exertion to

obtain an interview for us. With this letter we proceeded
to Longwood, and were most kindly and politely received
by Count Las Casas, with whom we enjoyed some very

 agreeable conversation.
    " On our informing him that we were to leave the

 island in the evening, he seemed anxious that his royal
 master should see us, and he left us for a short time, and

 on returning informed us that the Emperor would dress

304 INTERVIEW WITH BUONAPARTE.

in an hour, and although he could not say for a certainty,

yet he hoped, and thought, he would see us. With this

we took our leave and went to Dead Wood, about a mile
distant, where the 53rd regiment were stationed. Whilst
we were taking refreshment with Colonel Mansel, Mr.
Raffles received a note from Count Las Casas, saying that
the Emperor would see us, and we accordingly returned
to Longwood ; where, before being introduced, we found
this once great man in earnest conversation with Countess
Bertrand, who was walking with him in the garden ;
General Gourgaud preceded, Marshal Bertrand, Count
Las Casas, Captain Poniatowsky, and a page followed,
all uncovered. On our arrival being announced, we were
quickly informed that the Emperor would receive us in
the garden ; and Count Las Casas added, that although
it had been the Emperor's intention not to see any person
for some days, yet on being told that it was Mr. Raffles,
late Governor of Java, who wished the interview, he im

mediately consented to see us.
   " On our approaching, Napoleon turned quickly round

to receive us, and taking off his hat, put it under his arm.
His reception was not only not dignified or graceful, but
absolutely vulgar and authoritative. He put a series of
questions to Mr. Raffles in such quick succession, as to
render it impossible to reply to one before another was
put. His first request was to have Mr. Raffles' name
pronounced distinctly. He then asked him in what coun
try he was born ? how long he had been in India ? whether

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERs' JOURNAL.  305

he had accompanied the expedition against the Island of
Java ? who commanded ? and on being told Sir Samuel

Achmuty, he seemed to recollect his name, and made some

observations to Las Casas respecting him. He was par
ticular in asking the extent of force, and the regiments
employed, and then enquired if Mr. Baffles delivered up
the Island to the Dutch, or was relieved by another Go
vernor. He appeared to be acquainted with the value
and importance of the Island, but put some strange ques
tions to Mr. Raffles, such as how the King of Java con

ducted himself. On Mr. Raffles explaining, he seemed

most attentive, and then asked whether the spice planta
tions at Amboyna were doing well, and whether the Spice

Islands were to be also restored to the Dutch. He then

asked the name of the ship in which we were going home,

with what cargo laden, and which was best, Bourbon or

Java coffee ; all these questions were put with great

rapidity, and before replied to he turned round to Captain

Garnham and myself, asked our names, and what service

we had seen; whether we were ever wounded, or ever

taken prisoners; how long we had been in India, and

several other similar questions. He then again addressed
himself to Mr. Raffles, and seemed interested with his re

marks on Java. He conversed with Sir Thomas Sevestre,

and put similar questions to him with those he had put to

Garnham and myself. On his making a slight inclination
of the head, we prepared to take our leave, and on our

making our bow we parted, Napoleon continuing his walk,

vol. 1.  x

30G  EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAYERS' JOURNAL.

and we returning to the house. During the whole time of

our interview, as Napoleon remained uncovered, common
politeness obliged us to keep our hats in our hands ; and
at no time was it found necessary to give him any title,
either of General or Emperor.

   " Las Casas returned with us to the house, where a cold
collation was prepared. He was most polite and attentive,
and seemed much pleased with Mr. Raffles, with whom he
conversed most freely. Of Napoleon he spoke in terms
of the highest possible praise, and seemed to lament most

bitterly his present situation.

   " After our interview with Bonaparte, we made all pos

sible haste to get on board the ship ; and as we descended

from Plantation-house were much surprised to see the
Ganges was under-weigh ; but, on reaching the beach, we
found that the Admiral, Sir George Cockburn, on ordering
the vessel to get under-weigh, had kindly sent his own
barge to attend Mr. Raffles, and take his party to the

ship, which we did not reach till dusk. We immediately

proceeded on our voyage, delighted at our visit to St.
Helena, which afforded a fine subject for conversation for

many days afterwards

   " Our weather was delightful, although the winds were
light and baffling, and so much retarded our progress
that we did not make the Island of Ascension for six days

after leaving St. Helena, which is considered a long

passage.

    " We did not, as is customary, send a boat on shore for

SCENES OF THE VOYAGE.  307

turtle, as the wind springing up favourable we did not

wish to lose a moment, and so proceeded on our voyage,
and soon began to experience the benefit of a fine brisk
trade-wind, which swept us along most pleasantly, at the

same time at a most rapid rate.

   " With the return of health Mr. Raffles' spirits greatly
improved. He used often to amuse us with translations
of different papers connected with the ancient history of
Java, and would often read aloud for us in the evening.
In conversation he was fond of alluding to, and explaining,
the several acts of his administration in Java, which he

thought would ultimately tend much to the improvement
of the Island, and the amelioration of the condition of the

Javanese, whom he always seemed to feel a great interest

for. In these conversations he never spoke with severity
or harshness of those whom he knew to be the cause of his

removal from a government which established for the
British name a character and credit in the Eastern Seas

which will ever be respected and revered. He seldom
touched upon the annoying circumstances of his superces-

sion, except to express a hope that justice, however late,
would not be altogether denied to him ; and he felt con
vinced that on being heard at home all possible amends
would be made him by the Court of Directors.

   " In this most agreeable way we continued our voyage
without interruption or annoyance of any kind till the 17th
of June, when a most extraordinary circumstance occurred.
The Auspicious, a country ship, laden like ourselves with

                                                       x2

308  SCENES OF THE VOYAGE.

coffee, and bound from Batavia to London, which had
been keeping company with us from the day of sailing,
was close alongside the Ganges within speaking distance

in the evening, when, the breeze increasing, the Auspicious

went a little a-head. The night was fine and bright, and

we all remained on deck longer than usual, enjoyinga

and admiring the brisk rate at which both vessels were;

                                                     it it,
going, each having royals, and as much sail as they could

carry. About three o'clock we were alarmed at hearing a

shot from the Auspicious, and on looking towards her

would be impossible to describe our dismay and surprise

at finding that she had lost her three topmasts, fore, main,
and mizen, and seemed perfect wreck. As morning

dawned, and we could discern more distinctly, nothing could
look more miserable than she did how strikingly differ

ent from what she was the preceding evening, when with

swelling sail she seemed to cut the waves, whilst now, a

perfect wreck, she lay completely at their mercy.

   " To account for this sudden squall injuring the Auspi

cious so very much, and not reaching the Ganges, only
                                                  it

                                                      a
                                                                a
few hundred yards distant, was more than any one on

board either vessel could do. The sailors called  white

squall, desperate for the moment, but of short duration.

During the night, on board the Ganges, we had not expe

rienced the slightest increase of breeze, nor was there the

appearance of a squall observed by any one on board and
     a

                                          ;
all remarked that we had not passed smoother or more

tranquil night during our voyage. We remained with the

LETTER TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.                               309

Auspicious for a day or two, to render all assistance in

our power ; and it is astonishing how soon she repaired

her injuries and became fit to join company again. We

made all sail on the third day after the accident, and then

proceeded with fair weather and favourable winds.

   " The 6th of July was Mr. Raffles' birth-day, when he

had completed his thirty-fifth year ; and the weather being

mild and favourable, Captain Falconer invited our com-

pagnon de voyage, Captain Nash, to dine on board the

Ganges, and do honour to the day ; when we passed a

most agreeable and happy one, delighted to see the health

of him whose birth-day we were thus celebrating, holding

forth such fair prospects of our being able to celebrate many

such anniversaries. We drank toasts in bumpers, and

made speeches without number, and concluded the day as

I iswe had commencedwith rejoicings not little in

           it,creased, perhaps, by the prospect before us of so soon
                               a
touching the blessed shores of old England once again,
                            I;
from whence we had been so long absent."I

                                                        a
   The following an extract of letter to his friend Mr.
W. B. Ramsay, written on the voyage: --

   " To be plain, must tell you, my dear friend, that after

suffering severely from an illness brought on in conse

quence of great anxiety and personal fatigue, embarked
on the 25th March last from Batavia, and am now looking

out for the English coast. My party consists of three

gentlemen and my family, among whom have to reckon

310  LETTER TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.

your friend Travers, who, if not too lazy to write, ought

to tell you a great deal more about the matter ; for myself,

I Ialthough am considerably recovered, yet remain wretch

edly thin and sallow, with a jaundiced eye and shapeless

leg. Yet, I thank God, my spirit is high and untamed,
Iand the meeting of friends will, hope, soon restore me to

my usual health.

   I" return to you, however, a poor solitary wretch ; and

the rocks of Albion, which under other circumstances

would have met my eye with joy and gladness, will not

Inow present themselves without reflections which cannot

dwell upon.

  " If the Alcione has arrived, you will have been apprized

of the result of Lord Moira's proceedings. His Lordship
deemed it advisable to postpone any decision on Gillespie's

charges: the Supreme Government, however, have de

clared my character unaffected by these charges, and
further stated that they considered it but an act of justice

to leave my reserve appointment to Bencoolen unshaken,
this being the test by which the Court judge of my having
explained my conduct satisfactorily. But the manner in
which my removal from Java was effected, and the whole
course of proceedings adopted towards me by the Gover

nor-General has been such, that it was impossible for me to

rest satisfied with this tardy and incomplete judgment. I

therefore resolved to appeal to the authorities in England,

and in the mean time quietly to go to Bencoolen : but the

shock was too severe, my health had been undermined,

LETTER TO W. B. RAMSAY, ESQ.            311

and this injustice threw me on my back. It was the

opinion of the faculty that remaining longer in India was

Idangerous, and took the resolution of proceeding to the

Cape, and eventually to England.
   " My successor arrived on the 11th, and in thirteen days

Iafter quitted Batavia, in the Ganges, leaving my appoint

ment to Bencoolen untouched. It would appear to have

been the opinion of Mr. Edmonstone, that the orders of

the Court left a latitude for the Supreme Government to

exert themselves in my favour ; but this opinion was over

ruled by the influence of Lord Moira. A struggle, how

Iever, was made, and       am left to hope that even in

the proceedings of the Governor- General in Council I

have found something like justice, and acknowledgment

for my services recorded.

" It is my intention to appeal most forcibly to the Court

Iagainst the whole course of measures.  feel confident I

shall obtain justice from them : this is all I shall ask for.

I have a cause that will carry conviction. I am prepared

for every member being prepossessed against me but I

have documents with me that will prove that they have

been imposed upon. I am prepared to prove that so far

from having been a burden to the finances of Great Bri

tain, that in the wind-up there is every chance of a sur

plus ; that in the affair of Palemoang 1 aciea accoraing

to the principle laid down by the Governor- General in

Council, and received the full and unreserved approval of

the Governor- General in Council; but this was while

312  EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.

Lord Minto was at the head of affairs. That in my

land-revenue arrangements the rights of no one had been

subverted, and the just rights of all have been placed on

a footing more advantageous than was ever before felt by

Ithem.  come prepared to meet every one of my enemies,

but with a determination to turn them into friends.

   " You will have to pay many a sixpence for this letter,

yet I hope you will not grudge considering that comes
                       it,
from one, who although he brings back with him from
India but a sorry carcase, and wants the blazonments of;

                                         it

                                                 is

                                                                      ;

                                                  it
power, returns with a heart and soul as purely and devot
edly attached as was on the day of parting neither
time, nor distance, nor the coldness of silence itself, which
        I

                   it
by the bye have sometimes experienced, has quenched

that flame in my breast which was once lighted by the

torch of true and generous friendship and  with these

feelings still subscribe myself your devoted and affec
     I

tionate friend,

                                           " T. S. R.

     CONTINUATION OF EXTRACTS FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS'

                                           JOURNAL.

   " On the 11th of July we made the Scilly Isles, the
announcement of which soon brought all hands on deck.
We quickly approached Falmouth, when several boats

came off to take us on shore, all most exorbitant in their
demands and whilst was arranging some reasonable
bargain, Mr. Raffles agreed to go with the first man who
     ;

                   I

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.  313

made the vessel, giving him his own terms, as a consi
deration for the exertions he made in coming to our assist
ance first. We quickly prepared for the boat, and were
ready about noon, when we took our leave of Captain
Falconer, but not without some expressions of what we
felt, and ever would gratefully acknowledge, for his un
remitting kindness and attention, his great hospitality,
and liberal conduct, during the long time we were on

board his ship. His anxiety to study the comforts, antici

pate the wants, and in every possible way meet the
wishes of Mr. Raffles, had at an early period of the

voyage attracted our admiration ; and his subsequent
 steady adherence thereto, added to his agreeable man
 ners and accommodating disposition, had rendered him a
 favourite with all on board. Not a want was experienced

Iby any during the voyage, and believe no vessel ever

 yet made the trip from India to England under more
 happy or agreeable circumstances than the good ship

 Ganges.
     " On leaving the vessel, Captain Falconer, ever anxious

 to evince his high respect for Mr. Raffles, fired the salute
 due to his rank as a Governor, which was immediately
 repeated by one from the Auspicious, when both ships,
 although with native crews, gave us three hearty cheers,

 Iand am very sure accompanied them with sincere good

 wishes, as we could distinctly hear, in passing the vessels,
 the terms of praise in which they were speaking of Mr.

 Raffles.

                                                               r

314  EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERS' JOURNAL.

   " Our party in the boat consisted of Mr. Raffles, and
his faithful servant Lewis, a native of Malacca, who had

lived with him many years ; Captain Garnham and my
self, aides-de-camp ; Sir Thomas Sevestre, who accom
panied him as his medical attendant ; a Mr. Graham, a
passenger from Batavia, a gentleman well known to us all,
of high respectability, who, during the time of Java being
in our possession, had made a very large fortune by
trading as a merchant in Batavia, and Raden-Rana-
Dipura, a Javanese Chief.

   " The day was beautiful, the sun shining bright, the
sea smooth, being but little agitated by the gentle breezes.
The land, as we approached, had to us the most delight
ful appearance, the fields looking so green, and the coun
try so luxuriant : so that our trip from the ship, though
long, was not tedious, but, on the contrary, most agree
able. We reached shore about four o'clock, when we

were immediately examined by the custom-house officers;
first, as to the state of our health, and next, whether there

was any infection on board the ship, or at the port we had
sailed from. These questions were easily answered, but
methought the officer seemed rather doubtful as to the
positive assurances our mouths were giving, in direct op
position to the strong evidence of our cheeks, which, with
the exception of Captain Garnham s, were of the most
pale and emaciated cast : however, we got through the
examination, and were permitted to land, and afterwards
had a hearty laugh on communicating to each other our

EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERs' JOURNAL.  315

fears and apprehensions at the examination, which we
were in no way prepared to meet or expect. We had not,
however, yet done with examination, for we had no sooner
landed than our baggage was taken to the Custom-house :

but this took little time, as Ave had only a small trunk
each, and nothing seizable about us, Mr. Raffles having

strongly recommended us, and indeed given us the ex
ample himself, of putting every article, even of the smallest
value, into the ship's manifest.

   " After these several delays we proceeded to the inn,

where we ordered the best dinner procurable at the place,

to be got ready as quickly as possible, and passed a most

joyous, agreeable evening.
    " Having seen all we wished of Falmouth before dinner,

we determined on going early to Truro next morning, and
reached there to breakfast at nine, Mr. Raffles being
anxious to avail himself of the opportunity, whilst in
Cornwall, of viewing some of the mines, and inquiring
into the nature of the ores, for the purpose of comparing
them with the products of those which, under his direc
tions, when in the government of Java, had been brought
into full power and force at Banca.

    " Immediately after breakfast Mr. Raffles had an inter
view with a gentleman at Truro, who was well acquainted
with mining business. He seemed a sensible, intelligent,
well-informed gentleman, and afforded Mr. Raffles much
useful and satisfactory information. After some delay at

Truro, employed as I have mentioned, we proceeded to

316  EXTRACT FROM CAPTAIN TRAVERs' JOURNAL.

Welbesy, distant from Truro about five miles, close to
Chesswater, where we were informed one of the best

copper-mines was to be seen, and here we were much
pleased with all we saw. The gentleman to whom we had
been introduced at Truro accompanied Mr. Raffles, with
the view of rendering every assistance in his power, and
was very kind and useful.

   " The appearance and working of this mine astonished
us, and the wonderful power of the steam-engine was no
less a novelty. Mr. Raffles, Captain Garnham, and Sir

Thomas Sevestre went down, which I was afraid to do,

not being very strong at the time ; but nothing could dis
suade Mr. Raffles from descending, although, in his then
delicate state of health, we were most anxious to prevent
him from doing so; but his reply was, that he never

would forgive himself if he were to lose such an oppor

tunity, and accordingly he went down and made himself
quite master of the whole routine, and did not seem to
suffer in the least.

   " From what he had seen at Falmouth, Truro, and
Welbesy, of the different specimens of the ores, he ap
peared quite confirmed in his original opinion of the supe
riority of the Japan ore .

   " We experienced the greatest possible civility and
attention during the time we were inspecting this mine,
and Mr. Raffles was greatly pleased with the anxiety and
willingness evinced to afford him information on every
point connected with mining in all its branches."

MR. RAFFLES' ARRIVAL IN LONDON.  317

   Mr. Raffles reached London on the 16th of July, 1816,

and the next morning he announced his arrival at the

East India House. He looked with the greatest con
fidence to the Court of Directors for ample justice, when
they were in possession of the facts of his case. The
serenity of his temper, the buoyancy of his spirit, and the
joyous feeling of returning health, absorbed the recollec
tion of past misery and disappointment, in bright antici
pations of future reward and happiness.

                  CHAPTER X.

Mr. Raffles appeals to the Court of Directors-- Writes his History
   of Java-- Princess Charlotte-- Visits the Continent -- Meditates
   the establishment of a Society on the principle of the Jardin des

 " Plantes--Is appointed Lieutenant-Governor of Bencoolen and its
  dependencies-- Embarks for India --Death of Princess Charlotte--
   Arrival in Sumatra-- Description of the Settlement -- Dispute with
   the Dutch Government --Earthquakes-- State of Bencoolen-- His
   habits of intercourse with the Natives.

As soon as Mr. Raffles reached London he addressed the
Court of Directors. He had laboured for ten years with
unwearied zeal to promote their best interests, and he
therefore claimed a revision of his services.

   Mr. Raffles' health was so much impaired by his resi
dence in India, that his friends strongly urged the neces
sity of his relinquishing all thoughts of returning to that
country, but to this advice it was unfortunately not in his
power to attend ; previously to leaving England, however,
he was anxious to record the information which he had
collected regarding Java. The island had been trans
ferred by the English Government in total ignorance of
its value to the Dutch. The presence of Mr. Raffles in
England created an interest in the subject as far as his
personal influence extended. To diffuse this interest

WRITES HIS HISTORY OF JAVA.  319

more generally, and to make the country sensible of the
loss sustained by the relinquishment of so flourishing a
colony to a foreign and a rival power, he determined to
write his History of Java, which he completed with his

usual quickness. A few sheets were rapidly written off

every morning for the printer, and corrected at night on

his return from his dinner engagements. It was com

menced in the month of October, 1816, and published in

May, 1817*. It was at this time that Mr. Raffles was

presented to the Prince Regent, and received the honour
of Knighthood.

   During this period Sir Stamford enjoyed the pleasures
of society with a zest which may well be imagined, when
the vigour of his mind and the variety of his tastes are
considered. He left England, indeed, at an age when he
had no opportunity of judging of the attractions of its
best society ; but whilst he was occupied in his public
duties in the East, he seized eagerly every opportunity to
gratify his thirst of knowledge, and to improve the talents
with which God had blessed him : he, therefore, in every
station surrounded himself with all of every class from
whom he could derive information ; and he returned to

England with talents ripened, and with a taste formed
for all the intellectual enjoyments of life. During the

fifteen months which he thus passed he had the happiness
to obtain the friendship of many, whose sympathy in after

  J.* Early in this year Mr. Raffles married Sophia, daughter of W.

Hull, Esq., of the county of Down, Ireland.

320 VISITS THE CONTINENT.

scenes of anxiety and sorrow, with which it pleased God to
visit him, proved a source of comfort and consolation. He
had also the high gratification of being one of those whom
their Royal Highnesses Princess Charlotte and Prince
Leopold honoured with proofs of regard. He was a fre
quent guest at Claremont. His last dinner before he set
out on his expedition was there ; and the ring which on
that day the Princess gave to him, was the gift which,
of all such gifts, he prized most.

   In the month of June Sir Stamford Raffles visited the
Continent for the purpose of obtaining an interview with
the King of Holland, and making some representations to
his Majesty in behalf of the native and some of the Dutch
inhabitants of Java. --The following letters give an ac
count of this tour.

               TO HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                     "Brussels, July 14th, 1817.

   " You will have had cause to call me a very bad corre

Ispondent: have neither kept my word nor kept my

journal ; and as it is now too late to attempt bringing up

Iarrears, must hasten back to London, and make the best
apology I can, and trust to my personal influence for for

giveness.

  I" send you, within, a ' Forget-me-Not,' or, as the Swiss

call Rose ne moubliez pas,' from the Alps.
   " Your Grace will expect that should say something

of the countries have passed through, and yet what can
i't,

           I
                           I

         VISITS THE CONTINENT.     321

you expect from one who knows so little of the European

world, and is scarcely in one place before he flies to another.

Of France you have so many accounts that it would be

presumptuous in me to offer an opinion ; of Switzerland and

the Alps your Grace knows every thing ; and to attempt to

extol the banks of the Rhine, or the fertility of Belgium,

would be like giving you an account of the banks of the

Thames and the fields of England. I was certainly sur

prised and delighted with the appearance of agriculture in

France, not that the fields were as highly cultivated as in

England, nor that any thing like an advanced state of

Iagriculture was to be seen.  was pleased to observe two

things, which I know are highly condemned by agricul

turists, the smallness of the properties, and the cultivation

of the fruit-trees in the grain and hay-fields. Agricul

turists maintain that capital is essential to improvement ;

that when the properties are so small there can be no

Icapital ; this grant to be good diction where the soil is

poor and requires much improvement, but when it is rich,

and wants little or no improvement, capital is unnecessary.

For the greatness of a country it may be an object that

the greatest possible quantity of produce should be brought

to market ; and those who are for raising a nation main

tain that this can only be effected by large farms and the

outlay of capital. The philanthropist, however, and even

the philosopher, will hesitate before he sacrifices every

thing to the greatness of the nation ; unless its happiness

goes hand in hand with its greatness, he will think the

VOL. I.                         Y

322  VISITS THE CONTINENT.

Ilatter but of little value. Now when see every man cul
Itivating his own field, cannot but think him happier far

than when he is cultivating the field of another ; even if

he labours more, that labour is still lighter which is his

pride and pleasure, than that which is his burden and

sorrow. In France there seems to be so much good land

that it can be hardly managed amiss, and in the provinces

Ithrough which passed it struck me that the crops were
Ifull as good as those which have seen in England.

Throw the people out of these little properties, and they
lose their independence of character, their pride ; and
when only accustomed to daily wages are soon fitted for
the army, the manufactory, or the poor-house. But you
will say how is it that in France, where the government is

so despotic, that the people are happier than in England ?
Many causes may have contributed to the present state of
agriculture in France ; the revolution abolished the feudal

rights and service, with ten thousand vexations under
which it had previously laboured ; and the land in general
fell into the hands of the actual cultivators, and the people

who were seen to cultivate it with so much pleasure. It

did not suit Buonaparte's policy to grind the peasant:

from the lower class he wanted men and took them, but

this only left the more for those who remained ; it was
from the rich that he took money, and the demands of his
government gave employment to all; all the energies of
France were exerted at his command : but however

dearly it cost his subjects to maintain his authority, the

VISITS THE CONTINENT.  323

burden seems to have fallen so lightly on the agriculturist

that he even benefited by it.

  I" like to see fruit-trees growing among the corn, be

cause it not only affords a refreshing and beautiful scenery,

but because it reminds me of those patriarchal times, those

days of simplicity, when the son and the grandson, and

even the great grandson, honoured the trees that their

forefathers planted.

I" Upon the whole,    cannot but think that, notwith

standing agriculture as a science may be almost unknown

in France, and that France as a nation has been greatly

impoverished both in men and money, there is a foundation

in the present state of her land and peasantry to support

a much greater nation than France ever yet was : all now

******depends upon the wisdom of their government and the

fortune of her politics. So much for the agriculture of
France.
   " Switzerland seems to have felt the weight of French
influence, and is certainly very different to what it is re

presented to have been some twenty years ago ; but the
valley of Chamouni, the Alps are the same ; that troubled
sea which seems to have been in a moment stayed and
fettered by an icy hand, still shines in all its majesty ; nor
has all the vice nor all the blood which has stained the

lower world cast one spot to sully the heavenly purity of
Mont Blanc.

   " The Rhine, with its hundred castles which line the

                                                                               y2

324  LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

heights along its banks, still flow in its ancient course, to

******delight the traveller, enrich the land, and spur the in

dustry of man.

  " Of this place, and its politics, I have seen but little."

   Sir Stamford Raffles reached London from Holland on
the 26th of July, and on the following day he wrote to his
friend

                     MR. MARSDEN.

     " My dear Sir,  " Berners Street, July 27th, 1817.

          " I have the pleasure to inclose you a letter from

IMr. Langles, which relates, believe, principally to a copy

of Marco Polo in the Royal Library, that he conceives

may be useful for you to refer to.
   " We arrived yesterday evening, after a very pleasant

tour of seven weeks, having crossed France from Dieppe

through Rouen, Paris, and Dijon, to Geneva ; passed

through the valley of Chamouni, along the foot of the

Alps, and returned by Lausanne and Berne to Basle and
down the Rhine to Cologne, whence we traversed the Low

Countries to Brussels and Ostend. We had fine weather

throughout, and met with neither delay nor difficulty to

render the journey unpleasant. At Paris and Brussels

we remained from eight to ten days, which enabled us to

see all the lions; to have seen more would have taken

months, and these I could not spare.

ESTABLISHES THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.       325

   I·' met with very great attention in the Netherlands,
and had the honour to dine with the King last Monday :

they were very communicative regarding their eastern

Icolonies ; but regret to say that, notwithstanding the

King himself, and his leading minister, seem to mean

well, they have too great a hankering after profit, and

immediate profit, for any liberal system to thrive under

them.
              ******

I" We shall remain in town about three weeks, and hope

to embark in September.

                         "Yours, &C. &C.

                         " T. S. R."

   The period was now approaching when it became neces

sary to make the requisite arrangements for returning to
India. Sir Stamford was incessantly occupied in scientific
and literary inquiries, and formed his plans for still further
contributing to the valuable and interesting collections

he had sent home from the Eastern Islands. At this
time he meditated the establishment of a Society on the
principle of the Jardin des Plantes at Paris, which finally,
on his last return from the East, he succeeded in forming,
in 1826, under the title of the Zoological Society of London.
He was also deeply engaged in the duties and pleasures
of private friendship. He visited Liverpool, Manchester,
the Lakes of Westmoreland, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin,

and Wales ; travelling, with his usual speed, sixteen hours
in the day.

326 EMBARKS FOR INDIA.

   In October, 1817, Sir Stamford, with his family, em
barked for Bencoolen at Portsmouth, on board "The
Lady Raffles." The Court of Directors, " in consideration
of the zeal and talents displayed during the period he
filled the office of Lieutenant-Governor of Java, conferred
upon him the title of Lieutenant-Governor of Bencoolen,
as a peculiar mark of the favourable sentiments which the
Court entertained of his merits and services."

   The following are extracts of letters written to the
Duchess of Somerset.

                                                                   " October 13th, 1817.
    " Oh ! that this leave-taking was at an end ; my heart

is sad, and yet what avails it to repine ? I must go, and
Ithe sooner am off the better. My house is filled with

those who are all determined to say good-bye, and make
me more miserable when it requires all my fortitude to
keep my spirits calm and uniform."

                                                      " Falmouth, October 29th.
   " We had a fair wind down the channel, but had hardly

got to the Land's End when a heavy gale came on from

the westward with a tremendous sea : this we stemmed
for three days, but at last finding we were losing ground,
and every one being tired out, some with severe sickness,
others with severe duty, we were compelled to seek shelter
in this friendly port. Lady Raffles has suffered severely
from the motion of the ship, and for the last four days
refused every kind of nourishment, even a glass of cold

                 EMBARKS FOR INDIA.     327

water, so that I cannot help thinking it fortunate we have

Ian opportunity of recruiting her. Often, very often,

might say always, do we regret it is Falmouth and not

Plymouth : we might then have hoped once more to have

said good-bye !  *  *  *             *

  I" am going into the country to descend a tin-mine,
Iand hope to be quite learned in the mineralogy of

Cornwall."

                                            " Falmouth, November 6th, 1817.

  " Last night I was gratified by the receipt of your kind

*****letters : this morning we are greeted with a fair wind, and

summoned to embark within half an hour. God grant
we may be fairly off! --as we must go --the sooner the

better."
                                                                  " November 7th.

  " We sailed yesterday, and by the pilot I sent a few

hurried lines --to say farewell-- but alas ! the wind soon

after changed, and we are again driven into port. We

were obliged to run in quickly, otherwise we should have

IIbeen driven back to Plymouth.
                       cannot say should

have regretted this, but it would have been a very bad

way of commencing a voyage.
   " How long we may remain here seems uncertain : the

wind now blows what the sailors call ' great guns,' and

perhaps it will expend its fury, and change about to a

more favourable quarter.
   " We are now detained on board on account of the

 32S EMBARKS FOR INDIA.

 violence of the wind, but we hope to have a boat off in the
 evening."

 *****" Falmouth, November 9th.

    " We landed this morning, and if the wind-continues

 equally unfavourable to-morrow, we have it in contempla
 tion to set off post for Plymouth.

    " What a melancholy and unexpected event has oc

Icurred ! It has shocked me beyond measure -- dare not

 dwell upon its."

                                                     " Off Falmouth, November 19th.

    " Once more we are off, and as we must go, God grant
it may be for good ! We left Plymouth after sunset
yesterday, travelled all night, and are now many miles
from Falmouth on our watery way.

   I" And now, then, must say good-bye in earnest, for

the wind is decidedly fair, and promises to continue so."

                                                 " At Sea, December 1st, 1817.
    " The die is now cast, and we are at last fairly off.
We have just weathered the Bay of Biscay, and hope, in
the course of next week, to reach Madeira. We are at

   * The reader has already supplied the event,- -- the death of Her
Royal Highness Princess Charlotte. The kindness which Sir Stam
ford received from this noble-minded Princess, and from His Royal
Highness Prince Leopold, was returned by him with the most devoted
attachment. Those who remember the universal feeling of grief,
when the whole nation was humbled under this calamity, will not
wonder that Sir Stamford mourned her early and unexpected death

with far more than a subject's sorrow.

EMBARKS FOR INDIA.  329

present harassed by contrary winds, but the weather is
fine, and we are already sensible of a warmer climate.
Lady Raffles has suffered very much, and has not yet left
her couch.

   " The concerns of our little community are of too
monotonous a nature to deserve detail, and as yet the
heavens and the ocean have been our only prospect from
without. You will be glad, however, to hear that all the
individuals of the ark are well and thriving. The cows,
dogs, cats, birds, the latter singing around me, and my
nursery of plants thriving beyond all expectation : the
thermometer is at 76°. What a waste of waters now lies
between us, and yet the distance daily widens, and will
widen still until half the world divides us."

   It is by many considered impossible to occupy the mind

and time steadily and usefully under all the discomforts
and disadvantages of a sea voyage ; but Sir Stamford

never relaxed his occupations--he regularly devoted his
mornings to study --and only allowed a small portion of
the day to be occupied in the idle exercise of walking on
the deck. He spent most of his time in the retirement of
his cabin--read and wrote on serious subjects till the

evening, when he read aloud some books of poetry or

light works ; and thus, though never well at sea, he had

the satisfaction of feeling that the time, if not agreeably,

was not unprofitably spent.

   The passage was long and tedious --five months without

330  ARRIVAL AT BENCOOLEN.

any object to vary the scene, relieve the eye, or divert the

mind from the contemplation of what has been compared

to one great monotonous idea.  " The Lady Raffles"

reached Bencoolen, without touching at any port, on the

22nd of March, 1818.

Sir Stamford found the settlement in a state of great

confusion ; the Government-houses were deserted ; there

was no accommodation for any of the party, and he was

obliged to put his family into a habitation which was so

impaired by the shocks of earthquakes, that the inhabit
ants would not trust themselves in it. His letters to his

friends describe his feelings on his first arrival.

     TO WILLIAM MARSDEN, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,                       Bencoolen, April 7, 1818.
                      to advise you of our safe arrival
  I" have only time

here.

   " We had a very tedious passage of more than four
months, exclusive of our detention at Falmouth. Lady

Baffles presented me with a beautiful little girl, when to
the southward of the Cape : fortunately we had moderate

and fine weather, and both mother and child did wonder

fully well ; neither of them suffered from the privations
attending a protracted voyage. At the suggestion of the

Radin*, my daughter has received the name of Tunjong

   * Raden-Rana-Dipura, a Javanese Chief, who had accompanied Sir
Stamford to England.

                   BENCOOLEN.      331

Segara (the Lily of the Sea), in addition to those of

Charlotte Sophia.

" This is, without exception, the most wretched place I

Iever beheld.  cannot convey to you an adequate idea of

the state of ruin and dilapidation which surrounds me.

What with natural impediments, bad government, and
the awful visitations of Providence which we have re

cently experienced, in repeated earthquakes, we have

scarcely a dwelling in which to lay our heads, or where
withal to satisfy the cravings of nature. The roads are

impassable ; the highways in the town overrun with rank
grass ; the Government-house a den of ravenous dogs and

polecats. The natives say that Bencoolen is now a tana

Imati (dead land). In truth, could never have conceived

any thing half so bad. We will try and make it better ;

and if I am well supported from home, the west coast may

yet be turned to account. You must, however, be pre
pared for the abolition of slavery ; the emancipation of
the country people from the forced cultivation of pepper ;

the discontinuance of the gaming and cock-fighting farms,

and a thousand other practices equally disgraceful and

repugnant to the British character and government. A

complete and thorough reform is indispensable, and re

ductions must be made throughout.

I" As soon as      have effected some essential changes

Ihere, mean to go to Croee by land, afterwards to Pa-

Idang ; from the latter place shall go by sea to Tappa-

nooly, and thence most probably to Acheen, where there

332        LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

will be much to do. I must not omit to tell you that it is

my intention to visit Menangkabu from Padang. Mr.

Holloway seems half afraid, but, nolens volens, as he is

Resident, he must accompany me.

  I" am already at issue with the Dutch Government

about their boundaries in the Lampoon country. They

insist on packing us up close to Billimbing, on the west

coast. I demand an anchorage in Simangka Bay, and lay

Ifclaim to Simangka itself.  we obtain this, we shall have

a convenient place for our China ships to water; and

should we go no farther within the Archipelago, be able

to set up our shop next door to the Dutch. It would not,

I think, be many years before my station in the Straits of

IfSunda would rival Batavia as a commercial entrepot.  I

Ihave time, you shall have copies of my despatches, and

hope to have your support with Mr. Canning on this

point. You will at once see the immense importance of

Iwhat am standing out for, both for this coast and our

interest generally.

   " We are beginning to make ourselves comfortable--

happy we always are. Our kindest regards to Mrs.

Marsden."

                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

  *****Fort Marlborough, April Sih, 1818.

   " What an age has passed ! what a distance are we
apart ! fifteen thousand miles on the opposite sides of the
world!

EARTHQUAKES AT BENCOOLEN.  333

   " In my last I gave you a dry detail of our voyage. My

arrival was not hailed by the most auspicious of omens,
for the day previous to it a violent earthquake had nearly
destroyed every building in the place, and the first com

Imunication which received from the shore was, that both

Government-houses were rendered useless and uninhabit

able. These earthquakes are said to occur every five or
six years, and they have now lasted from the 18th of the
last month up to the present period, the shocks occurring
within short intervals twice or thrice a day. The most
violent shock happened on the 18th, before our arrival : it
occurred during the night, and, by the accounts given, it
must have been truly awful. Every building has suffered
more or less ; some are quite ruins, others hardly deserv

ing repair : the house which I now occupy is rent from top

to bottom, there is not a room without a crack of some

feet long and several inches wide ; the cornices broken and
every thing unhinged; from some houses many cart- loads
of rubbish have been cleared away, and still they are
inhabited, notwithstanding they rock to and fro with

every breeze.

   " This you will say is but a bad beginning for my
Eastern Empire, but as we are not inclined to make diffi

culties, or murmur against Providence, we shall, I have

no doubt, contrive to make ourselves very happy. The
earthquake might have been worse, for in the accounts of
a shock felt on this coast in 1797, it is stated that the

vibratory shocks continued for three minutes, and re

334  EARTHQUAKES AT BENCOOLEN.

curred at intervals during the space of three hours, till
the shock completely ceased. At Padang, the houses of

the inhabitants were almost entirely destroyed, and the

public works much damaged. A vessel lying at anchor

was thrown by the sudden rise of the tide upwards of

three miles on shore. The number of lives lost there

amounted to above three hundred ; of these some were

crushed under the ruins of falling houses, some were lite

rally entombed alive by the earth closing upon them,

and others were drowned by the sudden irruption of
the waters of the ocean. But, after all, this is nothing
to our Java volcanoes : there is nothing here half so

Igrand and magnificent; and from what have seen of
Sumatra, I would not give one Java for a thousand such

islands.

  I" have been here so short a time, and have had so
little opportunity of looking about, that I have not much

to say of the farther East.

  I" am now preparing for a tour overland to the

Southern Residencies, as far as the straits of Sunda,

*****and on my return shall go northward as far as Acheen,

and inland to Pageruyung or Menangkabu, the capital
of the Malays."
   It may be inferred, even from these short extracts, that

Sir Stamford found sufficient occupation for his active
mind. He devoted his whole time, on his first arrival, to
the examination of the Records of the settlement, the

POPULARITY OF SIR STAMFORD RAFFLES.  335

state of the country and people in its immediate neigh
bourhood, and endeavoured to collect the European in
habitants and the native Chiefs around him, that he might
become personally acquainted with their habits and man
ners. The same system of excluding the natives from the
society of Europeans had been pursued in this settlement
as in most other parts of India. Sir Stamford at once
broke down this barrier, and opened his house to the
higher class of natives on all occasions. During the whole
period of his residence in Sumatra he had some of them
present during the hours of social intercourse.

    The result of this change it is needless to dwell upon.
The Chiefs and people considered him as their best friend
and adviser, yielded to his opinion upon all occasions, and
harmony and good-will prevailed throughout the settle

ment.

   With regard to the Dutch, so active had they been in
their endeavours to regain their Empire in the East, and
to depress the native power, that the re-appearance of Sir
 Stamford in the Archipelago was hailed with joy and

 hope on the one side, as a deliverance, and with fear and
jealousy on the other, as an invasion.

    The effect of his return to a scene of action in which

 he had borne so conspicuous a part might have been

foreseen. It was impossible to expect tame submission

 from those who were oppressed, when there appeared a
 hope of relief, or to suppose that Sir Stamford could
 with indifference look on, and take no part in the

336  POPULARITY OF SIR STAMFORD RAFFLES.

struggle. A different character might have acted dif

ferently ; but in sending him into such a field of action,
the experience of his government in Java was sufficient
evidence of what was to be expected from the Governor
of Bencoolen.

         CHAPTER XI.

Sir Stamford Raffles determines to penetrate into the interior of the
  country--First excursion to the Hill of Mists --Account of jour
  ney to Passumah -- Discovery of gigantic flower -- Vegetation of
  Malayan forests -- Reason for visiting Passumah -- Ceremony of a
  funeral -- Traces of ancient Hindu mythology --Description of the
  people-- Small-pox --Fatigue of the journey--Descends in rafts --
  Return to Mama -- Proceeds to Cawoor -- Success of first at
   tempt to cross the Island of Sumatra--Extract from Mr. Pres-
  grave's Journal-- Description of the sacred mountain -- Disap
  pointment in not reaching the crater-- Return to Manna --Moun
   tain's temperature -- Large lake -- Sufferings of the people for want
   of salt, prohibited by the Dutch Government -- People of Pasumah
   Lebar -- Descendants of the Javanese -- Villages -- Language --

   Religion.

Sir Stamford considered it to be his duty, as it was his

inclination, to obtain some general knowledge of the

island, as well as of that particular portion of it over

which he was appointed to preside. The East India

Company, indeed, had confined their rule to a narrow

strip of sea- coast, but it was desirable that some inter

course should take place with the people of the country

beyond, since a mutual exchange of good offices would, it

was natural to suppose, prove beneficial to both parties.

  A general impression prevailed, that it was impossible

to penetrate the range of hills which run from north to

VOL. I.               I

338  LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

south throughout this great island. All those who were

applied to declined making the attempt ; and Sir Stam
ford was obliged to come to the determination, that he
would go himself, and visit the interior and more fertile

parts.

   His first excursion was a short distance immediately
inland from Bencoolen. The second down the coast by

the sea-beach, for about eighty miles, to Manna, and from
thence, some days' journey into the interior ; and after
returning to Manna, still further down the coast, to
Cawoor ; from this last place back to Bencoolen.

   He gave an account of these excursions to his friends
in letters, written at the time, from which the following
are a selection :--

     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                 " On board the Lady Raffles, off Sumatra,
                                 July 11th, 1818.

" That your Grace may not think me unmindful of my

Ipromise, must now send you some account of our pro

Iceedings since  troubled you with my letters by the

Northumberland.

  I" will not, however, trouble your Grace with any de

tails of the immediate changes which have been effected

at Bencoolen, nor with what are in contemplation; the

place is too insignificant for general interest, and my sub

jects too uncultivated for pleasing description. A wider

field is open in the Archipelago generally, and in my pro

FIRST EXCURSION TO THE HILL OF MISTS.  339

ceedings with the Dutch your Grace might find more

Iamusement ; but even on these  shall be silent at pre

sent, and proceed to what more immediately relates to

me personally.

  I" At the time wrote by the Northumberland, we had

just taken up our abode in a crazy dwelling, called the

Government-house, full of cracks and fissures : of the

Icountry had seen nothing, and of the general character

and condition of the people I then knew little. My first

incursion into the interior was immediately east of Ben-

Icoolen ; here found the country in a wretched state, and

Ivery thinly peopled.  ascended the first range of hills,

and having taken up a position on the Hill of Mists

(Bukit Kabut), which commands a most extensive view

of the surrounding country, and on which no European

Ihad before set foot, determined to make it our country

residence, and accordingly gave orders for clearing the

Iforest, &c. In this have already made considerable pro

gress ; a comfortable cottage is erected, and, as far as we

can yet judge, the thermometer is at least six degrees

lower than at Bencoolen. The only inconvenience will

arise from the tigers and elephants, which abound in the

vicinity. One of the villagers told me that his father and

grandfather were carried off by tigers, and there is scarcely

a family that has not lost some of its members by them.

In many parts the people would seem to have resigned

the empire to these animals, taking but few precautions

against them, and regarding them as sacred ; they believe

                                                       z2

340  TOUR THROUGH THE SOUTHERN RESIDENCIES.

in transmigration and call them their nene, or grandfather.
On the banks of one of the rivers of this coast upwards of

a hundred people were carried off by tigers during the
last year. When a tiger enters a village, the foolish
people frequently prepare rice and fruits, and placing
them at the entrance as an offering to the animal, conceive
that, by giving him this hospitable reception, he will be
pleased with their attention, and pass on without doing
them harm. They do the same on the approach of the

small-pox, and thus endeavour to lay the evil spirit by

kind and hospitable treatment. I am doing all I can to

resume the empire of man, and, having made open war

Iagainst the whole race of wild and ferocious animals, hope

we shall be able to reside on the Hill of Mists without

danger from their attacks.
   " Our next excursion was on a tour through the southern

Residencies, in which Lady Raffles accompanied me. We

were absent about three weeks, and visited the districts of

Salumah, Manna, and Cawoor, which your Grace will see
noticed in the map. Our road lay principally along the
sea-beach, and mostly on the sands. From Manna, how
ever, we penetrated into the interior, and visited the Pas-
sumah country ; and, as our journey was very interesting,

I shall give you a more particular account of it.

    " We left Manna on the morning of the 19th of May,
and proceeded on horseback as far as the village of Tan-
jung Agung, on the Manna river, where we halted during
the middle of the day ; the distance about twenty miles.

ACCOUNT OF A JOURNEY TO PASSUMAH.  341

In the afternoon we walked through the woods to a place
called Merambung, about ten miles further up. The

road, a mere pathway, very steep in many parts, and not
passable on horseback. We remarked at Merambung
that the houses were larger and much better constructed
than on the coast, and that, in the middle of the village,
there was an erection resembling a pigeon-house. This

was termed a Lang'gar, or place appropriated to penance,
in which the party remained during the time. As this is
inconsistent with Mahomedanism, we concluded it to be a

remnant of the more ancient faith of the country, --a con

clusion we . found fully confirmed from what we subse
quently observed further in the interior. The villagers
were very hospitable, and my reception by the Chief was
truly patriarchal.

   " On the next morning (the 20th), at half-past five, we
commenced our journey towards Passumah on foot; the
party, consisting of myself, Lady Raffles, Dr. Arnold, and
Mr. Presgrave, the Resident of Manna, with six native
officers, and about fifty coolies (porters) carrying our food
and baggage. Our journey lay near the banks of the
river during the whole day, but frequently over high cliffs,
and almost entirely through thick forests. On approaching
Lebu Tappu, where a village had once stood, we first fell
in with the tracts of elephants ; they were very numerous,
and it was evident they had only preceded us a short
time, We here passed over much ground, which at one

342  ACCOUNT OF A JOURNEY TO PASSUMAH.

period must have been in cultivation, but which had long
been in a state of nature. After breakfasting at Lebu
Tappu, under the shade of the largest tree we could find,
we proceeded on to a place called Pulo Lebar, where it
was arranged we were to sleep. This also had been the
site of a village, but no trace of human dwelling or culti
vation was to be found : we reached it at half- past four in
the afternoon, having walked for upwards of eight hours.
We immediately set to work and erected two or three
sheds to sleep in, collecting the materials from the vegeta
tion around us. The river here was broad, but very
rocky : the scenery highly romantic and beautiful. During
the night we were awakened by the approach of a party
of elephants, who seemed anxious to inquire our business
within their domains : fortunately they kept at some dis
tance, and allowed us to remain unmolested. The natives

fancy that there are two kinds of elephants ; the gaja
berkampong, those which always go in herds, and which
are seldom mischievous, and the gaja salunggal, or single
elephants, which are much larger and ferocious, going

about either singly or only two or three in company. It is

probable the latter kind are only the full-grown males.

  I" must not omit to tell you, that in passing through

the forest we were, much to our inconvenience, greatly
annoyed by leeches ; they got into our boots and shoes,
which became filled with blood ; at night, too, they fell off
the leaves that sheltered us from the weather, and on

w




DESCRIPTION OF A GIGANTIC FLOWER.  343

awaking in the morning we found ourselves bleeding pro

fusely--these were a species of intruders we were not

prepared for.
   " The most important discovery throughout our journey

was made at this place. This was a gigantic flower, of

Iwhich can hardly attempt to give anything like a just

description. It is perhaps the largest and most magnifi

cent flower in the world, and is so distinct from every

I Iother flower, that know not to what can compare it--

its dimensions will astonish you--it measured across from

the extremity of the petals rather more than a yard, the

nectarium was nine inches wide, and as deep ; estimated

to contain a gallon and a half of water, and the weight of

the whole flower fifteen pounds.
    " The Sumatran name of this extraordinary produc

tion is Petimun Sikinlili, or Devil's-Siri (beetle) box. It

 is a native of the forests, particularly those of Passumah
 Ulu Manna.

    " This gigantic flower is parasite on the lower stems

 and roots of the Cissus Angustifolia of Box. It appears

 at first in the form of a small round knob, which gradu

 ally increases in size. The flower-bud is invested by
 numerous membranaceous sheaths, which surround it in

 successive layers and expand as the bud enlarges, until

 at length they form a cup round its base. These sheaths

 or bracts are large, round, concave, of a firm membrana

 ceous consistence, and of a brown colour. The bud before

  expansion is depressive, round, with five obtuse angles,

344 DESCRIPTION OF A GIGANTIC FLOWER.

nearly a foot in diameter, and of a deep dusky red. The

flower, when fully expanded, is, in point of size, the

wonder of the vegetable kingdom ; the breadth across,

from the top of the one petal to the top of the other, is

three feet. The cup may be estimated capable of con

taining twelve pints, and the weight of the whole is from

twelve to fifteen pounds. The inside of the cup is of an

intense purple, and more or less densely yellow, with soft

flexible spines of the same colour : towards the mouth, it

is marked with numerous depressed spots of the purest

white, contrasting strongly with the purple of the sur

rounding substance, which is considerably elevated on the

lower side. The petals are of a brick-red, with numerous

pustular spots of a lighter colour. The whole substance
of the flower is not less than half an inch thick, and of a

firm fleshy consistence. It soon after expansion begins to

give out a smell of decaying animal matter. The fruit

never bursts, but the whole plant gradually rots away,

and the seeds mix with the putrid mass *.

If I" am successful in obtaining a draftsman, your

IGrace shall have a perfect representation of it.  have

made a very rough sketch of it myself, but it is not in

Ithat state that could venture to present it. It seems to

be a flower unknown to most of the natives, as well as to

   * Through the kindness of Mr. Lambert, the Vice-President, the
Editor has obtained permission from the Linncean Society to have
impressions of this singular production, which was engraved for their

Transactions.

VEGETATION OF MALAYAN FORESTS.  345

naturalists ; its colours red, yellow, and purple, and most
brilliant. The chemical composition being fungous, it

would not keep ; and not having sufficient spirits, we

could not preserve it entire. A part of it, with two buds

almost as big as a child's head, will be sent home.
   " There is nothing more striking in the Malayan forests

than the grandeur of the vegetation. The magnitude of

the flowers, creepers, and trees, contrasts strikingly with

Ithe stunted and, had almost said, pigmy vegetation of

England. Compared with our forest-trees, your largest

oak is a mere/ dwarf. Here we have creepers and vines

entwining larger trees, and hanging suspended for more

than a hundred feet, --in girth not less than a man's body,

and many much thicker. The trees seldom under a hun

dred, and generally approaching a hundred and sixty to

two hundred feet in height. One tree that we measured

was, in circumference, nine yards ! and this is nothing to

I Ione measured in Java.  must, however, proceed to

relate our journey.

   " From Pulo Lebar we started at half-past five, and
halted at eight to breakfast. At eleven we reached the

Sindangare' river, where we took some refreshment, and in

the evening, about half-past five, reached Barong Rasam.
The day's journey being most fatiguing, and not less than
thirty miles, entirely through a thick forest, and over

stupendous mountains, one of which, called the Sindangan

Mountain, could not have been less than between four

and five thousand feet high. Neither on this nor on the

346  VEGETATION OF MALAYAN FORESTS.

preceding day was there a vestige of population or culti

vation ; nature was throughout allowed to reign undis
turbed ; and from the traces of elephants in every direc
tion, they alone of the animal kingdom seemed to have
explored the recesses of the forest.

   " We got on, however, very well ; and though we were
all occasionally much fatigued, we did not complain. Lady
Raffles was a perfect heroine. The only misfortune at
this stage was a heavy fall of rain during the night, which

penetrated our leafy dwelling in every direction, and
soaked every one of the party to the skin. We were now
two days' march beyond the reach of supplies ; many of
our Coolies had dropped off ; some were fairly exhausted,
and we began to wish our journey at an end. We, how
ever, contrived to make a good dinner on the remaining
fowl, and having plenty of rice and claret, did not com
plain of our fare.

   " On the next morning we started in better spirits,
having been met by one of the Chiefs of Passumah, who

came to welcome our approach, and to assure us, if we

walked fast, we should reach a village in the afternoon.

For the first part of the day our road was still over
stupendous mountains, sometimes in the beds of rivers

for miles, and at all times difficult ; but, about noon, we

came into a country that had once been cleared, and again
fell in with the Manna River, which we crossed on a raft
previously prepared for the purpose, many of the Chiefs
and people of Passumah having assembled to meet us.

REASONS FOR VISITING PASSUMAH.                   347

We had still, however, a very steep ascent to encounter ;
but no sooner had we attained the summit, and bent our

steps downward, than our view opened upon one of the

Ifinest countries ever beheld, amply compensating us for

all the dreariness of the forest, and for all the fatigues we

   had undergone ; perhaps the prospect was heightened by

I- the contrast ; but the country now beheld reminded me

  so much of scenes in Java, and was in every respect so

  Idifferent to that on the coast, that could not help ex

pressing myself in raptures. As we descended, the scene

improved; we found ourselves in an immense amphi

theatre, surrounded by mountains ten and twelve thou

sand feet high ; the soil on which we stood rich beyond

description, and vegetation luxuriant and brilliant in

every direction. The people, too, seemed a new race, far
superior to those on the coast --tall, stout, and ingenuous.

They received us most hospitably, and conducted us to

the village of Nigri-Cayu, where we slept.

  I" should not omit to inform you, that the immediate

occasion of my visiting Passumah was to reconcile con

tending interests which had long distracted the country.

For the last ten years these people had been at war with

us, or rather we had been at war with them, for we ap

Ipeared to have been the aggressors throughout.  was

assured that my person would be endangered, that the

Passumahs were a savage ungovernable race, and that no

Iterms could ever be made with them, and was not a little

gratified to find everything the reverse of what had been

348 CEREMONY OF A FUNERAL.

Irepresented to me.  found them reasonable and indus

trious, --an agricultural race more sinned against than

sinning.

   " In the vicinity of Nigri-Cayu were several hot springs,

and we soon succeeded in making very comfortable warm

baths.

   " On the next day we proceeded to Tanjung Alem (the

point of the world), another village in the Passumah
country, which we reached in about six hours' walk,
through one of the finest countries in the world, having
before us, nearly the whole way, the volcanic mountain

called Gunung Dempu, from which the smoke issued in

large volumes.                                We

   " At Tanjung Alem we remained two nights.

found the villages in this part of the country most re

spectable, many of them having more than five hundred

inhabitants ; the houses large, and on a different plan to

those on the coast, each village, which may rather be con

sidered as a small town, has a fosse or ditch round it with

high palisades. We passed the site of two or three towns

which were represented to have been destroyed by the

petty hostilities between the Chiefs.

   " During our stay at Tanjung Alem, the Chiefs entered

into a treaty, by which they placed themselves under the

protection of the British Government, and thus all cause
of dispute and misunderstanding was at once set at rest.

I must also note another occurrence of moment : an old

woman of rank died, and we witnessed all the ceremonies.

CEREMONY OF A FUNERAL.  349

They commenced by all the females of the village repairing

to the house of the deceased, and setting up a squall, some

thing like the Irish howl, for an hour or two. After this

the body was removed to the Bali, or hall of audience,

where we were to dine ; we, however, preferred dining in

another place, but in the evening it was expected that we

should be present at the ceremony, which consisted of

dancing and singing, in the presence of the whole village,

assembled in the hall where the body lay. On the next

morning the head of the village killed a goat, and sprinkled

the blood about the house of the deceased, and all the

maidens within hail attended at the Bali, contending with
each other who should exclaim loudest, ' Oh mother ! come

back, mother come back !' This continued till they con

cluded the body would keep no longer, when it was hurried

off, and quietly carried out of the village to a grave, in

which it was interred without further ceremony.
   " The people, though professedly Mahomedans, seemed

more attached to their ancient worship and superstitions

I Ithan expected.  clearly traced an ancient mythology,

and obtained the names of at least twenty gods, several of
whom are Hindus. In each of the villages we found a

Lang' gar, similar to that noticed at Merambung, but gene

rally better constructed.
   " The utmost good-humour and affection seemed to

exist among the people of the village : they were as one

family, the men walking about holding each other by the

hand, and playing tricks with each other like children.

350  RETURN TO BKNCOOLEN.

IThey were as fine a race as ever beheld; in general

about six feet high, and proportionably stout, clear and

clean skins, and an open ingenuous countenance. They

seemed to have abundance of everything ; rice, the staple
food of the country, being five times as cheap as at Ben-

coolen, and every other article of produce in proportion.
The women and children were decorated with a profusion
of silver ornaments, and particularly with strings of dol

lars and other coins hanging two or three deep round the

neck. It was not uncommon to see a child with a hundred

dollars round her neck. Every one seemed anxious for

medicine, and they cheerfully agreed to be vaccinated.
The small-pox had latterly committed great ravages, and

the population of whole villages had fled into the woods

to avoid the contagion.
   " We now thought of returning to the coast, and on the

24th set off for Manna by a different route to that by which

we had arrived. Our first day's journey was to Camu-

muan, which we reached a little before six in the evening,

Iafter the hardest day's walk ever experienced.  We cal

culated that we had walked more than thirty miles, and

over the worst of roads. Hitherto we had been fortunate

in our weather ; but before we reached this place, a heavy

rain came on, and soaked us completely. The baggage

only came up in part, and we were content to sleep in our
wet clothes, under the best shade we could find. No
wood would burn ; there was no moon ; it was already dark,

and we had no shelter erected. By perseverance, how

RETURN TO BENCOOLEN.  351

Iever, made a tolerable place for Lady Raffles, and after
Iselecting the smoothest stone could find in the bed of a

river for a pillow, we managed to pass a tolerably com

fortable night. This is what is here called the Ulu Pino

Road ; and we were encouraged to undertake long marches
in the hope of only sleeping in the woods one night, and in
this we fortunately succeeded."

   This was, perhaps, the worst day's journey that the
party experienced. The route was very imperfectly known,
and a heavy rain rendered the forest dreary, and the
walk more than usually irksome. Sir Stamford and Dr.
Arnold took the only guide, and hastened forward in the

hope of reaching the river, and preparing a fire. It was

soon discovered that the remainder of the party had lost
their way ; the people dispersed to endeavour to trace the
steps of those who were gone before, all anxiously listen
ing to catch the sound of water, that most delightful of all
sounds to the weary traveller, in a strange country and a

hot climate. At last Mr. Presgrave and the Editor were

left entirely to themselves, and whilst debating what to do,
and pursuing their walk in no little anxiety, the duskiness
of the night, the pouring rain, and their wet clothes not

adding to their comfort, Mr. Presgrave met with an acci

dent which had nearly proved serious, and caused some

alarm. He sunk into a large pit, (which was covered over

and concealed with leaves,) and disappeared entirely, and
with him sunk the hope of concluding the day's journey,
and his companion's spirit. He fortunately succeeded in

352  RETURN TO BUNCOOLEN.

extricating himself, and after continuing their walk some

time longer, the rippling of water was plainly distinguished,

and the busy voices of those assembled on the banks of the

river soon obliterated the slight troubles they had been

under. A happy night succeeded, and after a few hours'

rest, the journey was pursued.
   " The next day we reached Merambung, where we got

upon a raft, and were wafted down to the vicinity of

Manna in about seven hours. The passage down the

river was extremely romantic and grand ; it is one of the

most rapid rivers on the coast : we descended a rapid

almost every hundred yards.

   " After proceeding from Manna to Cawoor, we returned

by the coast to Bencoolen, where we arrived on the 3rd of
June, to the no small astonishment of the colonists, who

were not inclined to believe it possible we could have

thought of such a journey.
   " My attention was now directed to crossing the coun

try to Palembang. The Sultan having applied for the

Iprotection of the British Government, despatched a

party to ascertain the practicability of the communication.

I IBefore            had accounts of their safe
     left Bencoolen

arrival. They reached the navigable part of the Palem

bang river in twelve days' march from Bencoolen ; the
party were about four hundred strong. This is the first

time the island of Sumatra has ever been crossed by an

European, much less by troops.

  I I" am now on my way to Padang to see whether can

         ARRIVAL AT MERAMBUNO.      353

not reach Menangkabu before the Dutch arrive, who claim

the place under the convention.

   " Your Grace shall have the particulars of the tour to

Menanglcabu, the ancient capital of the Malay Empire, in

Ia separate letter ; and will conclude this hasty journal

with assurances of the respect, esteem, and affection with

Iwhich have the honour to remain, &C.,
                                        "T. S. Raffles."

The pleasure of this journey was great to Sir Stamford,

as it opened to him a field of future usefulness. He saw

that it was not only the barren coast which he had to im

prove, but a country rich in all the bounties of nature, and

a people ready and willing to profit by his influence and

advice. One old Chief, on taking leave, actually fell on

his neck and wept ; and soon after walked the whole way

from Tanjungalum, the most distant place visited, to see

him again at Bencoolen. Such simple uncivilized people

are soon won by kindness ; they are like children, easy to

lead, hard to drive. It was Sir Stamford's extreme sim

plicity of mind and manners that rendered him so pecu

liarly attractive to them, as they are always ready to be

kind and attentive, provided they meet with encourage

ment and sympathy, thus affording a proof that the heart
is the best teacher of true politeness. The Editor, on

, reaching Merambung, laid down under the shade of a

tree, being much fatigued with walking : the rest of the

party dispersed in various directions to make the necessary

vol. i.                         2A

354  MODE OF DESCENDING THE RIVER ON RAFTS.

arrangements, and seek for shelter; when a Malay girl
approached with great grace of manners, and on being

asked if she wanted any thing, replied, " No, but seeing

Iyou were quite alone, thought you might like to have a
Ilittle bichara (talk), and so am come to offer you some

siri (betel), and sit beside you." And no courtier could

have discussed trifling general subjects in a better man

ner, or have better refrained from asking questions which

were interesting to herself only ; her object was to enter
tain a stranger, which she did with great refinement and

politeness.
   The rafts alluded to in descending the Manna river,

were formed by a few bamboos fastened together with
cords. The Editor had wandered with some of the people
out of the direct course through the forest, and hearing a

noise of voices, approached the spot where it happened

the rafts were making. On inquiry, the task which ought

to have been finished was only just commencing. As these

rafts were to have been at a spot much lower down the
river, in readiness to carry the party back to Manna, the
Editor, knowing Sir Stamford's anxiety to proceed, waited

till one was completed ; but the raft was too slight, the
rapids too dangerous at this part of the river, for more

than three people to venture: accordingly, a pole was
fastened to the centre by which she was to hold, and stand

firm. A guide at each extremity then took their station,

each provided with a long pole ; and the raft glided down
the river, which was overhung with high rocks projecting

MODE OF DESCENDING THE RIVER ON RAFTS.  355

in various places. One man, on nearing the sharp turns
that continually occurred, and against which the rushing
of the river propelled the raft, prepared his pole, and

just before coming in contact struck it on the rock with

such force as to turn off the raft, which darted down the
fall until it would have come in contact with the rock on

the opposite side, when it was again struck off, and pro
ceeded on to the next rapid. The dashing of the raft
through the water, the roaring noise, the complete immer
sion in the spray, the momentary danger, the degree of
exertion which is necessary to preserve hold, the perfect
silence of each person--combined to create a degree of
excitement not easy to be described. The raft reached
Merambung in safety ; when, the descent being compara
tively easy, two chairs were fastened in the centre, and
the passage was a continued scene of pleasure, in admiring
the beauty of the surrounding country; until the men
suddenly stopped, and said they would not venture farther
in the dark, but that there was a village on the banks of

the river, where shelter might be found. It was still

early, but no inducement could prevail upon the inhabi
tants to venture out of their houses, for fear of tigers ; and
it was only by desiring the Chief of the place to order a
party, that messengers were dispatched with lighted flam
beaux, to procure horses from Manna to conclude the

journey.
   Sir Stamford rested at Manna one day, and proceeded

down the coast to Cawoor : this part of the journey was

                                                                             2a2

356  RETURN TO MANNA.

very trying : it was performed on horseback, principally
on the sea-beach, and in the middle of the day, on account
of tigers : the glare from the sea, the heat of the sand on
the beach, the vertical rays of a tropical sun, without any
shade, either natural or artificial, after the fatigue and ex
posure already experienced, were distressing to all, and
proved fatal to one of the party. Dr. Arnold, on arriving
at Cawoor, was seized with a fever, where no medicine

could be procured. After remaining there one day with
him, Sir Stamford hastened back to Bencoolen to obtain

medical aid ; this journey was again necessarily performed
on horseback, as the route was impassable for any carriage,
and nearly proved fatal to the whole party : in endeavour
ing to pass a projection of rock, called by the natives the
place of death, the tide rose so rapidly, and the surf was so
high, that the horses began to stagger, the people from
the top of the rock screamed in despair, and it was with
the utmost difficulty the horses were turned, urged back,

and a longer route pursued through the forest. A circum

stance occurred here which marks the superstitious fears
of the natives. The Coolies, in passing through the

forest, came upon a tiger crouched on the path ; they
immediately stopped and addressed him in terms of sup
plication, assuring him they were poor people carrying the
Tuan Basar (great man's luggage), who would be very

angry with them if they did not arrive in time, and there

fore they implored permission to pass quietly and without
molestation. The tiger, being startled at their appearance,

EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.  357

got up and walked quietly into the depths of the forest ;
and they came on perfectly satisfied that it was in conse
quence of their petition that they passed in safety.

   In October, 1818, Mr. Presgrave, Resident of Manna,
performed nearly the same journey, with the intention of
visiting the volcano on the summit of Gunung Dempo,
one of the highest mountains in that part of the island,
and gave the following additional particulars of this part
of the island.

    " The first part of the journey was performed on horse

back over beautiful plains : our party consisted of Mr.
Osborn (whose object was the dissemination of the bene
fits of vaccination), myself, and four Bugguese soldiers
for the escort of our baggage, carried by twenty-five
coolies or porters. Whilst resting at Gunung Ayu, our
attention was suddenly roused by a great noise in the
village, the people running in all directions; we soon

learned the meaning of this tumult. A man from a dis

tant village, whose father was shot when the Sepoys under
Colonel Clayton were sent, after the murder of Mr. Parr,

to destroy the villages in Pasumah Ulu Manna, having

arrived at the village, and heard that we were there, drew
his sword, and in a transport of rage and fury was pro

ceeding to the door crying out for the white men, when he
was stopped by the people, disarmed, and conveyed by
them away. So bent was he on revenge, that he vowed
he would yet accomplish his purpose, for nothing but the
blood of an orang puti (white man) would satisfy the

358  EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE'S JOURNAL.

manes of his deceased father. The people are particu
larly affected with goitres, some of which grow to an im
mense size, and render the person a disgusting object.

Among themselves they do not look upon these monstrous
excrescences as deformities, nor do they seem to expe
rience any pain or inconvenience from them ; the inha
bitants on the plains are entirely free from the disorder,
while as you approach the hills almost every individual is
affected with it. The natives attribute it to drinking the
water of some particular stream. The latter part of the
journey was principally over plains of a fine black loam of
very considerable depth, the horses' feet sinking in as
they passed over it. We approached the great mountain
on the fifth day, winding round the east side of it. On
our arrival here, we found one of our horses had died sud

denly, by its having eaten some noxious herb which grows
amongst the grass. The natives ate part of the carcass,
pillaged the bones, and even before death robbed it of all

its mane and tail. As this was the first time a horse had
been in this part of the country, it excited much curiosity.
The people did not seem to entertain any favourable idea
of our persons and colour. On entering a village to-day,
a tall spare figure, more resembling a spirit broken loose
from the infernal regions than a human being, with one of

Ithe largest wens in his throat have ever seen, came up

to us ; and after surveying us with an attentive eye for
some time, at length exclaimed aloud, ' These are the
white men we have so often heard of! Here they are like

EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.  359

devils.' For this remark he received a rebuke from his

countrymen, and slunk away ashamed.
   " We now began to suffer from want ; we had only two

bottles of wine left ; we found considerable inconvenience

in procuring fowls and other supplies, not from any scar
city of these articles, for they appeared to be in abun
dance, but on account of our rupees, which, to our daily
loss, we found were not current here. Spanish dollars
were in great request : the reason for this was that the
people of Pasumah Lebar were dependent on Palembang
for salt and their piece articles of clothing. We an
nounced our intention of visiting the summit of Gunung
Dempo, or the Sacred Mountain, for in that light it is
viewed by the natives themselves, who conceive that the
guardian genius of the country has his abode in it, and
that the Devas and inferior deities have also their resi

dence there. Our object was if possible to reach the
Crater. With this view we called for Panglimo, who had

been our guide from the coast, and whom we found on all

occasions a most useful and faithful man. Panglimo was
a man of desperate fortunes ; he had been banished by
his relations, and his attachment to us he acknowledged
arose from the pecuniary aid which he received. Since
the Governor's journey to Pasumah, he said he had
realized upwards of a hundred and twenty dollars, which
had enabled him to discharge a large portion of his debts.

He confessed himself to have been one of the greatest

resaus (plunderers) in the whole country ; and, indeed,

360 VISIT TO THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

from the countenance of the man, you would judge him to
be capable of executing the most desperate deed : a few
dollars would induce him to take away the life of his nearest
relation. Panglimo was the only man in all Pasumah who
would undertake the arduous task of conducting us to the
top of the mountain. Twenty dollars were to be the
amount of his reward for performing this service. Not
knowing the road, he succeeded, by the promise of five
dollars, in procuring a man who professed to be acquainted
with it to accompany him. This man was an Imam
(priest), whom, from the sanctity of his character, Pan
glimo considered necessary to ensure success, as he would
deprecate the wrath of the deities, and render them pro
pitious to our undertaking. This was to be accomplished
by previous sacrifice and fasting, and the day before we
set out the Imam performed this part of the ceremony by
killing a fowl.

   " Oct. 27. --The Imam having announced this as a

lucky day (for we were obliged to give way to his pre
judices), we set out with our fearless guide, our party,
including Coolies and attendants, amounting to eighteen
persons. We did not think it necessary to acquaint the
Chiefs with our design, anticipating that they would, in
consequence of their superstitious prejudices, make objec
tions, raise difficulties, and perhaps finally hinder us from
accomplishing our object. We therefore told them that
we were going to the foot of the mountain, but did not
acquaint them that we intended to attempt to ascend to

VISIT TO THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.  361

any height. We set forward on our expedition on the
morning, passing through several of their villages before

we came to the foot of the mountain. At a small eleva

tion from its foot we saw several of the magnificent flowers
found by the Governor on his tour to Pasumah Ulu
Manna, (Rafflesia Arnoldi.) Some were full blown,
others in the bud, and the buds of others were just
emerging from darkness. We continued our ascent,
marking the spots where the flowers grew, in order that
we might take some of them with us as specimens on our
return. Night was now drawing on, and finding ourselves
fatigued, we began to look out for a convenient spot on
which to raise our huts. Hearing the rushing of water
below us, we were induced to descend, in hopes of obtain
ing a good supply of water, which appeared to be scarce
in this place. On descending a deep ravine we found our
selves on the banks of the river Salangis. This river runs
through the whole of the Pasumah Lebar country, in an
easterly direction, and at last empties itself into that of
Palembang. In this place the river is very narrow ; its
banks are formed of a black sand, resembling, except in
colour, that of the sea-beach. The silence of the stream

is here interrupted by an abrupt cataract, over which the
water is precipitated with great impetuosity : this was the
cause of the noise we heard for the greater part of the
afternoon. We at first pitched our tent opposite to the
cataract, but the rushing of the water caused a draught of
 air which pierced so keenly, that we were obliged to remove

362 ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

it to a greater distance. At times there was such a strong

smell of sulphur, that it became almost intolerable. The
water was also so impregnated with this mineral as to
render it undrinkable, and we were obliged to make use of
what we could catch from the side of the rock.

    " On examining our provisions, we found the steward
had laid in so scanty a stock as would serve the whole of
our party only another day : we therefore sent back
several of our followers, taking with us only such as were
absolutely necessary. The number of our party thus cur

tailed, consisted of eleven; viz., Mr. Church, Mr. Cud-

lipp, myself, three servants, three Coolies, and the two

guides.

   " Oct. 28. --Early in the morning, after partaking of a

slight breakfast, not daring to indulge lest our stock
should fail us before we had completed our undertaking,
we ascended from this singular spot, and made another
effort to gain the summit of our ambition. We reached

the top of the ravine, and bending our course W.N.W.,

proceeded through deep forests, in which no human traces
were to be discovered. Our only path was one that had
been opened to us by the passage of elephants : the traces
of these masters of the desert were visible in every direc
tion. We passed through what is called by the natives
the region of tigers : the superstitious inhabitants of the
surrounding couutry imagine that there is a stream in
these parts, which when passed over by a human being,
possesses the virtue of transforming him to that ferocious

                      ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

animal, and on his return, of restoring him to his original
shape. From this fabulous story we expected to find the
woods infested with tigers ; but to our astonishment we
discovered nothing that could lead us to suppose that
these animals had deserted the plains to take up their
abode in the mountain. During the day we remarked
the footsteps of the rhinoceros and the wild goat. Our
two guides were employed as we proceeded in cutting the
small and low branched, and notching the trunks of trees
which grew in our path, in order to serve as marks on our
return, to prevent the possibility of our wandering from
the right course. Our ascent during the day was pretty
gradual and regular ; at intervals, however, this regularity
was interrupted by abrupt acclivities of one hundred feet ;
and having gained the top of these the ascent became less
steep, and in some places almost subsided into a plain.
We passed over four of these Tanga Gunung* to-day.
Towards evening we found ourselves beyond the deep
wood. The tall and majestic trees of the forest seemed
suddenly to have vanished from our view, and those of a
smaller and more sickly growth to have taken their place.
The road became almost impassable on account of thorns
and briers, which were so thickly interwoven as to present
an almost insurmountable obstacle to our progress. The
poor and exhausted Coolies with the greatest difficulty
dragged their burdens through these formidable oppo-

   * So called by the natives ; the term signifies ladders of the

mountain.

364  ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

nents : indeed we, who were not encumbered with any
thing extraneous, could scarcely pass ; the naked bodies
of our servants gushed with blood in every part, and our
own clothes were torn off our backs. We ate nothing
during the day excepting some of the fruit of the forests,
called by the natives buwah salak. Night now came on ,
apace, and we looked for a stream of water to enable us
to prepare our evening fare, but none could we discover ;
so we were obliged to content ourselves with a small quan
tity of muddy water, found in a hollow place made by
some animal, which, from the traces in the neighbourhood,

we supposed to be the rhinoceros.
   " Having rested a little from the fatigues of the day, in

vain we looked for the plains we had left yesterday morning ;
the face of the earth below was concealed from our sight ;
clouds and darkness rolled under our feet. We found
ourselves above the summit of the surrounding mountains ;
and, for the first time in our lives, heard the thunder roll
beneath us. The heavens above frowned, as in anger at
the presumption of man daring to enter these aerial abodes ;
and the roaring of the volcano at intervals impressed us

with a kind of sacred awe, as if we had in reality approached

the habitation of celestial beings. These were the only
forerunners of the deluge which was to follow. The
gloomy spot in which we were doomed to pass the night far
surpassed the power of description. On the one side, the
steep acclivity of the mountain ; on the other a deep pre
cipice ; not a tree to afford us a covering or protection

ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.  365

from the threatening storm, and scarcely a bit of dry wood
to light a fire. In this situation we were enveloped in
total darkness. The thunder grew louder, the lightning
more vivid, while the volcano above us continued its
frightful roaring. At length the storm burst upon us in
all its fury ; our light and fire were suddenly extinguished,
we were necessitated to eat in the dark a half-prepared
meal. We then sat down to wait the holding up of the
rain, but we soon lost all hope of a calm interval. The
storm continued with unabated violence until near day
light. Fatigued by the arduous task of the day, and with
little to eat, we would fain have relieved our troubles by
sleep ; but to sleep in our condition was certain death.
Besides the rain which poured in at every part of our hut,
the torrent which rushed down the mountain threatened
to sweep us below. We wrapped ourselves up in blankets,
but these were very soon soaked through ; indeed we ap
peared to be sitting in the bed of a river, rather than on
firm ground. The air was bitterly cold; our shivering
people murmured loudly : we had never felt it so cold

since we left England. If we attempted to talk or laugh,

our guide, the Imam, in a tremulous voice, begged we
would be silent, and not provoke the already angry gods.
We asked whence proceeded the roarings we heard above
us. Panglimo told us they came from the telago, or crater
of the volcano, and desired we would ask no questions
about this frightful place. Towards morning the rain in
 some degree abated, when Messrs. Church and Cudlipp

366  ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

 very imprudently went to sleep in the wet condition in
which they were. Daylight at length made its appear
 ance, and again the men attempted to light fires, which
 were most desirable ; for, from the uncomfortable manner

in which we passed the night, our followers were half dead
with hunger, cold, and wet ; and, indeed, although two of
us had been accustomed to the severities of an European
winter, we were all most happy to enjoy the comfort of a
fire-side, even in the heart of Sumatra.

    " Oct. 29. -- Having partaken of a little unsavoury rice
without even salt or chilies to render it palatable, we pre
pared for another day s labour. From the difficulty we
 experienced yesterday in bringing the baggage as far as
this, we conceived that greater obstacles lay before us. We
therefore resolved to leave the Coolies and baggage in the
"hut, and proceeding unencumbered to the summit of the
mountain, return if possible to the place where we slept
 the last night, before the close of the day, which our guide
 told us could be accomplished. We did not proceed far
 before we found that we were correct in regard to the

 difficulties we had anticipated: for now the ascent was
 steep, and the briers became thicker and more closely
 entwined together, so that it was an absolute impossibility
 to penetrate through them. Here we began to look on
 our object as unattainable : we unsuccessfully sought for
 some sort of path along which we might pass. The same
 insurmountable obstacles beset us on all sides, and no

 choice appeared to be left but to retrace our steps to the

ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN,  367

hut : yet when we turned our heads and beheld the lofty
summit above us, and volumes of dark smoke rolling on

its dusky and naked top, we felt an irresistible desire to
surmount every difficulty, and face every danger. Our
progress being thus impeded, we could not help noticing
the strange aspect of the scene around us ; the grand ma
jestic trees of the forest, whose venerable trunks had with
stood the shocks and storms of ages, no longer struck our
eyes, but in their stead thorns and briers, and trees of a
diminutive growth. What was most singular, all around
us were seen the dead trunks of trees, some of which had

attained to a large size and considerable height, standing

erect without a single branch. All these trunks being
black, as if burnt by lightning, we conceived it probable

that some violent shock of nature, not far back, had re

 duced the former flourishing wood to its present blasted

condition. Perhaps some recent eruption from the vol
 cano might have produced this effect; or might not
noxious exhalations arising from the crater have checked,
 and nearly destroyed vegetation in this part ? We were
sensible of a very strong smell of sulphur.

   " It was now for the first time that we saw the stout

hearted Panglimo shrink from difficulty. The man who
 seemed calculated to perform the labours of Hercules, and
 who ever made it his boast that he had encountered danger
 in every shape, was the first to sound a retreat. ' You
 see,' said he, ' the gods are not propitious to our under
 taking :--they have shut up the road against us :--they

368  ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

will bewilder us in this desert place :--we cannot proceed.'
We all appeared to incline to this advice, but each felt
ashamed of a defeat. Again we endeavoured to penetrate

the thick briers ; again Panglimo turned pale : ' It is vain

Ito contend against the gods,' he said, and sat down.

rallied him, and taking the sword, which now served as a
pruning-hook, from his hand, endeavoured to cut through
the brambles ; but their stems were so tough and closely
interwoven that it made no impression. This was sufficient
for Panglimo, who started up, and mounting with his
naked feet upon the thorns, instead of forcing a passage
through them, walked on the top; we all followed him,
and in this way proceeded, by slow degrees, for an hour or
two. Having surmounted this formidable obstacle, we
met with another not less discouraging. Instead of thorns
and briers, we now had to walk over the trunks of trees,

that were thrown down and piled on each other. They
appeared to have lain in this state for a long time, for some
were decayed, others decaying, and the whole covered over
with a sort of vegetation which sprang from their mould.

   " We were two or three hours walking over these wrecks
of the forests, at the imminent hazard of slipping through
the interstices of the trunks, and thus of being buried
alive, or else of breaking our bones. During the whole
time we did not once set our foot on firm ground, or see
the soil over which we were walking, nor by putting our
sticks through could we reach the bottom. The vegetation
of ages appeared to be piled up here in a widely-extended

         ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

and confused mass ; and we seemed to have approached
the brink of general destruction and desolation. We found

that we were on a ridge of the mountain ; on each side of

us was a precipice of immense depth. The ridge grew

narrower at every step. The day was bright, and looking

down, the country immediately subjected to our view was

beyond imagination beautiful ; extensive plains, scattered

over with smoking villages : pools of water reflecting the
rays of the sun ; to the north the Musi river, called by

these people the sea of Musi. Having stayed a short time
to contemplate this scene, we again set forward, and made
another effort to gain the top of the mountain, Our path

was now comparatively smooth, but of steep ascent ; we
no longer found any of our former obstacles. The only

vegetation on this part is a sort of shrub, very much re
sembling the box-tree : the natives call it Kayu umur pan-

jang, or the tree of long life, and say it is only to be met

with on the top of this mountain. The shrub is about six

feet high, and appears to be checked in its growth. Its

branches and leaves were covered with a kind of dust,

which being shaken off as we passed along, proved very

troublesome and disagreeable, almost choking us. We

thought this rather singular, as the rain which fell the pre

ceding night, if it had reached this part, ought to have

entirely washed away the dust, but the earth appeared as

Idry as the trees. Although we had not, as have just

noticed, our former difficulties to encounter, we were not

less affected by feelings of a different nature. Our path

vol. i.  2 is

370  ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

had now become less than two fathoms wide, bounded by

deep precipices, the bottom of which the eye could not

penetrate, and whose naked sides filled us with terror, and

narrowing at every step, we were threatened with being

ingulphed in these unfathomable depths. We had now

gained the summit of this narrow ridge ; and disappoint

ment was the only recompense we found for our troubles

and difficulties, for our guide told us we had ascended the

wrong ridge, and could not get to the crater, which was

the grand object we had in view when we undertook the
task ; nor were we even on the highest part of the mountain,

for the place where we stood was overtopped by Gunung

Berapi : this was entirely bare, and might be three or

four hundred feet above where we stood.  Gunung Berapi
is another peak of this great mountain.  There are in all

three, to which the natives give separate names, viz.,
Gunung Dempo, Gunung Lumut, and Gunung Berapi.

Gunung Lumut we did not see, it being on the other side

of Gunung Berapi ; this last, as its name points out, is

the one connected with the volcano. We were still doomed

to disappointment ; for the brightness of the day became

overclouded, and nothing could be seen from this elevated

situation but the tops of surrounding mountains, and a

white mist at our feet, which, like a sheet, veiled from us

the face of the earth. We now consulted whether we

should make any further attempt to attain our object, but

all agreed in the impossibility of succeeding : besides, we
had not a grain of rice or other food with us, and only

ASCENT OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.  371

another scanty meal left at the hut, which we must reach

before night.

  If" Oct. 30. -- any thing, we passed a worse night than

the one we have already described. We awoke at day
light, or rather did not sleep all night, on account of the
wet and cold. Boat-cloaks and blankets were of no use ;

they were wet through in a few minutes, and only made
our bodies more chilly. Having partaken of a half break
fast, we set forward on our return, retracing our footsteps,
which were easily found by the marks and cuttings of the
trees which were made on our ascent. The spot where we
spent our last two nights is situated rather more than two-
thirds up the mountain. Being tired of the woods, we re
solved to make a forced march and reach the village of
Sawah Batuhan before night. We stopped to take three
specimens of the Krabut flower (Rafflesia Arnoldi), two

full-blown, and one bud. As I have noticed before, the

spot on which these extraordinary flowers grow is rather
elevated. No part of the plant is seen above ground ex
cept the flower, which, decked in all the splendour of
nature, bursts forth to light from a root which runs hori
zontally on the ground. The natives appeared not to be
well acquainted with and gave us a confused account of
it, from which we collected that there are two species of
the krabut, one of which springs up into shrub and bears
flowers rather different from those which we now saw in

the other, no part except the flower makes its appearance

above ground, without leaves and without stem. --About

                                                  2b2
it,
                                 a

                                                                          ;

372 EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.

two o'clock in the afternoon we reached the villages, thank
ful that we had once more extricated ourselves from such

frightful wilds.
   " As the above extracts from my journal will afford a

pretty good idea of the sort of people we were among, and

the difficulties we had to encounter, I shall not detain you

with the details of our journey back to Manna, but attempt
a general sketch of the country and inhabitants which we
visited; noting only by the way that on our arrival at
Tanjung Alam (the end of the world), many inquiries
were made after Tuan Adam. Having no acquaintance
with Adam, we were surprised at the entreaty and earnest
ness with which the inquiry was made ; and it was some
time before we found that Tuan Adam was no other per
sonage than Madame Besar, or Lady Raffles, the name by
which she is known to this people. Madame, it appears,
was metamorphosed by them into Adam, a very pardonable
mistake, considering that they look upon Adam as some
very extraordinary person, and Lady Raffles as no less so,
in having overcome such difficulties, and being the first
European lady who had visited their country.

   " The chief mountains in this neighbourhood, in the
western range, are Gunung Dempo, Gunung Lumut, and
Gunung Berapi, which form one great mountain, by far
the highest in this part, being conspicuous over all the
rest, and visible from Fort Marlborough, bearing from
Manna N.N.E., and from Padang Guchei N. With
regard to the height of this mountain, it would be but

EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVe's JOURNAL.  373

Imere. conjecture if were to estimate it at twelve or

thirteen thousand feet above the level of the sea ; but the

eye is easily deceived, and not having been accustomed to

Ijudge of heights, may be far from correct. We may

perhaps judge something from the time we were ascend
ing. We commenced about ten o'clock on the 27th of
October ; about half-past four we stopped for the night ;
at seven the next day we set forward again, and travelled

till five o'clock; the following morning we recommenced

at seven, and reached as far as we were able to go about

half-past one o'clock, making altogether twenty-four
hours. Allowances must be made for the badness of the
roads, and the many impediments we met with in the last
third part of our journey. Although we were so long in
ascending, we were not more than ten hours in descend
ing, having started at six from our hut, which we guessed
to be two-thirds of the height of the mountain, we
reached the foot at about four o'clock or past. The
highest peak (Jambul Beniul) of the ranges which we

passed over between the coast and Passumah Ulu Manna,

did not occupy more than three or four hours, or scarcely
so long. The temperature of the atmosphere on the top
of this mountain was very low ; although we discovered
neither snow nor ice, yet from what some of the natives
told us, we were led to think that both have been seen
there. They related a story of three persons who were
frozen to death, ' mati ka hrasan,' stiffened or hardened to

374  EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVES JOURNAL.

Ideath.  cannot state the precise degree of temperature

for want of a thermometer, though I should think Fahren

heit's would have been as low as thirty-five degrees before

sunrise. We were informed by some of the natives, that

within their memory the volcano, which now appears to

be extinct, had been known to emit flames, covering the

trees and lands of the adjacent country with white ashes.

This emission was accompanied with a loud noise, that

filled the whole country with alarm. The singular ap
pearance of the trees near to the top of the mountain,

mentioned in another place, gives some colour to this

report ; hence we may probably account for large trees

being deprived of every branch, and the outer part of

their trunks, the whole being too solid a substance to be

entirely consumed, being burnt black as a cinder. But

from the best information we could collect on the subject,

it appears highly probable that the thick smoke seen to

issue from the side of the mountain is an aqueous vapour

arising from a hot spring, situated in the crater of the

volcano. The water of this spring has a constant motion,

sometimes greater, and sometimes less, alternately rising

and sinking, and when this agitation is greatest, it is

attended with the emission of a dark volume of smoke ;

this is immediately preceded by a loud noise resembling

thunder, only of shorter duration. I have myself observed
the smoke issuing forth at intervals of a few minutes, as if

repeated explosions had taken place within the crater. --

EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.  375

Dempo is the only mountain in this part that is honoured
with the epithet of Gunung, all the rest being called
Bukit or hill.

   " We made inquiry respecting the large lake said

*****to be situated somewhere in these parts, but could not

learn that one existed. Perhaps the jealousy of the
people might take care to conceal the knowledge of it

from us.
" The people of Pasumah Lebar have traditionary

reports of their descent from the Javanese. They relate
that in the time of the prosperity of the kingdom of Maja-

pahit, two persons, a brother and sister, with several fol

Ilowers, whose names and title they told me, but which

have now forgotten, left that kingdom, and landing on

the eastern shores of this island, the female settled at

Palembang, where, in a short time, she became a powerful

princess; but the brother, travelling more inland from

that place, settled himself in the fertile valley of Pasumah.
In this way the country was first possessed and peopled ;

and hence the origin of the present race, which in many

Irespects,  conceive, bears considerable analogy to the

people of Java.
   " In their persons the inhabitants of Pasumah Lebar,

generally speaking, are not so tall and robust as those of
Pasumah Ulu Manna. This may be attributed to the
difference of the climate, and mountainous situation of the

latter, as more adapted to form a strong and robust frame

37(i  EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRA VE's JOURNAL.

of body, than the level plains of the former. Their de
portment is sedate and grave. The higher class are
respectful and courteous in their manners. Their virtues
are, perhaps, of a higher order than we meet with on the
coast. Their hospitality to strangers is unbounded, and
a violation of its law, in their estimation, would be little
less than a crime of the greatest magnitude.

   " The lines are almost as applicable to them as to the
Scottish Highlander :--

                        And stranger is a holy name ;
                           Guidance and rest, and food and 6 re,
                      In vain he never must require.

   " They are open and generous, and appear to be not
destitute of that delicacy of feeling usually termed. honour.
Insult would be instantly repelled, and injury revenged,
not by the secret dagger concealed under the screen of
darkness, but publicly and in the face of day. They are
chaste and temperate, of a bold and daring disposition,
but passionate and hasty : with a strong attachment to
their ancient customs, they look upon all innovation as a
departure from truth and justice; they are extremely
independent, and jealous of any infringement of their
ancient liberties. They are industrious, and less infected
with the vice of gambling than the Company's subjects.
Opium smoking is unknown among them ; they look upon
that drug as poison. On the other hand, they have little
regard for truth, and think but lightly of the violation of
an oath. They have no regard to honesty or fairness of

EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.  377

dealing in their transactions, but make a merit of cheat
ing. They are more warlike than the inhabitants of the
coast, and are extremely dexterous in the use of their
weapons. They cannot bear to hear the term Coolie
applied to them, and absolutely refused to assist us in
carrying our baggage under that name.

   " They are very temperate in their diet, and seldom
eat flesh of any kind. The buffalo, not being a native of
their plains, is slain only on occasions of importance.
Goat's flesh, although more plentiful, and fowls, which are
abundant, are seldom eaten, except in their offerings to
the gods. Swine's flesh is not eaten; but, besides this,
they have few prejudices with regard to food. They are
by no means delicate, this way ; and the entrails of the
fowls killed for our dinner were eagerly picked up, and,
after undergoing some preparations, greedily devoured.

   " For this purpose they attended the cook daily in his
culinary operations, to carry off" every thing he threw away.
They do not even scruple to eat the carcass of an animal
found dead, although they know not how it came by its
death : thus the carcass of the unfortunate horse that died
in one of the villages was almost wholly devoured by

them, and some declared they had made a hearty meal
from it.

   " The only inebriating drink made use of by them is a
fermented liquor, prepared from rice, and termed brum :

this is drunk only at festivals. They have the same aver
sion to milk, and every preparation from it, as the Java

37*  EXTRACT FROM MR. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.

nese and other Eastern people. A chief being asked

whether he would take milk with his tea, replied that he

was not an infant.
   " The villages are in general neat and clean, the houses

well built, and not ill adapted for convenience. They are
tolerably commodious and airy ; many of them are con
structed of plank, particularly those of the Chiefs, and are

ornamented with carved work.
   " Their language is not so much peculiar to themselves

as the manner of pronouncing it : except in this, it differs

little from that spoken in the interior of Manna. It has

no words not to be found in languages of the neighbour
ing countries ; in other respects it is the same as that
spoken by the people on the coast from Sellibar to Kawa,
where another dialect, and different usages, are found to
commence, bearing a near resemblance to those of Lam-
pung. The dialect of Serawi is also called Sambilan Lura,
and includes the rivers of Sillabar, Angalum, Salumah,
Tallo, Alas, Pino, Manna, Beneannon, and Padang Guchie,

throughout which the same language and customs prevail.

This last may be considered almost distinct from the
Malayan. About one-fifth of it may consist of Malayan

words, but the remaining four bear no affinity to that lan

guage. A native Malay, previously unacquainted with it,

would not understand a conversation carried on between

two persons in the Bhasa Serawi ; but from the frequent
intercourse between the people of the district already
mentioned and the Malays, the language of the latter is

EXTRACT FROM MH. PRESGRAVE's JOURNAL.  379

mutually understood. But to return to the Pasumahs, it
is difficult even for a Serawi man to understand clearly what

they say ; this arises chiefly from the peculiar utterance
given by them to their words, their sounds being more

guttural. All the words, which, by the natives of the

coast, are made to terminate in a simple o, by these peo
ple have a sound almost like eu or euh, as in the last sylla
ble of dim, but pronounced much longer and more forcibly ;
e. g., the Malay word kuda, or, as pronounced by the
natives of this Island, kudo, is by the Pasumahs called
kudeuh, and kata or kato, kateuh ; maro, or marah, ma-

reuh. These people are not ignorant of writing. They
use the characters which Mr. Marsden calls Rejang, but
which are not peculiar to those people. The mode of
writing is on pieces of split bamboo, on which they cut or
scratch the letters with the point of a knife or sewar. They
seldom use it but to send a message to a distant person,
or to acquaint him with any piece of news : thus, for

instance, a despairing swain inscribes his love verses

(pantuns), and conveys them to his mistress. They have
no written memorials of past transactions or events,
nothing in the form of history, popular tales, or writings
of any other kind, with the exception of a few forms of
prayer used in their religious ceremonies.

   " In travelling through their villages, the first thing that
strikes the eye of a stranger is the temple, a small square
building, erected always in the centre of it. This proves,

not only that they have a religion, but that they possess a

380  WRITING SUPERNATURAL BEINGS.

considerable degree of attachment to it. This religion isit,
undoubtedly Hindu, with a slight admixture of Mahomed-
anism, which seems, at some time or other, to have made

some progress among them. Circumcision is universally
practised, and they manifest the same prejudice to swine's
flesh that the professors of the Mahomedan religion do ;
but it is chiefly, nay almost entirely, in these particulars
that the ceremonies and institutions of the one bear any

resemblance to those of the other. It is rather remarkable

that one tribe, called Anack Semundo, more strictly adheres
to the tenets of the religion of Mahomet. They read the
Koran, pray at the stated periods of the day, practise
charity, which, according to the Mahomedans, consists
entirely in giving alms, keep the puaso, or feast of Rama-
zan, with other observances of that religion. The head of
this tribe is called Nabi Panghulu. Both the jujur and
ambil anak marriages are very rare among them, the
Semundo mode being almost exclusively adopted. But to
return, although the greater part of the inhabitants of this

country, as I have already said, are Pagans, they never

theless worship neither idols nor external objects, neither
have they any order of priesthood. They have no idea of
one eternal Supreme Being, who made all things ; although
they frequently make use of the expression Allah Tuah,
the term by which the Arabians express that idea, and,
borrowing from the latter, which the Malays use to express
the same idea ; but the more ignorant Pasumah affixes no
such meaning to it. Ask him what he means by and

WRITING SUPERNATURAL BEINGS.  381

he replies, it is one of the Dewas. In the mythology of
these people, Dewas are the highest order of beings,
whom they regard with superstitious reverence. They

are looked upon as benignant spirits, whose influence is
beneficial to the human race. These divinities listen to the

prayers, and are pleased with the sacrifices offered to them
by mortals. They know all that passes on earth ; they
have a general superintendence over mankind and all
mundane affairs ; the destinies of men are in their hands,

and all events are at their disposal. To these benignant
beings man is indebted for the principle of life, and this
debt is continually increasing through every instant of his
existence, for the preservation and maintenance of that
principle within him. There appear to be orders and
gradations of these beings ; they are not all of the same
importance to man. They have their abodes on the earth,
and choose different parts of its surface for their habita

tions ; some resort to the deepest and most gloomy woods
and forests ; some to hills and mountains ; some preside
over the rushing torrent, while others, delighted with the
gentle murmurs of the limpid stream, retire to its shady
banks. Particular trees are devoted to these deities :

thus the sacred bringin tree, or the venerable banyan,
spreads forth its shade in a peculiar manner, in order to
shelter the sacred habitation of a Dewa ; even the kalapo
gading (a variety of the cocoa-nut tree), in the opinion of

these superstitious people, is under the benignant influ

382  POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS INVISIBLE MEN.

ence of a holy Dewa, who resides in its branches, and pro

duces a more excellent sort of fruit.
   " But besides these there is another order of beings,

whose influence is far less benignant. They are called
Jins, or evil spirits, and are considered to be the authors

of evil. All the misfortunes and calamities attendant on

human life proceed from them. They likewise have their

residence on different parts of the earth ; and should a

man by accident approach the unhallowed spot, he usually

feels the anger of these resentful spirits.
   " There is still another class of beings, who, in regard

to the qualities and attributes ascribed to them, appear to

possess a middle rank between the Dewas and the Jins,

approaching much nearer to the nature of the former.

They are termed Orang Alus --that is, fine, impalpable,

Ior invisible men.    do not know the precise office or

nature of this fairy tribe. They seem to be a mixture of

material and immaterial beings, partaking of the nature

Iof men and spirits.       have seen a man who, it was said,

Iwas wedded to one of these Orang Alus.  concluded

his children partook of the nature of their mother, for

although he had a large family, nobody had ever seen

one. The name of the man was Dupati Rajo Wani ; in

appearance he much resembled a wizard. Such are the
ridiculous ideas of this people ! But are they more gross

than those entertained by the Greeks and Bomans with

regard to their deities ?

TRANSMIGRATION SACRIFICE TO THE MANKS.  383

" The manes of their ancestors are held in the highest

veneration, and are esteemed not inferior to the gods

themselves. They suppose them to take concern in the

welfare of their posterity, over whom they are always

watchful. They have a strong regard and attachment to

the spot where their forefathers were interred; and if

Alexander the Great had penetrated into this quarter of

the globe, and attempted to molest the natives in their
woods and forests, they would have sent him the same

reply that the ancient Scythians did. They have a strong

persuasion in the doctrine of the metempsychosis, though,

I believe, it is only particular animals which are allotted

to the reception of the souls of the dead : nor need these,

in temper and disposition, bear any resemblance to those
of the persons while living whose souls are transfused

into them. The tiger is the animal they look upon as

most generally animated by a human soul. This is the

reason why they regard that ferocious beast almost as

sacred, and treat it with so much undeserved mildness

and respect. Even when its jaws are polluted with

human gore, a man cannot be prevailed on to kill it in

Iforder to prevent it from repeating its bloody feast.  a

near relation have fallen its victim, he will perhaps be

roused to revenge his death ; yet sometimes, even in this,

his superstitious prejudices and fears get the better of his

ardent thirst for revenge.
   " When a man finds himself plunged in distress, and

the dark clouds of adversity gathering over his head, he

384 TRANSMIGRATION -- SACRIFICE TO THE MANES.

repairs to the temple or kramat, there to propitiate the

Dewas, and to invoke the manes of his ancestors to assist

him under his sufferings. This is done by sacrificing a

buffalo, a goat, or even a fowl, according to the urgency of

Ithe occasion, and by prayer and fasting.  have been

told that some have remained in a state of fasting for

fourteen days, during the whole of which time they have
tasted not a morsel of food ; a little quantity of water was
allowed. Others have supported it for seven days, but
two or three is the general period for this sort of holy

penance. At this time they cannot be said to pray ; part

of the time being spent in silently lamenting their dis
tress, and uttering a few words, the purport of which they
do not understand. But the chief merit of this ceremony
consists in calling upon their Dewas by their proper titles,

and in due order; for each has its particular title and

rank. They then repeat the names of their nenek puyang,
or forefathers, and entreat them to deliver them from their

existing difficulties. In the language of the country this
mode of invoking the deities is termed bertarak, but it is

chiefly in cases of the most pressing calamity that they
have recourse to it : for instance, in the time of war, they

frequently go through this austere ceremony in order to

Iensure success. As have somewhere remarked, Gunung

Dempu is looked upon as the sacred abode of the Dewas,

and the souls of their ancestors occupy the regions of the

mountains."

                CHAPTER XII.

Sir S. Raffles at Bencoolen-- Proceeds to Padang --Is anxious to go to
Menangkabu -- Considered impracticable -- Dangers represented --
                                     r--iveDrif--ficTuhlteyrmoofmtehteeir--oadH--eigBheatutoy f
Determines to    make the   attempt
                           up the
of the country  -- Course

the mountain --Description of the Tiga Bias country and people
-- Cattle --Horses-- Clothing of the people --Houses-- View of the
Lake of Sincara --Description of it-- Town of Simawang -- Coun
try compared to that of Java --Arrival at Suruasa--Discovery of
an inscription in the Kami character --Description of Menang
kabu -- Hindu image similar to those of Java -- Height of the city
--Return to the Lake-- Description of crossing it--Minerals--
Vegetables --Agriculture-- Return to Bencoolen-- Death of Dr.

Arnold.

A month was passed at Bencoolen in attending to the

duties of the settlement. The only event which occurred

was a successful attempt to cross the island from Ben
coolen to Palembang. The following details are con

tained in the extract of a letter to Mr. Marsden :--

" My dear Sir,                       " July, 1818.

I" thought it would not be long before we found

our way across the island. Finding it necessary to send

Ia mission with a detachment of Sepoys to Palembang,

marched them across the hills, and have the pleasure to

vol. i.                              2c

386              PROCEEDS TO PADANG.

inform you, that the party reached Muara Billiti on the
Palembang river, where boats were in readiness to take
them to Palembang in nine days from their leaving Ben-

*****coolen, without difficulty or casualty ; not a sick man or a

single want the whole way. They expected to reach Pa
lembang in two days more, making eleven from their

departure.
  " I have, with Lady Raffles and Dr. Arnold, visited the

Pasumah country, which is equal to anything in Java.
We had the pleasure of spending three nights in the
forests, and of sometimes walking thirty miles in the day ;
but we are now so accustomed to exploring, that we are
not sensible of the fatigue.

*****" I am building a bungalow on the first range of hills

at the back of Bencoolen, on Gunung Kabut, the Hill of

Mists, where we have a cool climate.
  I" shall write you more fully by ' The Lady Raffles.'

In the meantime, accept our united wishes for your health

and happiness, and with kindest regards to Mrs. Mars-

den, believe me

                 " T. S. Raffles."

   In the beginning of the month of July (1818), Sir

Stamford embarked from Bencoolen to visit Padang, and

if possible to obtain some information regarding the situ

ation and circumstances of the ancient Malay city of

AN ACCOUNT OF MENANGKABU.  387

Menangkabu, which, from his love of Eastern literature,
was an object of great interest to him.

   The capital of Menangkabu, the jurisdiction of which in
ancient times extended over the whole of Sumatra, was
understood to be situated about eighty miles inland of
Padang, beyond the western range of high mountains,
and nearly in the centre of the Island. No European
had ever visited the country, and but little was known of

its constitution.

   From his observations, and the information he collected

at Padang, Sir Stamford was led to anticipate that in this
inland government, whence all the Malayan states ac
knowledge to have derived their power, much civilization
was to be discovered. The origin of the Malayan nation
was of itself a question of interesting inquiry. The pre
sent state and condition of the seat of empire promised to
throw light on the subject; and as it was uncertain how
long Padang, the key to Menangkabu, might remain in
the possession of the English, he was determined to at
tempt the enterprize.

    Menangkabu had been famed since the earliest periods
of history for the riches of its gold mines, its iron ores,

and its mineral productions in general. It was from

Menangkabu, and principally down the Siak, Sudragidi,
and Sunda rivers, that the gold which traders found at

Malacca in remote periods was carried. It was to the

gold of Menangkabu that Malacca owed its designation
of the golden Chersonesus, and navigators even distin

                                                  2c2

388  LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

guish in their charts to this day two mountains in its
vicinity, called Mount Ophir, one in Sumatra to the west,
the other on the peninsula of Malacca, but nearly in the
same degree of latitude with the capital of Menangkabu,
that is to say, under the equinoctial line. Sir Stamford
wrote an account of this journey to his friends in England.

                                TO WM. MARSDEN, ESQ.

                      " Pageruyung, at the foot of Berapi, July 24, 1818,
                                            long. E., lot. 10°S.

    " My dear Sir,

      I" have the satisfaction to send you a few lines

Ifrom this noted spot, to prove to you that have not been

idle since my arrival. Dr. Horsfield, who is with me,
will carry home an account of our discoveries ; and in the

mean time it may be sufficient to inform you that at

ISuruasa yesterday discovered two inscriptions in the
IKawi character ; and at Pageruyung, ten minutes ago,

met with a regular Hindu idol well sculptured in stone.

Lady Raffles is by my side, and desires her kindest

remembrances."

EXTRACT FROM A LETTER WRITTEN AT SEA TO THE DUCHESS

                                        OF SOMERSET.

                                                                        " Sept. 10th, 1818.

  I" On my arrival at Padang, found that, notwithstand
Iing the previous instructions had given, no arrange

ments whatever had been made for facilitating the pro
posed journey into the interior. Here, as in a former

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.                       389

Iinstance at Manna, when  proposed proceeding to

Pasumah, the chief authority had taken upon himself, on
the advice of the good folks of the place, to consider such

an excursion as altogether impracticable, and to con

Iclude that on my arrival should myself be of the same

Iopinion.  had, therefore, to summon the most intel

ligent European and native inhabitants, and to inform

them of my determination. At first all was difficulty and

impossibility. Besides physical obstructions, the whole of

the interior was represented to be under the sway of
Tuanku Pasaman, a religious reformer, who would un

doubtedly cut me off without mercy or consideration : but

when they found me positive, these difficulties and im

possibilities gradually vanished ; distances were estimated,

and a route projected; letters were immediately sent off

to the principal Chiefs of the interior, informing them of

my approach, and in three days everything was ready for

the journey.
   " Our first object was to send the baggage and pro

visions a-head. This party, which consisted of about two

hundred Coolies, or porters, each man carrying his sepa

rate load ; fifty military as an escort, and all our personal

servants, left Padang on the afternoon of the 14th of

July, by beat of drum, forming a most ridiculous caval

cade, the interest of which was much heightened by the

quixotic appearance of my friend Dr. Horsfield, who was

borne along on the shoulders of four of the party, in order

that in preceding us he might gain time for botanizing.

390  JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

    " Thursday, the 16th, at daylight, was fixed our de
parture, but the rain during the whole of the night had
been violent and incessant, and continued to fall so

heavily that no one could move out of the house till after

ten o'clock ; the clouds then broke, and the native Chiefs

who were to accompany us appeared ; one and all declared
the impossibility of our proceeding on that day : such had
been the quantity and the violence of the rain, that the
river of Padang had overflowed its banks ; the bazaar or
native town was three feet under water ; all communica
tion with the country was cut off; the long-boat of the
Sunburry and another native boat had been lost in at
tempting to get out of the river : but as the weather
cleared up by noon, and everything was arranged for de

parting, we were not inclined to be disappointed. At

half-past twelve, therefore, we left the Residency, under
a salute from the fort, accompanied by the Tuanku, or
native Chief of the place, two Princes of Menangkabu,
the principal native merchants, and about 300 followers.

   " For the first part of the road we proceeded on horse
back, but were soon obliged to dismount. We had scarcely
passed the bazaar of Padang, when we had to swim our
horses across a rapid stream, and in the course of three hours
we had successively to cross at least twenty streams of the
kind : over some we were carried in small canoes, over
others we were borne on men's backs, and through some
we boldly waded, for it was impossible to think of remain

ing free from wet. At length, we struck across the country

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  391

to the northward, over a fine plain of rice-fields, which,

fortunately for us, were not in a state of cultivation. We

had hardly got over our difficulties in crossing the nume

rous rivulets, when a heavy shower drenched us completely,

and as there was every prospect of a wet night, we thought
it best to look out for shelter, and accordingly, at half-

past four, put up in the village of Campong Baru, where

we remained housed for the night. We at first expected
to have reached Lemau Manis, a small village at the foot

of the mountains ; but the rain coming on, we were content
to satisfy ourselves with having got thus far, and accom

plished the great object of breaking ground. Although we

had been four hours on the road, we did not estimate our

distance from Padang,in a direct line, at more than six miles.

The country through which we had passed was populous,

and generally well cultivated ; many herds of cattle and

buffaloes straying near the road ; an appearance of plenty

and content throughout ; the villages seeming to occupy

a very considerable extent, and to include orchards and

Iplantations of various kinds.  notice these appearances,

because they are not found to exist within the same dis

tance of Bencoolen.

  I" Just before reaching this village, received an express

from Dr. Horsfield, which, on account of its encouraging

tenor, I shall transcribe.

      " ' My dear Sir,
             " ' Your servants, Covrington and Siamce, have

just arrived at Gedong Beo, with a report that one of the

392  LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

Coolies was carried away by the stream, in attempting to

cross the river; we have had continued rain for twenty-four

hours, by which the rivers are all greatly swelled. Covring-

ton thinks it impossible that Lady Raffles can pursue the

I Iroute. As for myself, came in just before the rain.
Imust inform you that there are many difficult passages ;

should not, however, despair of your progress, as far as re

Ilates to yourself, but as for Lady Raffles, almost doubt

whether, in favourable weather, she could come on, as in

many places a lady cannot be carried ; if it rains, doubtless,

communication is stopped. The road passes through the

bed of a stream, which rapidly swells after rains ; and if

the rains continue, the natives are positively of opinion

Ithat the progress forwards or backwards is impeded. do

not wish to discourage you in the attempt, but it is my
duty to inform you of what your servants have communi
cated to me, with a request to make it known to you as

early as possible.

                    " ' Yours, &c.

                         '' ' J. HORSFIELD.

" ' P.S. -- The further route towards Tiga bias is reckoned

worse than that hither by far ; and large packages, as a

table, &C., cannot be transported.
      ' " Wednesday night.'

   " This letter was poor comfort, considering that it con
tinued to rain during the whole of the night.

   " Friday 11th. --As the sun rose, the clouds dispersed,

and, fully determined to overcome every obstacle, we

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  393

started from Campong Baru at seven ; at half-past eight
we reached Lemau Manis ; about two miles from thence

entered the forests, and at half-past eleven overtook Dr.
Horsfield and the advanced party, at the Gedong Beo, or
toll-post of Ayer Malentang, where we halted for the
night. The first miracle wrought was to bring the dead
to life, in the re-appearance of the Coolie, who was reported
to have been lost : this poor fellow had truly enough been
carried away by the flood, but having had the good sense
to lay hold of the branch of a tree which overhung the
river, he afterwards regained the rocks.

    " Our route from Campong Baru to Lemau Manis, and
for about a mile beyond it, lay over a rich plain of saws,
or rice-fields, alternately rising above each other, till we
brought the top of Padang hill on a line with the horizon ;
the soil extremely rich, and the country intersected by
numerous streams ; every indication of an extensive and
industrious population ; sheds, or warongs, as they are
termed in Java, erected for the accommodation of travel

lers, at convenient distances ; and here and there the
vestige of a road, once passable for wheel-carriages. The
vicinity of Lemau Manis affords several beautiful and
commanding situations for the residence of Europeans ;

and should Padang remain permanently under the Eng

lish flag, they would doubtless be immediately resorted to.
The village itself is elevated above the sea about four
hundred feet. This is called the Pau country, in which an

interesting ceremony is understood to attend the annual

394  PULO CHEPADA.

inundation of the rice-fields, by opening the embankments
of the principal river. Lemau Manis is a long straggling
village, or rather plantation, on the romantic banks of a
rapid river, which discharges itself into the sea at Ujung
Karang, and up the stream of which our further course
lay. Here, as well as in several villages we had passed,
we observed a considerable quantity of coffee growing
under the shade of the large fruit-trees, and contiguous to
the houses. Our arrival was welcomed by the beating of
the great drum, or tabu, which has a place in every large
village. This drum is peculiar : it is formed of the trunk
of a large tree, and is at least twenty feet long, hollowed
out, and suspended on a wooden frame, lying horizontally
under an attap shed ; one end only is covered with parch

ment.

   " As the nature of our road, after entering the forest,
has already been described in Dr. Horsfield's letter, it
will be only necessary to observe, that the violence of the
current having abated, we found the route passable. The

ascent was very moderate, but many passages along the
sides of slippery rocks very unsafe. We had frequently
to wade across the stream, and continually to leap, like a
flock of goats, from rock to rock. The native traders
secure their loads in a peculiar manner, by lashing them
fast to a small frame, or stand, which is placed on the
shoulder, and kept steady by being held with one hand
while the leap is made.

   The bed of the river afforded a fine opportunity for

PULO CHEPADA.  395

collecting specimens of minerals ; those we observed were
principally of volcanic origin. Dr. Horsfield noticed

several plants entirely new to him.

   " Our course from Lemau Manis was about E.N.E.,

estimated distance from Campong Baru sixteen miles.
   " The barometer, at the toll-post where we slept, was

28° 55' ; the thermometer, in the morning, 72° ; at two
o'clock p.m., 75°; in the evening, at eight, 69°; our esti
mated height, above the level of the sea, fifteen hundred

feet.

  I" shall not speak of the nature of the accommodation

which we found at this and other toll-posts, further than
by observing that they generally consist of one or more
large sheds, for the reception of the native traders
and travellers, who pay a small sum for being lodged
during the night. Sometimes we had a small division
of the shed to ourselves ; at other times we had not
even this accommodation. When it rained, our whole
party, consisting of not less than three hundred, was
sometimes collected under one shed alone.

    " Saturday, 18th. --Having accomplished our journey

 thus far with less difficulty than we were at first prepared
for, we set out this morning at about half-past seven in
 high spirits, but before we came to our resting-place for
 the night they were pretty well exhausted ; for, in conse
 quence of some misapprehension in the party which had
 gone before us, we had to walk nearly twice the distance
 we had calculated upon, and this over the most fatiguing

396  ASCENT OF GUNUNG DINGIN.

road, with little or nothing to eat or drink. From the
place where we had slept, our course continued up the bed
of the river, but the ascent was much steeper, and the
road far more difficult than on the preceding day. Rocks
piled on rocks, in sublime confusion, roaring cataracts, and
slippery precipices were now to be surmounted. Nothing
could be more romantic and wild than the course which
we had to pass; but in proportion as the scene was
irregular and grand, the road was difficult and laborious,
and ere we had reached the small station of Pulo Che-

pada about noon, we were completely wearied out. At

this place we had directed that a small hut should be
erected, where we might pass the night ; but to our mor
tification we found that the party who had received these

orders had previously proceeded farther on, and left us to
follow them to a more convenient resting-place, said to be

distant about five hours further walk. It was too late to

remedy the evil, for even had we been able to keep out
the rain, which now began to fall, we could not have
remained. Not only our bedding and clothes, but the
cook, with all our eatables and drinkables, had also gone
a-head ; we were therefore compelled to follow, and after
resting about an hour, again set out. From this place we
quitted the bed of the river, and ascended an extremely
steep mountain (Gunung Dingin), the summit of which
we reached with great difficulty at twenty minutes past
four. Here the thermometer was sixty-three, the weather
close and rainy ; estimated height by the barometer five

ASCENT OF GUNUNG DINGIN.  397

thousand two hundred feet ; vegetation stunted, and the
trees covered with moss. From the summit, our descent

to the eastward was more gradual, but for the first hour
principally through a very narrow channel of about two
feet wide, and sometimes four and five feet deep, appa
rently cut as a pathway, but more calculated for a water
course, which in fact it had become, the water being in
most places more than ankle deep. We continued de

scending till dark, when it was with difficulty and danger
we could grope our way for a few yards. The night was
extremely dark ; we were in the centre of a deep forest,
through which the twinkling of a star could not be seen ;
on either side of us were steep precipices of several hun
dred feet ; we had no one with us who knew the road; it
was impossible to distinguish it either by the sight or

touch, and in this miserable predicament, without any
thing to eat or drink (for we could not help agreeing, with
Sancho, that this after all was the worst of the affair), and
not knowing how far we had to go, about seven it began
to rain pretty heavily. We then fired two or three guns, in
the hope that the party a-head would hear us, and sent off
the boldest of our followers in search of a light ; during
the next hour we were continually tantalized by the ap
pearances of lights, which no sooner approached than
they receded, proving but the evanescent glare of the fire

fly, At last a steady light was seen at some distance

through the depth of the forest ; a distant halloo answered
our call, and we were relieved from our anxiety. With this

398  ARRIVAL IN THE TIGA-BLAS.

assistance we reached our destination at half-past eight ;
but many of our party did not get in till midnight ; and

several, giving way to despair, remained in the forest till

the next morning.
   " Between the toll-post we had left and Pulo Chepada,

we suddenly came down upon a small valley of about a
mile in length, clear of forest, and covered with grass

alone, along which a beautiful stream meandered on a fine
bed of pebbles. This was represented to us to have but a

few years since been the bed of a lake, one of the banks of

which gave way during an earthquake : every appearance

corroborated this fact.

   " Our abode for the night was on a detached hill, Bukit
Batu, at the verge of the forest, the Gedung Beo, or toll-
post, a wretched shed, where people of all ranks were in
discriminately accommodated, but in which we found as

substantial comfort and repose as we could have desired
in a palace.

   " Our distance during this day of fatigue we estimated

at not less than twenty miles ; but we all agreed that we

could have walked double that distance on level ground

and good road with less labour.
   " From an opening in the forest, about five in the after

noon, we had our first view of Gunung Berapi, the Wes
tern Peak, emitting a volume of smoke, and bearing
N. by W.

   " The estimated height of Bukit Batu by barometer is
3500 feet. The thermometer at daylight sixty-five.

ARRIVAL IN THE TIGA-BLAS.  399

The toll-post here is under Ganton Chiri, one of the Tiga-
blas Cotas, and seems regulated on the same principle as
that of Ayer Melangtang under Lemau Manis ; each

traveller pays a certain sum according to the goods he

carries--if cloth, iron, or gold, a wang --if siri, and other

inferior articles, a satali or half wang. They are all
adapted for the general object intended, and afford evi
dence of the extent of the traffic carried on. We met
several parties of traders crossing the country towards

Padang.

    " Sunday, 19th. -- As we had now entered the limits of

the Tiga-blas country, our further progress depended
upon the good-will of the Chiefs, who are here entirely

independent of European authority. It was intimated

to us, that we should arrive at Solo Solaya, the intended
termination of our present day's journey, by eleven or
twelve o'clock ; and as we had scarcely recovered from the
last day's fatigue, we determined to breakfast before we
moved. While partaking of this meal, several of the
Chiefs of the Tiga-blas country were announced ; and a
party who stated themselves to be the representatives of
two-thirds of that country were introduced. After the
usual compliments, they proceeded to the business of
their visit, and being informed of my wish to proceed
without delay, very quietly stated that they had already
taken the subject into consideration, that they had been
discussing it since daylight, and had at last come to the
resolution, that as they were only two-thirds of the Chiefs,

400 ARRIVAL IN THE TIGA-BLAS.

and the other third had not arrived, they would come to
no decision at all, but proposed as an accommodation

Ithat I should remain where was for three days, after

which, a final decision should be immediately passed. This
proposition I, of course, treated very lightly, and in a few
words intimated my determination to proceed as soon as
breakfast should be over. While the chiefs were deli

berating upon what answer they should make, the arrival
of the remaining third was announced, and the conference

broke up, in order that a general consultation might be

Iheld. As soon as breakfast was over, went out to see

what was going on. The Chiefs, after sitting down in a
circle, and debating for about an hour, arose, and the
parties dispersed, in order that the newly-arrived Chiefs
might think on the subject by themselves and advise with

their followers. They accordingly adjourned to an opposite
hill, on which several hundred people had collected. Here
they continued in conference till ten o'clock, when finding

Ithere was no chance of a speedy termination, ordered my

party to be in readiness to move. We were no sooner in
motion than the Chiefs again assembled in council, and it

Iwas requested that would wait ten minutes longer ;

wanting the patience to do this, and determined at once
to break through this tedious delay, to which it was to be
feared we should be subjected in passing the boundary of

Ievery petty state, walked into the middle of the circle,

and demanded that they should say in one word what was
required, on which the most respectable-looking man

         RECEPTION BY THE NATIVES.      401

among them answered Sa tali sa pail--that is to say,

twenty dollars ; the money was immediately tendered, we
shook hands, the utmost cordiality and good understand

ing instantly prevailed, and we were permitted to proceed

on our journey without further hesitation.

  " It was now between ten and eleven o'clock : our course

on the descent lay partly through a wood, and partly

over several cleared hills, cultivated with coffee, indigo, &c.

In about an hour after starting, the country opened ; and

we had the gratifying view of the Tiga-blas country, an

extensive and highly cultivated plain, bounded to the

south by the noble mountain of Talang.
   " After descending the hills, and reaching the plain, our

course lay entirely along the narrow ridges or embankments

raised between the rice-fields until we reached the market

place, distinguished by several large waringin or banyan
trees. Here we halted and partook of different kinds of

fruits presented to us. In our course from Bukit Batu to

the place, our party had been strengthened until it
amounted to several thousands--the people of the country

being collected at the different eminences near where we

passed ; they welcomed us as they joined, the throng, by

the most discordant howls and cheers which can be well

conceived. Arrived at the market-place, they formed an

extensive circle several rows deep, the front row squatting ;

nearly the whole were armed with spears, and among them

were some women. One old woman made herself very

conspicuous by her attentions, and when a little alarm was

vol. i.                             2d

402 RECEPTION BY THE NATIVES.

evinced by Lady Raffles, on account of the violence of the

howling and cheering, she was the first to assure us no
harm was meant ; it was only the way of the hill-people,

who took this mode to show their delight, and how happy

Ithey were to see us. On the whole, cannot well conceive

anything more savage than the manners of this noisy

party, from the time the Chiefs joined us until we left

the market-place. It was evident they wished to give us

an hospitable reception.  I* * *  will only

add, that before they suffered us to proceed beyond the
market-place, a new consultation was held, which lasted

more than half-an-hour, when another douceur became

necessary. We then prosecuted our journey to the towns
of Solo Solaya, which were considered as the first in rank
of the Tiga-blas Cotas, and about four o'clock reached our

destination. Here, after having been kept for half-an-hour
in the Bali, or town-hall, we were accommodated in a very

commodious planked house, which appeared to be the resi

dence of one of the principal Chiefs.
   " Finding ourselves among a set of people who exhi

bited in their manners so much of the savage, we deter

mined to keep our party close together, and whenever
any general movement was made, to call in the aid of the

drum and fife, which fortunately we had brought with us :

this imperfect music, most wretchedly performed, seemed

to have a great effect upon the people.

  I" have now once more led your Grace across the

Barisan, or chain of mountains, which had hitherto so

DESCRIPTION OF THE COUNTRY.  403

effectually opposed the approach of Europeans to the rich

and populous countries in the interior. In a former

I Iletter, attempted to express the delight with which

first viewed the fertile valley of Pasumah, after spending

Ithree days in the forests. Here was certainly prepared

Ito find a country still more fertile and populous, and

was not disappointed. The whole of the plain, or val

ley, (I hardly know what to call it,) occupied by the

Tigasblas Cotas, or Thirteen Confederate Towns, is one
sheet of cultivation : in breadth it may be about ten, and

in length twenty miles, thickly studded with towns and

villages, some of them running in a connected line for

several miles ; this was the case with the town of Solo

Solaya, where we put up. The town of Solaya joins that
of Solo, whence the Chiefs are usually denominated to be
of Solo Solaya ; a third town, called Cola-baru, is again

only separated from these by a river: the whole are

shaded by extensive groves of cocoa-nut trees.
   " On the slopes of the hills, the principal cultivation is

coffee, indigo, maize, sugar-cane, and the oil-giving

plants ; on the plain below, almost exclusively rice. The

"was, or rice-fields, are here managed exactly on the
Jpriinciple of the mountain sawas in ava, and the soil and
Aproduce seem equally good.  fine breed of small cattle,

which seems peculiar, abounds here and throughout the

Menankabu country : oxen seem to be generally used in

agriculture, in preference to buffaloes ; they are in general

about three feet four inches high, beautifully made, and

                                                 2d2

404  DESCRIPTION OF THE COUNTRY.

mostly of a light fawn colour, with black eyes and lashes,
and are sold at from three to four dollars a-head. They
are, without exception, the most beautiful little animals of

Ithe kind ever beheld : we did not see one in bad condi

tion. Horses, of which there seems to be plenty, are not
much used : for a mare and foal the price was four dollars,

twenty shillings.
    " On entering the country, we were struck by the

costume of the people, which is now anything but Malay,
the whole being clad according to the custom of the Orang
Putis, or Padris, that is to say, in white or blue, with
turbans, and allowing their beards to grow, in conformity
with the ordinances of Tuanku Pasaman, the religious
reformer. Unaccustomed to wear turbans, and by nature
deficient in beard, these poor people make but a sorry
appearance in their new costume. The women, who are
also clad in white or blue cloth, do not appear to the best
advantage in this new costume; many of them conceal
their heads under a kind of hood, through which an open
ing is made sufficient to expose their eyes and nose
alone; but we observed some general customs in their
dress which are not perhaps attributable to the recent
reformation. The women invariably wear their hair
parted over the forehead, and combed smooth down the
sides ; and the children and young girls were frequently
seen with their hair plaited down the back, after the

manner of the Chinese. All the women have the lobe of

the ear distended to an enormous extent, in order to

SOLO SOLA Y A.  405

 receive an immense ear-ring, or rather wheel, which it

 more resembles : this is usually about two inches in

 diameter, and differently ornamented ; some are of wood,

ornamented with silver, others of copper, &c.
    " The people in general are by no means good-looking;

neither in stature nor countenance do they equal the

 Pasumahs ; they are decidedly a less ingenuous people ;

their manners, if anything, more rude and uncultivated ;

but their agriculture, their comforts, and their condition,

certainly superior.

   " Monday, 20th. --This day was spent at Solo Solaya.

IAbout noon was 'informed that all the Chiefs of the

adjoining districts had assembled, and were desirous of a
conference. In number they amounted to some hundreds,

Iand therefore requested they would select ten or twenty,
Iwith whom could personally confer. After about an
Ihour's disputing, and when found by their clamour that
Ithey were likely to separate in disorder, was compelled

Ito say would confer with the whole of them, if they

wished it. They accordingly assembled in the vicinity of
the Bali, or town-hall; and having formed a circle, in

Iwhich a place was reserved for me, took my seat with

all the state which circumstances admitted. The object

of my visit was then inquired into, and the propriety of

allowing the Dutch to return to Padang discussed with

much vehemence, until one and all declared the Dutch

never should return. To enforce this declaration, the

foremost stuck their spears in the ground and set up a

406 GOLD MINES.

shout. A letter was then written to the King of Eng

land, and signed by the principal Chiefs; and other

agreements, of a political nature, entered into. A trans

Ilation of the letter to the King of England enclose to

your Grace, as a political document of high import.
   " This business terminated, a general shout announced

the conclusion of the conference. Each of the principal
Chiefs was presented with a piece of British broad-cloth,
three volleys of musketry were fired, and the drum and fife
playing ' God save the King,' they escorted me home, in

the most ridiculous state that can be conceived.
   " The remainder of the day was passed in examining

the town and making inquiries.

  I" These towns found had little to do with commerce ;

the inhabitants are almost exclusively devoted to agricul

ture ; and to this cause the native merchants who were

with me attributed the want of civilization among them.
' The people of those towns,' said they, ' which lie on the

road to the gold mines, and where they understand how
to trade, are of very different manners : these people,
though considering themselves as of most importance,
have always been noted for their rude and obstinate

Ibehaviour.' This account had subsequently reason to

believe was pretty correct. The Tiga-blas country has
always been famed for its produce in gold ; indeed, to
Europeans it has been known as a gold country alone.
To find it also in a high degree agricultural was more

Ithan expected. Hitherto the country through which

ARRIVAL AT SOLAYA.  407

we passed was exclusively volcanic ; the rocks for the
most part basaltic; a hot-spring, 108° of Fahrenheit,

close to the town, and two burning mountains in sight ;
no evidences of primitive formations ; no indications what
ever of metals. We had therefore to look for the gold
mines beyond the immediate confines of the Tiga-blas
country ; and we soon ascertained the principal mines to
be situated, some at two and three, and others as far as

ten and twelve, days' journey distant, in a south-eastern
direction. The principal mines are those of Sungy Pagu
and Sungy Abu, which are marked on the map as lying
at the back of Gunung Talang. On the extent and value

Iof these mines shall have occasion hereafter to make
Isome observations ; for the present, will confine myself

more particularly to that part of the Tiga-blas country
through which we passed.

   " On entering the town of Solaya, we passed through

the burial-ground, distinguished by a very large waringin-

tree and several tombs built of wood, here termed jiri :

these are peculiar, sometimes little more than a shed, but

frequently with a raised flooring, and seats raised one
above the other at each end, like the stern of a vessel.

Several of these were observed outside of the town, and in

the middle of the rice-fields : these, we were informed, had

been raised in memory of persons who had died at a dis
tance ; they now served as a shelter for the children, when
watching the birds as the rice ripened, and as places of
amusement for the younger branches of the family. The

408  DESCRIPTION OF THE TOWN OF SOLA Y A.

 waringin, or banyan trees, reminded me very much of

IJava; they are here even larger than any ever observed

in that country. Nothing in the vegetable creation can
well exceed the peaceful grandeur of these trees.

    " The houses are for the most part extensive and well
built ; in length seldom less than sixty feet ; the interior,
one long hall, with several small chambers in the rear
opening into it. In the front of each house are generally
two lombongs, or granaries, on the same principle as those
in Java, but much longer and more substantial : they were
not less than thirty feet high, and capable of holding an
immense quantity ; many of them were very highly orna
mented, various flowers and figures being carved on the
uprights and cross-beams ; some of them coloured. The

taste for ornament is not confined to the lombongs ; the
wood-work of most of the houses is carved, and coloured
with red, white, and black. The ridge-poles of the
houses, lombongs, &C., have a peculiar appearance, in
being extremely concave, the ends or points of the crescent

being very sharp. In the larger houses they give the
appearance of two roofs, one crescent being, as it were,
within another. The whole of the buildings are con
structed in the most substantial manner, but entirely of

wood and matting.

  " In the evening, I was much amused by the return of

the cattle from pasture. To every house there appeared

attached several head of cattle : these came in, as the sun

declined, of their own accord, and were severally secured

   DEPARTURE FROM SOLAYA.                   409

by the children and women, the cattle being quite as

docile as those in Europe, in which respect they form

a striking contrast to those on the coast, which are; for

the most part, too wild to be approached.
   " Being anxious to refresh myself in the river which

Ipassed at the back of the town, inquired for a convenient

place to bathe : my intention was no sooner intimated, than

the women of the village flocked round me, and insisted on

accompanying me to the place ; but, however great their

I

            is
                                      it

                                                                                  it,

                                                                aI
curiosity, my modesty did not allow me to gratify and

was content to disappoint myself as well as them.

   " It now, however, time to proceed on the journey, lest

tire you on the way.

" Tuesday, 21st. -- At day-light the drum was beaten,

and every thing in readiness for our departure, when

serious difficulty was started. In the distribution of the

presents the day before,  was stated that one piece of

cloth had been stolen, and that the Chiefs of Solo had in

consequence received one piece less than those of Solaya.
This was represented as likely to be the occasion of a feud

between the two people after my departure.  would wil
                          ;
                                               ;

                                           II
                                              I

                                                                                  a
lingly have given another piece of cloth, but found the

whole statement to be an imposition for when offered

to do so, new demur arose the Chiefs of Solo came in
a

        ;

      II
body, saying that had slept two nights in Solaya, and not
one in Solo that had therefore done more honour to

the former that the two towns had always maintained an
;

equality, which was now lost, unless would consent also
                          I

410  JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

Ito stay two nights at Solo. This represented to be im

possible ; the Chiefs of both towns had received me at the

boundary, and it was left with them to conduct me whither

they pleased ; they took me to Solaya ; the drum was now

I Ibeating, and must be off.  promised, however, to visit

Solo on my return ; but nothing would pacify them, and

Iwe had very nigh come to an open rupture. At last,

gave the piece of cloth to the Chiefs of Solo, and a written

certificate that the important point should be regularly

discussed after my return to Padang, where the Chiefs

were invited to proceed, should any bad blood remain. At

length, with the greatest difficulty, we got clear out of the

town, and bent our course across the plain towards the

Lake of Sincara, which we expected to reach in the course

of the day.
   " During this day's journey, which lay through one of

Ithe most highly cultivated countries ever passed, we

were subjected to several gross impositions. On first

leaving Solo Solaya, we had to find our way without

guides ; but we had not proceeded many miles, when, on

being at a loss which way to proceed, some men immedi

ately came forward and offered their services as guides,

provided we would pay them in the first instance ; this we

at first declined, but at length were forced to give in;

but they no sooner got the money than they took an early

opportunity to decamp. To our surprise, however, we

soon fell in with the Chiefs of the towns which we had

left ; they had proceeded by a shorter route, and now pre

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  411

sented themselves as guides. They did not, however,
allow us to pursue our journey for more than a mile at a
time without stopping to consult ; and the whole country
being raised as we proceeded, it was impossible for us to

oppose their will. In this manner they detained us at

least six or seven times in the course of two hours, nor

would they allow us to proceed until we paid them a cer
tain sum, by way of customs, for the liberty of passing
through the country ; all hands seemed determined to get

something by us. At last, about half-past nine, we reached

the termination of that part of the plain under the Tiga-
blas Chiefs, who after making their last demand, insisted
on our remaining half-an-hour, to see them exhibit in a
tournament, to which we were obliged to submit, notwith
standing the excessive heat of the sun, from which we had

no shelter. At ten o'clock we obtained a view of the lake,

and about eleven we reached Kasi ; at twelve we arrived
at Sindangbaher, a populous town on the banks of the
lake, where we remained for the night. Both here and at
 Kasi, we were received, comparatively, with politeness and

 attention : the people seemed to have some respect for
 authority, and it was evident they had the advantage of
 more general intercourse with strangers. We were, in the
 first instance, conducted to the large waringin-tree, under
 the shade of which the Chiefs and people assembled to re

 ceive us, and where cocoa-nuts and fruits were presented,

 At Kasi the most particular attention was paid to us,

 owing, most probably, to its being the native town of one

 412 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

 of the principal merchants who accompanied us, and who
 seemed to possess much influence here.

    " The town of Sindangbaher is situated about a mile
 from the banks of the lake, on a fine stream. The build

 ings, &c. are much in the same style as at Solo Solaya,
 but not so substantial or numerous, many of them having
 been burnt during the late civil war. But the most
 interesting object before us was the lake, across which our
 course lay to Menangkabu : of this an account will be
 given in the next day's journey.

   I" Of the country through which we had passed shall

only observe, that our course this day lay through the
richest corn-fields, and frequently on the slope of a low
range of hills on the western side of the plain. The fer
tility of the plain fully equalled any part of Java, and par
ticularly about Kasi and in the vicinity of the lake, where
the rice-fields evinced an uncommon luxuriance : they
were here in full cultivation, the rice in all its stages, but
chiefly in ear. The plain gradually narrowed as we ap
proached the lake ; and between the rice-fields under the
Tiga-blas country, and those of Kasi, we passed an uncut
tivated tract, but even this was cleared, and covered with
a short sod, affording excellent pasture for cattle, of which
there were great abundance. Many parts reminded us of
the beautiful district of Serayu, the pride of Java.

   " We estimated our journey this day at twelve miles,
and Lady Raffles had the advantage of being carried a
considerable part of the way in a chair, but in passing

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  413

through the rice-fields in cultivation, the embankments
which formed the foot-paths were too narrow to admit of

this aid.
   " We estimated the height of Sindangbaher, above the

level of the sea, eleven hundred feet ; that of Solo Solaya

we also ascertained, by the barometer, to be twelve hun
dred feet : so that the plain gradually descends from
Great Talang, its southern boundary to the lake, of the
bed of which, in early days, it may probably have formed
part, being bounded to the west by the high range of
mountains, and to the east by the ranges of low hills,
which in their continuation confine the waters of the lake

as at present defined.

  I" Of the population of the Tiga-blas country shall

hereafter have occasion to speak ; and here it may only be

Inecessary to notice, that from the best information could

obtain on the spot, we formed a loose estimate that it could
not fall far short of eighty thousand souls.

    " The dawn of Wednesday found us on the banks of

the lake, shipping our baggage, and embarking for Sima-
wang. We should have started the preceding night, but

 the boats had not arrived ; even now we had but one at

 our command, and in this we proceeded, leaving the
 heaviest part of the baggage, the escort, and coolies, to
 follow by land, should no other boat be procurable in the

 course of the day.
    " This beautiful sheet of water, called the Danau, or

 lake of Sincara, is about fourteen miles long, and on the

414 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

broadest part seven, surrounded by mountains and hills,
except towards the Tiga-blas country, where a plain of its
own width gradually sinks into its bosom. Proceeding
northward, we had on our left the high mountains which
form the Barisan or boundary of the sea-coast districts, in
height from five to seven thousand feet, at the foot of
which, on the margin of the lake for two or three miles
deep, were rice-fields, plantations, and villages, rising suc
cessively above each other. On the sides of the moun
tains themselves, nearly to the summit of the first ridge,
the forest had been cleared and cultivation carried. The

opposite side, as well as the northern part of the lake, is
confined by a succession of low hills, which in their con
stitution we found to be essentially different from the high
volcanic ridges we had passed over, being primitive, and
abounding in metals : among these the most conspicuous,

and lying nearly north, was the Gunung Besi, or Hill of

Iron, which from time immemorial has been the principal
source whence these districts have been supplied with that
metal. Behind these, a little to the westward, rises the
Berapi, a grand volcanic mountain, emitting smoke from
its western peak, and towering in the clouds to the height
of at least ten thousand feet above the lake itself. Far
ther west, connecting its base with that of the Berapi, is
the Gunung Sincalang, another insulated mountain, in
height about eight thousand feet. To the eastward of
Berapi, and nearly over Simawang, as we approached it
we obtained a glimpse of the stupendous mountain of

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  415

Kasumba, the estimated height of which is not less than
fifteen thousand feet. To the southward, the view was
bounded by Gunung Talang, lying at the extremity of
the Tiga-blas country, at the back of which we observed
a ridge still higher than itself.

   " On the banks of the lake are situated seven principal

towns with their numerous villages and hamlets : these

being shaded by trees form so many groves, the dark
foliage of which pleasingly contrasts with the bright tints
of the rice plantations, in the middle of which they are
situated. The beach is a bright sand, and cultivation im

mediately commences. At each of these towns a weekly

market is held, to which the traders, &c. from the other
towns and adjacent countries repair by water. The canoes
are numerous, and each town has one or two large boats,

capable of carrying six tons, and one hundred men : it
was in one of these that we embarked. These large boats

are well built, and at a distance, when filled with people,
have very much the appearance of the large war-boats of

the South Sea Islands. At a short distance from Sin-

dangbaher, and where the lake was said to be by no means
deep, we obtained bottom with a deep-sea lead at sixty-
eight fathoms, but subsequently in attempting to ascer
tain the depth more in the centre, we found no bottom
with one hundred and eighty fathoms. The shores are
easy of access, and no rocks or shoals exist to obstruct its

navigation. It abounds in fish, and the inhabitants pro

416 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

cure lime by burning a small shell of the mussel kind
found on its banks.

   " As we approached Simawang, a very peculiar hill,

with three ragged peaks, was pointed out to us as lying
immediately at the back of Pageruyong, the capital of the
Menangkabu country. This hill, Gunung Bongso, will
be hereafter noticed.

   " We had embarked at a quarter-past eight, it was now
half-past one, when we landed at the foot of the hill on
which Samawang is situated, and at the source of the
Kuantau or Indragiri river, which issues from the lake of
Sincara at this place. We had a very hot and fatiguing
walk for above an hour in ascending the hill, but were
amply repaid for our labour by the friendly and cordial
reception we met with at the summit, where the head
of the village, a venerable old man, quietly conducted us
into his dwelling, and made every preparation for our
comfort without subjecting us to exposure under the
waringin-tree, or any of the ridiculous and annoying cere
monies and delays to which we had in former instances
been liable.

   " The house in which we were now accommodated was
in length about one hundred feet, and from thirty to forty
in depth, built in a most substantial manner, and sup
ported along the centre by three large wooden pillars, fit
for the masts of a ship : indeed, from the peculiar con
struction of the house, the gable end of which was raised

         JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  417

in tiers like the stern of a vessel, they had very much this
appearance. The floor was raised from the ground about

ten feet, the lower part being inclosed and appropriated

to cattle, &c. The principal entrance is about the centre,

but there is a second door at one end. The interior con

sists of one large room or hall, the height proportioned to

the other dimensions ; three fire-places, equally distant

from each other, were placed on the front side, and at the

back were several small chambers, in which we perceived

the spinning-wheels and other articles belonging to the

women. This may serve as a general description for the

Ihouses in this part of the country, which have described

thus particularly, because they differ essentially from
those on the coast, and from what Mr. Marsden has de

scribed as the usual dwellings of the Sumatrans.
   " Notwithstanding the room in which we were accom

modated was so commodious, we suffered more from the

heat at this place than elsewhere, on account of the

great number of people admitted, and the number of
fires. That end of the hall which rose in tiers, like the

stern of a ship, was set apart for Lady Baffles and me,

and separated from the rest by mats. The number at

one time accommodated in this caravansera did not fall

short of a hundred- and-fifty persons.

  I" As must have pretty well tired your Grace with the
Idetail of this day's journey, will close the account, and

proceed to the next.

   " Thursday, 23rd July. --The town of Simawang oc-

vol. i.  2E

418 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

cupies the summit of a hill elevated above the banks of
the lake about five hundred feet, and commands if most
beautiful prospect. Notwithstanding this elevation, there
are hills in the vicinity of greater height, which give it the
advantage of several streams. These are directed into
numerous channels, and fertilize the country in the imme
diate vicinity, which is for the most part cut into terraces,
and cultivated with rice. The river Ulu Kuantau, as it is
here called, but which is the source of the Indragiri river,
(which, after pursuing a south-easterly course across the
country, discharges itself into the sea on the eastern side
of the island,) is seen to issue from the lake at the foot of
the hill, dashing with great rapidity over the rocks as it
winds along the valley. The lake itself, serene and
placid, insensible of the loss it sustains, is always the
same. No sooner, however, are its waters withdrawn
from its bosom, than they are made subservient to the
purposes of man. Not fifty yards from the source of the
river we observed a well-constructed water-wheel, by
means of which the adjacent fields were irrigated. These
wheels, which are composed principally of bamboo, are
well adapted for their object. They are in general use in
the Menangkabu country, and may be considered as an
improvement in agriculture to which even the Javans
have not advanced, notwithstanding their long connexion
with the Chinese. As neither Europeans nor Chinese
had hitherto penetrated the Menangkabu country, and
the natives themselves, for many centuries at least, have

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.    419

had little or no intercourse with foreigners, these wheels

Imay be considered of native invention.  had formerly

occasion to notice one on the Manna river, and in the

IMusi country am told they are common. I do not

recollect to have seen anything of the kind in Java.
   " On those slopes of the hills which cannot conveniently

be cut into terraces, or where streams of water cannot be

carried, sugar-cane is the principal article. Of this the

cultivation is considerable, and very neatly constructed

mills for expressing the juice, which is afterwards manu

factured into a coarse sugar, are common. They consist

of two perpendicular cylinders, the upper ends of which

are formed into screws or grooves, which fit into each

other so that the cylinders, which at the bottom are fixed

into a stand, and are turned by an ox, revolve different

ways. The expressed juice is received in a reservoir below.

  " It was near Simawang that we first found feldspar,

granite, quartz, and other minerals of a primitive forma

tion. They were here mixed with a variety of volcanic

productions in the greatest confusion, strongly indicating

that this part of the country had at some distant period

been subjected to violent convulsions. Dr. Horsfield got

specimens of these, which he gave in charge to some coolies

who attended him ; after the day's journey he wished to

examine this collection ; the men produced their baskets

full of stones, but on the Doctor's exclaiming they were

not what he had given them, and expressing some anger

on the occasion, they simply observed, they thought he

2e2

420 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

only wanted stones, and they preferred carrying their

baskets empty, so they threw away what he gave them,
and filled them up at the end of the day's journey,

and they were sure they had given him more than he

collected.                           We were now in a

   " But to proceed on our journey.

country abounding with metals ; iron ore of various kinds

lay in our path, and it was not long before we were to be

in the vicinity of the gold mines.
   " We left Simawang at half-an-hour before seven, and

reached Suruasa, the second city of the Menangkabu

country, and in the immediate vicinity of Pageruyong,

about one o'clock, the road nearly the whole way lying

over a range of low primitive hills, and the distance about
twelve miles. After descending the hill of Simawang, we

crossed the river by a most romantic hanging bridge,
which swung in a very nervous manner as we passed one
by one. We soon came into a country entirely primitive,
or rather composed of the debris of primitive matter ; we

passed over several hills, said to contain gold, and saw ex

tensive excavations, where the miners had been at work ;

these, however, cannot be considered as regular mines,

and they are not reckoned very valuable. The excava
tions, however, afforded us a fine opportunity of noticing

the direction of the strata, and other appearances inter
esting to the geologist. About eleven o'clock we obtained

our first view of Pageruyong.
   " Shortly after this view our path, which had hitherto

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  421

been narrow, and sometimes steep and broken, widened, and

it was evident we were approaching the vicinity of some
place of importance : but, alas ! little was left for our

curiosity but the wreck of what had once been great and
populous. The waringin trees, which shaded and added

solemnity to the palace, were yet standing in all their
majesty. The fruit-trees, and particularly the cocoa-nut,
marked the distant boundaries of this once extensive city ;
but the rank grass had usurped the halls of the palace,

and scarce was the thatch of the peasant to be found ; three

times has the city been committed to the flames. Well

might I say, in the language of the Brata Yudha, ' Sad

and melancholy was her waringin tree, like unto the sor
row of a wife whose husband is afar.'

   " On our arrival at Suruasa we were conducted to the
best dwelling which the place now afforded --to the palace,
a small planked house of about thirty feet long, beautifully
situated on the banks of the Golden River (Soongy Amas.)
Here we were introduced to the Tuan Gadis, or Virgin
Queen, who administered the country. We were received

with all the satisfaction and kindness that could be ex

Ipected. It was a scene which made me melancholy, and

will not attempt to describe it.
   " The extensive population and high state of cultivation

by which we were surrounded, seemed to confirm the

Iopinion had always formed, and even publicly maintained,

as you may see in my History of Java, that the Malayan
empire was not of recent origin, and that in its zenith it

422 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

was of comparative rank, if not the rival and contemporary

of Java. The Malays have always excited considerable spe
culation from the circumstance of their being evidently in a
retrograde state ; but where were we to look for their his

tory ? In their literary compositions they seldom go farther

back than the introduction of Mahomedanism, except to
give an account of Noah's ark, or some romantic tale from

which little or nothing can be gathered. It was my good

fortune in Java to discover the vestiges of a former high
state of literature and the arts, in poems, in the ruins of

temples, in sculptured images, in ancient inscriptions.
Nothing of this kind was supposed to exist among the
Malays ; Java was therefore considered as the cradle of
the arts and sciences, as far as they had been introduced
into the Archipelago. The Malays were even stated to
have derived their origin from Java, from the Javan word
Malayu, meaning a runaway; they were said to be the

runaways and outcasts of Java. You may see all this,
and much more to the disadvantage of the Malays, stated
in the Forty-first Number of the Edinburgh Review. Your

IGrace may therefore judge with what interest now sur

veyed a country which, at least as far as the eye could reach,
equalled Java in scenery and cultivation ; and with what

Ireal satisfaction stumbled, by the merest accident, upon

nothing but an inscription in the real Kawi character, en
graved on a stone, exactly after the manner of those which
have excited so much interest in Java. Immediately op

Iposite the house, or palace, which have described, was

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  423

the mosque, a small square building. In front of the

mosque, turned up on its edge, and serving as a stepping-

stone to this modern place of Mahomedan worship, was this

Irelic of Hindu dominion.  soon traced the characters to

be the same as those we had discovered in Java. All

hands were immediately collected. In about an hour we

succeeded in laying the stone flat on the ground, and the

operation of transcribing was immediately commenced.

The evening did not pass without further inquiries. A

second inscription, in similar characters, was discovered

near the site of the former kudam, or palace. This was
on a stone of irregular figure, and partly buried in the
ground. We had only time to transcribe two lines of this.

On Friday, the 24th of July, we left Suruasa at seven, and

arrived at Pageruyong a quarter before nine, the estimated

distance between the two cities being not more than two

miles ; the road over low hills, in which we observed nu

merous petrifactions : whole forests would appear, in some

remote age, to have been buried by some violent convul

sion. Passing along the sides of the hills, our attention

was repeatedly attracted by the numerous stumps and
trunks of trees in a state of petrifaction. These were

mostly protruded from considerable depths under ground.

   " In quitting Suruasa we noticed several small tanks

and passed over the site of many an extensive building
now no more. The only vestige, however, of anything

like sculpture, beyond the inscriptions already alluded to,

424 JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

was in four cut stones, which evidently had formerly served
for the entrance of the city.

    " In approaching Pageruyong we had an excellent view

Iof the situation of this once famous city. It is built, as

before noticed, at the foot, and partly on the slope of a
steep and rugged hill called Gunug Bongso, so remarkable
for its appearance and the three peaks which it exhibits.
Below the town, under a precipice of from fifty to a hundred
feet, in some parts nearly perpendicular, winds the beau
tiful stream of Selo, which, pursuing its course, passes
Suruasa, where it takes the name of the Golden River,
and finally falls into the river Indragiri. In front of the
city rises the mountain Berapi, the summit of which may

be about twenty miles distant. It is on the slopes of this

mountain that the principal population is settled, the
whole side of the mountain, for about fifteen miles from
Pageruyong in every direction, being covered with villages
and rice-fields. The entrance to the city, which is now
only marked by a few venerable trees, and the traces of
what was once a high-way, is nearly three-quarters of a
mile before we came to the Bali and site of the former

palace. Here little is left save the noble waringin trees,
and these appear in several instances to have suffered from
the action of fire : scarcely the appearance of a hut is to
be seen ; the large flat stone, however, on which the Sultan
used to sit on days of public ceremony, was pointed out to
us ; and when the weeds had been partially cleared, the

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  425

royal burial-ground was discovered. In this we did not

discover any inscription in the ancient character ; but the
ground was but very partially and hastily examined. We
were struck, however, with the sculpture of later days, the

memorials of the dead raised in Mahomedan times ; these

were on a small scale, but very beautifully executed.
   " Arrangements had been made for our accommodation

in a small house recently erected on the banks of the river,

to which we descended. Here we remained for some time ;

but intending to return to Suruasa in the afternoon, I

left the party and wandered for an hour or two.

   "This city had shared the same fate with that of

Suruasa. Three times had it been committed to the

flames by a remorseless fanatic ; twice had it again risen
to something like splendour : from the last shock it had not

yet recovered. The Prince, no longer able to make a

stand against the oppressor, had fled to a distant retreat ;

and a few peasants now cultivated those spots which had

formerly been the pleasure-grounds of the rich. Where

Ithe palace of the Sultan had stood,  observed a man

planting cucumbers, and the sugar-cane occupied the

place of the seraglio. From the heights of the town the

view stretched to the north and west, as far as the sum

mit of the mountain of Berapi and the neighbouring hills.

The whole country, from Pageruyong, as far as the eye

could distinctly trace, was one continued scene of culti

vation, interspersed with innumerable towns and villages,

426  JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OB- SUMATRA.

shaded by the cocoa-nut and other fruit-trees.  I may
safely say, that this view equalled anything    I ever

saw in Java; the scenery is more majestic and grand,

population equally dense, cultivation equally rich. In a

comparison with the plain of Matarun, the richest part

Iof Java, think it would rise. Here, then, for the first

Itime, was able to trace the source of that power, the

origin of that nation, so extensively scattered over the

Eastern Archipelago.

  "I returned to the party where the Tuan Gadis and

Princes of the house of Menangkabu had assembled. A

royal salute of one gun was fired, and after three cheers,

we set out on our return to Suruasa.

  " But I must not quit this (to a Malay) classic ground,

without informing you of a most interesting discovery. At

I ISuruasa had discovered two inscriptions : here looked

for them in vain, but unexpectedly stumbled upon some

thing no less interesting : a Hindu image, chastely and

beautifully carved, corresponding with those discovered in

Java, and evidently the work of similar artists, and the

object of a similar worship. This image was mutilated,

but in sufficient preservation to decide thus much.
   " The estimated height of Pageruyong above the level

of the sea is 1800 feet. In Mr. Marsden's map, Page

ruyong is placed at about eighty-two miles N. E. of

Padang, and sixty-six from the coast. By our obser

vations we found it to be not more than fifty miles from

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  427

Padang, and forty-five from the coast, in a straight line ;

the latitude being 14' south, and longitude twenty-eight
miles east of Padang, or 100° 20' east of Greenwich.

   " We returned to Suruasa about three o'clock, and in

Ithe evening visited an extensive excavation where gold

had been procured in considerable quantities.
   " On the next day, Saturday the 25th, we left Suruasa

at half-past six, and reached Simawang on our return
towards Padang, at half-past eleven. Here we remained

till Sunday evening, when, to be prepared for an early

departure on the next morning, we descended to the lake

and bivouacked on the banks for the night, literally lying

down on the ground. While collecting specimens of

Iminerals on this spot, discovered another inscription in

the Kawi character, the characters of which were nearly
obliterated by the constant action of the water. This

stone was lying among the rocks over which the waters of

the lake fell into the Indragiri river.
   " Monday. --The baggage having been embarked on

the preceding evening, we rose at four, and by day-light

were nearly half-way across the lake ; four large boats in

company, which conveyed the whole of the party.
   " Besides the pass into the Tiga-blas country, by

which we had passed from Padang, there are three other

principal passes leading to the Menangkabu country, at
Kati, Sindangbaher, and Paningahan ; that at Sindang-

baher, called the Sri-menenti, (the same term that is used
in Java for the entrance to the palace,) appeared to be

428  JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

the most frequented, but the road was said to lie along

the beds of several rivers : that of Kasi had nothing par

ticular to recommend it ; but the pass of Paningahan,

though the longest, was said to be the most practicable

Ifor cattle, and to run principally on dry ground.  there

fore determined to proceed by the last, in the hope of

tracing something like a road which would admit of im

provement.

   " We accordingly quitted Paningahan on our return
across the Barisen about eight o'clock, and reached the

Gedong Papan, or planked-house (a toll-post), about
twelve. Contrary to our expectation, our course so far
lay almost entirely along the bed of a rapid stream.
Lady Raffles being fatigued, we rested at this place for
the night ; but several of the party went on to the next
resting-place. The ascent hitherto had been gradual, and
the scenery very romantic, the distance from the lake esti

mated at six miles in a south-west direction. In a mine-

ralogical point of view, this ascent from the lake was by
far the most interesting we had met with. We here
found abundance of granite, marble, great varieties of
limestone, beautiful masses of calcareous spar, and a
variety of subjects with which we enriched our col

lection.

   " Tuesday, 28th July. --Left the Gedong Papan at six,

and ascended the mountains, our course being near the
banks of a rapid stream which we frequently crossed for

the whole of the morning. At half-past nine reached

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  429

another toll-post, where we overtook the advanced party
and obtained some refreshment I set out again at eleven,
and continued ascending till three o'clock, when we reached
the summit of the highest ridge. The thermometer was

here sixty-six --on the water, sixty-three: height above
the level of the sea, four thousand five hundred feet. We
now descended till six, when, just as the day was closing

in, we reached the toll-post of Sambung, after a most
fatiguing day's journey. The road was execrable, in some

parts wet and muddy, and exceedingly difficult to pass --

estimated distance from the Gedong Papan not less than

twenty miles.

   " Wednesday, 29th. -- Started from Sambung at seven

in the morning, and ascended the Sambung mountain
until near ten, when we had the satisfaction to find that
the remainder of our journey was a descent down to the
sea-side. The road, however, was even worse than what

we had passed the day before, the descent being very
rapid, and the only firm hold which our feet could have
being upon the roots of trees, which intersected the path
in every direction, and from which the earth had been

washed away. In many places this path was knee-deep in

mud for a considerable distance, and we could only pass
by stepping from root to root. This was even more
fatiguing than leaping from rock to rock, and our shoes
being soaked through, our feet soon became so tender that
it was with real pain we moved on : every step, on account
of the steep descent, was a strain to the muscles of the

430  JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

leg, and a wound or blow to the foot. The people on this
road carry their load in a very different manner to that
described on the road to the Tiga-blas country. Here the
load is lashed to a kind of frame or cradle, and elevated

to a considerable distance above the head, the lower part
of the frame being fastened round the head and shoulders.

It was proposed that Lady Raffles should be carried in

this manner, but we could not reconcile her to the at

tempt. Salt, rice, &C., in loads of about fifty and sixty
pounds, are carried in this manner. At length, at about
two o'clock, we once more got a view of the sea from a
place called Liring, where a small shed was erected, and
where the forest in some degree was cleared. From this

spot the country gradually opened ; and we descended by
a tolerably good road, passable for horses, through a
country which had once been cleared, and was still par

tially under cultivation. At five obtained a view of Pa-
dang Hill, bearing south by west, distance about ten

miles ; in half an hour more arrived at Pinang, a comfort
able hut, where we remained for the night. Here we
received fresh supplies from Padang, and found our
horses, which had been sent on to meet us. Our distance

this day we estimated at about sixteen miles : we were
now out of the forest, and nearly at the bottom of the

hills on the sea-side.

   " Thursday, 30th. -- Started at day-light, and proceeded

partly on horseback and partly on foot ; our course to
wards the sea for about six miles, the latter part of which

JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.  431

was through a fine plain of rice-fields, and along the banks
of a rapid stream. Pursuing our journey to Padang
through Cota Tinga and along the sea-shore, we had to
pass the mouths of two rivers, which, in consequence of
the rain that had fallen during the night, were not ford-
able ; we were in consequence soon wet through. Near
Ujung Carang, however, the gentlemen from Padang had
assembled to receive us on our return, and a buggy being
provided, we reached Padang without further difficulty at
about noon ; having thus completed our journey in four
teen days, during which we had traversed, in a straight
line, about one hundred and forty, and by the course we
were compelled to pursue, not less than two hundred and
fifty miles, over one of the worst roads that perhaps ever

was passed by man.

   " What may be the eventual results of this journey, it
is impossible to say. In natural history, it has afforded

us a very interesting insight into the mineral kingdom.
We have traced the junction of the volcanic with the pri
mitive series ; and, by the evidences afforded in our col
lections, are enabled to estimate the mineral resources of

the country. In the vegetable kingdom we discovered no
less than forty-one plants, which appeared to Dr. Hors-

 field entirely new, and certainly not contained in the
 Flora of Java. The different elevations above the sea

 were ascertained, some by barometrical, others by trigo

 nometrical observations -- the latitudes and longitudes

 fixed, partly by observation and partly by dead reckon

432  JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR OF SUMATRA.

ing. By crossing the range of mountains at different

passes we clearly ascertained that there are three ridges,

the central being the highest.

   " The discovery of an extensively populous and highly

agricultural country cannot fail to be interesting. On a

moderate calculation, the population, within a range of

fifty miles round Pageruyong, cannot be estimated at less

Ithan a million ; by the returns received on the spot,

the number appears more considerable. Throughout the

Iwhole of our journey did not observe a single Ladang,

that migratory kind of cultivation so accurately described

by Mr. Marsden, and so universal near the southern

coast ; it had long been superseded by the conversion of

the land into regular sawas, and the establishment of

fixed property in the soil; manufactories also are here

more advanced.    Menangkabu has always been famed for
its cris blades.  Iron has been worked from time imme

morial. An extensive manufactory of coarse pottery near

the banks of the lake supplies not only Padang but Ben-

coolen with that useful article.                   At no
   " Politically the greatest results may accrue.

very distant date the sovereignty of Menangkabu was
acknowledged over the whole of Sumatra, and its influ

ence extended to many of the neighbouring Islands ; the

respect still paid to its princes by all ranks, amounts

almost to veneration. By upholding their authority, a

central government may easily be established; and the

numerous petty states, now disunited and barbarous, may

                ANECDOTES OF NATIVES.                                  433

be again connected under one general system of govern
ment. The rivers which fall into the Eastern Archipe

lago may again become the high roads to and from the

central capital ; and Sumatra, under British influence,

again rise into great political importance."

   One or two anecdotes of the natives may be added to
the above. When the people of the Tiga-blas country
first beheld the Editor, they seemed to be struck with

amazement, and the question was not, who is that ? but,

what is that ? The disguise of dress, and, to them, the

extraordinary appearance of fairness were unaccountable.
With all the wonder of ignorance they immediately con

ceived that there must be something supernatural ; and

mothers pressed in crowds, imploring to have their chil

dren touched as a preservative from all future evil. It

was in vain to urge fatigue, to entreat to be excused ; no

one liked to lose so easy an opportunity of insuring future

good, and the noise, the pressure, and confusion were not

a little amusing ; when one crowd was satisfied, a fresh

collected, and it would be difficult to guess the number

on whom was bestowed this slight but coveted act of

kindness. At Solaya the Editor was left alone in a

native house, with a sepoy stationed as a sentry at the
door to keep the people away ; but they collected in such
numbers that they overpowered him, and hundreds rushed

into the house to gaze and express their astonishment.

After this had been endured for a length of time, they

were entreated  to retire and allow some repose                        to be
                                                                   2F
   vol. i.

434  LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

taken. With one accord they seated themselves in a
moment, saying, of all things they should like to see the
mode of sleeping, and that they would watch all the time,
and only sit and look ; and no entreaty could prevail
upon them to go away, so there they remained until the
rest of the party returned from the assembly of the Chiefs.
On reaching Simawang the same thing was repeated, the
same curiosity and wonder ; crowds assembled to see how
the Editor took food, and during the night strange dark
faces were continually seen peeping through the curtain
which parted off her place of rest from the numerous
inmates of the same room.

                                         TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                                      " Bencoolen, August 15, 1818.

     " My dear Sir,
            " My last letter was from Pageruyong ; and you

will be happy to hear that we are again safe at Bencoolen,

without having suffered any serious injury from the
fatigues of the journey. We were absent from Padang

fifteen days ; and our course in the map was, in a straight
line, about one hundred and forty miles. For the details

of our journey I refer you to Dr. Horsfield, who will be

the bearer of this, and to whom, independently of his

Iclaims as a man of science and research, have to request

your kind attention as my particular friend.

  " To Dr. Horsfield I have entrusted a sketch of our
Iroute ; in his have corrected the situation of Pageruyong,

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.                            435

Iwhich is a few miles different to what stated in my letter

Ifrom thence.  do not think we can be much out;

perhaps you will be induced to consider it sufficient au

Ithority for correcting the map. On this subject  am

Ianxious to hear from you.  have now an establishment

in two parts of the interior of Menangkabu and inland of

IBencoolen, and have some idea of traversing the central

districts from one end of the Island to the other. Do

you contemplate the publication of any improved addi

Itions to your map ? or shall keep the observations here

I Iuntil can frame a new one ?  mention this because we

are badly off for draftsmen ; and under the existing regu
lations of the post-office you may have trouble in securing

the detailed surveys sent as they are made.

   " You will be gratified to hear that the neighbourhood

of Pageruyong contains a population of certainly not less

than a million ; that agriculture is nearly as advanced as

in Java ; and that in soil and climate we have reason to

believe Sumatra is fully equal to that island. The first
fruits of our establishment in the hills have been the

regular supply of Bencoolen with potatoes, which hitherto

have been imported.
    " Our discoveries in Menangkabu enhance the value of

Padang town ; it is the key of that place, and of all which

is valuable in Sumatra. Without this we can do nothing

I--with it every thing. The measures which have taken

will, no doubt, be considered strong; but our interests

Ihave been so shamefully sacrificed, that could do nothing
                                                  2 f2

43o DEATH OF DR. ARNOLD.

less. Nothing but definite arrangements in Europe will

place things on their proper footing.

  I" have to report to you two melancholy losses which

we have sustained. Poor Dr. Arnold, our naturalist, died

Iof a fever, occasioned,  fear, from the fatigues of our

journey to Pasumah; and accounts were yesterday re

ceived of the death of Mr. Holloway at sea.

  I" send by Dr. Horsfield a facsimile of one of the
Iinscriptions which found at Suruasa. The stone to

which you allude as remarkable near Pnaman, turns out

to be modern, and a vestige of Dutch authority."

                          TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                      " Fort Marlborough, August 16, 1818.
    " My last letter to your Grace was from on board ' The

Lady Raffles,' on our return from Padang and Menang-

Ikabu ; and did hope, before the ship left us finally for

England, that I should have been able to give you a de

tail of our subsequent proceedings ; but this is impos

Isible, and must be content to send her off with a few

lines, saying we are all well.

   " We are now tolerably quiet, but the earth continued

to quake for the first month after our arrival, and we were
seldom without one or two shocks in the day. The sen

sation, particularly during the night, is very unpleasant.

  " We are going on, I am happy to say, very well ; our

dear little Charlotte daily improving, and promising to be

every thing we could wish. Lady Raffles is quite well,

DIFFICULTIES OF THE JOURNEY.  437

notwithstanding the excessive fatigue of the journeys we
have taken ; the last occupied fifteen days, and we did not
walk less than two hundred and fifty miles over the very
worst route, for road there was none ; at first, up the bed
of a river, where we had to force our way by leaping from
rock to rock ; then for some days over hills covered with
forest, and the roots of the trees, which projected far
above the ground, our only foot-path ; the ascent some
times so steep, that Lady Raffles was obliged to be
dragged up by two men, being often so fatigued she
could not raise her foot the length of the step, having to
walk some days from day-light, with one hour's rest at
mid-day, when the only refreshment to be obtained was a
little rice and wine, until eight o'clock at night, before we
reached the shed prepared for our night's lodging."

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

MEMOIR

       LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES

SIR THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES,

                                                       F.R.S., &c. &c.

           PARTICULARLY IN THE GOVERNMENT OF
                 JAVA, 1811-1816, BENCOOLEN AND ITS
                          DEPENDENCIES, 1817-1824 ;

 DETAILS OF THE COMMERCE AND RESOURCES OF
                 THE EASTERN ARCHIPELAGO.

             SELECTIONS FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE.

                  BY HIS WIDOW.
                 g^^. (U«(t) .UtLf, c( - /rs-f,

            A NEW EDITION, IN TWO VOLUMES.

                           VOL. II.

                            LONDON:
       JAMES DUNCAN, 37, PATERNOSTER-ROW.

                                                MDCCCXXXV.

                              LONDON:        AND  SONS,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES
                           Stamford Street.

          CONTENTS

                                     OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER XIII.                            p;

Sir Stamford's arrival at Bencoolen --Improvement in the feel

   ings of the inhabitants -- State of affairs in the Eastern Archi
   pelago requires him to proceed to Bengal--Wrecked on the
   passage -- Attention of the Government already directed to the

   subject of the Dutch encroachments-- Lord Hastings deter

   mines on another line of policy, and to secure the command of
   the straits of Malacca -- Sir Stamford appointed Agent to the
   Governor- General for this purpose --Account of the discovery
   of the Tapir --Departure from Calcutta --Anticipation of Sin
   gapore as the spot for the new settlement -- Arrival at Penang
   -- Proceeds down the Straits of Malacca-- hoists the British
   flag at Singapore -- Acheen -- Decides on the right of the crown
   --Description of Acheen-- Reformation introduced at Ben
   coolen --Journeys --General politics -- Conquest of Java --The

   first convention for the unconditional restoration of it to the

   Dutch--only communication from Europe--Representations

   made in England-- Apprehensions realised on return to India
   -- Bornean States --Dutch at Palembang-- Acheen affairs --
   Title to the occupation of Singapore -- Bible Society -- Opinions

   of Captain Horsburgh and Mr. Carnegie on the settlement of
   Singapore -- Accident to the vessel off Rhio

                              CHAPTER XIV.

Sir Stamford arrives at Bencoolen -- Endeavours to induce the
   inhabitants to take an interest in the improvement of the coun
   try --Irregularities which formerly prevailed -- School for the

324094

iv CONTENTS.

children of the slaves --Its success -- Missionaries -- Religion of  42

the people-- Effect of an institution for the Education of the
higher orders--Anxiety for Mr. Wilberforce's assistance --Bible
Society -- Schools -- Sir Stamford resolves to proceed again to
Calcutta --Billiton --Lord Hastings on the subject of Eastern
arrangements -- Leaves Calcutta to return to Bencoolen.

CHAPTER XV.

Sir Stamford did not succeed in introducing a more economical and

simple mode of government for the Eastern Islands --Difficulties
of altering established forms --Illness-- Sight of Sumatra --Tap-
panooly --Battas -- Population -- Language-- Manners -- Civil
ized cannibals --Eating their prisoners of war, criminals, and

parents, alive-- Description of eating a person as a punishment --

Padries-- Cholera Morbus-- Camphor tree-- Laws of the Battas
-- Succession of nephews -- Mr. Ward's opinion.
                                                    .  .             74

CHAPTER XVI.

Sir Stamford devotes himself to his favourite pursuits -- Builds a

house in the country -- Collections in Natural History sent
home--Correspondence of Captain Flint with the Java Govern
ment --Improvement in Bencoolen -- Pulo Nias -- Easy com

munication with Palembang across the Island-- Sir Stamford's
description of his Children-- His confidence that he has pur
sued a right course-- His defence of his conduct --His opinion
of the powers he was invested with--Arrival of Missionaries --

Mr. Burton settles in the Batta country-- Sir Stamford not
supported by the Ministry -- Introduction of British manufac
tures into China -- Agricultural Society --Expense of Singapore

-- Manufacture of Sugar -- Colonization -- Lake of Korinchie --
Cultivation of rice--Nutmeg-trees -- Malayan plants -- Political

speculation-- Death of the Editor's brother.     .     .101

CHAPTER XVII.

Sir Stamford forms an establishment on the Island of Nias for
   the suppression of slavery -- Sufficient spices raised at Ben

   coolen for the supply of Great Britain-- Description of the
  Island of Nias --Its population, exports, slaves-- Period of pro-

CONTENTS.                                                           V

                                                                                                       PACK

posed return to England-- Poggie Islands-- Description of the
people -- Death of Sir Stamford's eldest boy--Death of Captain
Auber -- Missionaries engaged in printing Malay Bible--Illness
of another child--Intended publication on commercial prospects
--Death of two children -- Youngest child sent to England --
Retired life-- Expectation of Mr. Canning as Governor-General
-- Sir Stamford's opinion of the state of England -- Arrival of a
party for the measurement of the pendulum at the Equator--
Death of Dr. Jack --Voyage to Singapore. . .169

CHAPTER XVIII.

Arrival at Singapore --Description of the settlement -- Grounds of
right to its retention -- Occupation at Singapore -- Selection of
site for college --Value of land --Contrast of Bencoolen and        v
Singapore --Number of vessels arrived in the first two years
and a half-- Bungalow on Singapore hill -- Botanic garden --
"Description of plant described by Dr. Finlayson--Mission to

Bali -- Drawing up laws and regulations for the settlement --
Magistrates --Memorial- against slavery -- Resolution of the
Bengal Government -- Instructions to Mr. Crawfurd -- Ad

dresses from the inhabitants -- Singapore the only place in India

where slavery cannot exist -- Leaves Singapore -- Touches at

Batavia -- Correspondence with the Baron Van de Capellen . 239

CHAPTER XIX.

Arrival at Bencoolen -- Plans for the future --Freedom of the port

of Singapore -- Account of the Padries-- State of health --

Death of friends -- Death of child -- Anxiety about the arrival

of the ship Fame --Determines to embark in the Borneo -- Ar
rival of the Fame -- Embarkation--Burning of the ship --Appeal

to the Court of Directors -- Extract from Memorandum book,

for regulation of time-- Embarks in the Mariner -- Storm off
the Cape --Arrival at St. Helena--Landing at Plymouth.
                                                                    296

CHAPTER XX.

Sir Stamford lands at Plymouth --Interview with his child-- Re      

   sumes his labours -- Interrupted by ill health -- Views of the
   civilization and conversion of the heathen --Retrospect of the

Tl CONTENTS.

   proceedings of the Bible Society in Sumatra -- Malay schools
   preparing the way for the Scriptures -- Translation of St.
   John's Gospel -- Effect of the transfer of the island to the
   Dutch --Access to China -- Singapore Institution -- Sir Stam
   ford's life at home -- The magistracy -- Sudden illness -- Pur
   chase of Highwood -- Judgment of the Court of Directors on
   his administration of Java, Sumatra and Singapore -- His
   death. . . . . . .344

    The following is a memorandum of an intended Work,
which was found after Sir Stamford's death :--

             NOTES ON THE EASTERN ISLANDS.

    Comprehending an account of the British Administration of Java ;
the Proceedings of the Local Authorities on the Restoration of that
Colony under the Convention of 1815 ; the Establishment of the Set
tlement of Singapore, and the final adjustment of differences with the
Netherlands' Government under the Treaty of 1824; with Obser
vations on that Treaty, and its probable effects with reference to the
present condition and circumstances of the Archipelago.

                       By Sir T. Stamford Raffles.

   To be printed in one volume quarto, uniformly with the History of
Java by the same Author, to which work it may be considered sup

plementary.

   Also (in connexion with the above, and as introductory to the pub
lications of Dr. Horsfield), Notes illustrative of the Natural History,
and more especially of the Geology of the Malay Islands, containing
geographical and geological notices, with an account of some of the
more remarkable vegetable productions, and the outline of a Fauna
Malayana ; with Plates :

            By the same Author, assisted by Dr. Horsfield.
   Contents. --Introduction. Geographical and geological outline of

the Archipelago. -- Ditto of Java, with plates. -- Ditto of Sumatra, with
ditto; and journey to Menangkabu.--Banca, with map and abstract
memoir ; principal vegetable productions, and their distribution and
localities.-- Fauna Malayana. -- Larger animals, &c. ; distribution and
account of, generally, as introductory to the descriptive catalogue.
-- Catalogue arranged scientifically with relation to the order of
nature.


                MEMOIR

                                                                            OF

SIR THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES, F.R.S.

          CHAPTER XIII.

Sir Stamfords arrival at Bencoolen --Improvement in the feelings
  of the inhabitants -- State of affairs in the Eastern Archipelago
   requires him to proceed to Bengal-- Wrecked on the passage --At

tention of the Government already directed to the subject of the
Dutch encroachments -- Lord Hastings determines on another line

of policy, and to secure the command of the Straits of Malacca --
Sir Stamford appointed Agent to
purpose --Account of the discovery  othfethGeovTearpniotr--- GDeenpearartl ufroerfrothmis
Calcutta -- Anticipation of Singapore as the spot for the new set

tlement--Arrival at Penang-- Proceeds doion the Straits of Ma
lacca--hoists the British flag at Singapore -- Acheen --Decides on
the right of the crown -- Description of Acheen -- Reformation in
troduced at Bencoolen --Journeys -- General politics -- Conquest of
Java -- The first convention for the unconditional restoration of it
to the Dutch-- only communication from Europe-- Representa
tions made in England -- Apprehensions realised on return to
India -- Borean States --Dutch at Palembang--Acheen affairs --
Title to the occupation of Singapore -- Bible Society -- Opinions
of Captain Horsburgh and Mr. Carnegie on the settlement of Sin
gapore -- Accident to the vessel off Rhio.

On his return to Bencoolen Sir Stamford had the satisfac

tion to find that a general impression prevailed with those

committed to his charge, that the object of his government

VOL. II.                            B

2 sir Stamford's arrival at Sumatra.

was to promote a spirit of enterprise among them as indi
viduals, to give the utmost freedom to cultivation, to
extend the commerce of the country, and to advance the

happiness of the people in general. It would have been

delightful to him to have remained with them, desirous as
they appeared to be to promote his views for their welfare ;
but the larger national interest in the Eastern Archipe
lago required his immediate attention. On his arrival in
Sumatra he had foreseen that it would be necessary for
him to have personal communication with the Bengal
government on this subject ; and he therefore thought it
advisable to proceed at once to Calcutta.

   It is only necessary to state, that Sir Stamford embarked

in a very small vessel, which had no better accommodation
than one small cabin, with only a port-hole to admit air,
where centipedes and scorpions roved about without in
terruption : but personal convenience was never considered

by him if it interfered with duty, and no better opportunity

was likely to occur. The vessel lost a mast in the Bay of
Bengal, and, owing to a drunken pilot, was literally upset
in the middle of the night upon a dangerous bank at the
mouth of the river Hoogley, where Sir Stamford was obliged
to remain until boats were sent from Calcutta to take him
out of the vessel.

    Sir Stamford found that the measures which he adopted
in Sumatra, in particular the general protest which he had
made against the Netherlands' authority on the occasion
of its interference at Palembang, had attracted the atten

sir Stamford's arrival at Calcutta.  3

tion of the Governor- General in Council : and as the

Netherlands' Government had submitted to the same au

thority its appeal against the part which he had taken, the

question was fairly before the Bengal Government. For
tunately the Government of Prince of Wales' Island had

at length, on the transfer of Malacca to the Dutch, been

awakened to the dangerous consequences which must have
ensued to the interests of that Island, and the eastern

trade generally ; and their representations had the effect
of corroborating and confirming all Sir Stamford's previ

ous apprehensions and statements.
  Havingthus succeeded in bringing the subject fully before

a higher and competent authority, and having convinced
that authority of the necessity of adopting some defined
line of policy for the protection of those interests, he had

the satisfaction to find that at length their nature and

importance were justly appreciated; and the measures

which he had previously adopted, however they might be

regretted as occasioning collision with the Netherlands'

Government, were pronounced "to have been dictated by
the purest spirit of patriotism, and to have been such that,
in the circumstances in which he was placed, he could not

well have acted otherwise."

  It is not necessary, and perhaps it might be improper, to

advert to the grounds on which the Governor-General
resolved upon the line of policy which was subsequently

adopted. It is sufficient to state, that it was determined,

under existing circumstances,  to concede to the Dutch

                                                 b2

4 LETTER TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

their pretensions in Sumatra ; and to limit the interference
to measures of precaution, by securing a free trade with
the Archipelago and China through the Straits of Malacca,
leaving to the Dutch the exclusive command of the Straits
of Sunda. In order to effect this, and at the same time
to protect the political and commercial interests in the
Eastern Seas generally, it was essential that some central
station should be occupied within the Archipelago, and to
the southward of Malacca ; and Sir Stamford was appointed
Agent to the Governor-General to effect this important

object, if practicable, and generally to assume charge of

the British interests to the eastward of the Straits of
Malacca.

   Sir Stamford wrote to Mr. Marsden on these subjects.

TO WILLIAM MARSDEN, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,        "Calcutta, October 16, 1818.

I" You will be happy to hear that have made

my peace with the Marquess of Hastings, and that his

Lordship has at last acknowledged my exertions in Java

in flattering terms. This was one object of my visit to

Calcutta, and on it depended, in a great measure, the suc

Icess of the others.  am now struggling hard to interest

the Supreme Government in the Eastern Islands; and

Ithe measures taken by me at Palembang, &c., will,

doubt not, lead to the advantage of some denned line of

policy being laid down for the future. With regard to

LETTER TO W. MAKSDEN, ESQ.                                     5

Ithe Dutch proceedings at Palembang, of which hope you

 are, ere this, fully apprised, Lord Hastings has unequivo
cally declared, that his mind is made up as to the moral
turpitude of the transaction, and that he considers this but
as one of a course of measures directed in hostility to the
British interests and name in the Eastern Seas. My
despatches are now under consideration, and it is uncer
tain what may be the immediate result. There is but one
opinion in regard to the manner in which our interests
have been sacrificed by the transfer of Java, &c., and it is
clear that the government at home will be called upon
from hence to interfere for the security of our trade ; but

Iin the mean time, and pending the reference to Europe,

*****fear that nothing decisive will be done. Lord Hastings

Iis, know, inclined to recommend our exchanging Ben-

coolen for Malacca, and to make the equator the limit.
   " Lady Raffles has accompanied me -- she is quite well,

but finds the climate very different from that of our
Eastern Isles -- the heat has been extremely oppressive,
and the whole of India very sickly --it is computed that

not less than two millions have fallen a sacrifice to what is

here called the cholera morbus. Our kindest regards.
   " Marco Polo has not yet appeared in this part of the

world.

  "I have just received your kind letter, written on

Christmas day last, for which accept my best thanks --

Ion my return to Bencoolen shall no doubt find a large

6 ESTABLISHMENT OF A STATION AT SINGAPORE.

collection of English letters.  I hope to be there in
January."

Although Sir Stamford did not succeed in his endea-

Tours to induce the Bengal Government to adopt all his

views regarding Sumatra, his presence in Calcutta created

a general interest, and turned the attention of the mer

chants, as well as that of the government, towards the

progress of the Dutch power, and the probable total de

struction of the English trade, if some strong efforts were

Ifnot made.  the moment was then allowed to pass away,

the time would be over when any thing could be done :
the two only passages to the Eastern Archipelago secured
by the Dutch, nothing but actual force would obtain for

the British trader ingress to its thousand Isles. In his

own words, he neither wanted people nor territory ; all he

asked was, permission to anchor a line-of-battle ship, and

hoist the English flag, at the mouth either of the Straits
of Malacca or of Sunda ; and the trade of England would

be secured, the monopoly of the Dutch broken.
   Lord Hastings was convinced ; and the occupation of

Singapore was the consequence. Even before he left
England, Sir Stamford contemplated this, to him, classical
spot as a place favourably situated to become a British
station. Mr. Crawfurd has inadvertently given, in his
account of the mission to Siam, an erroneous statement of

the establishment of this settlement ; the Carimons, which

he describes as the original object of Sir Stamford's selec

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  7

tion, being the plan, in fact, of Colonel Farquhar, while
Resident at Malacca, and not of Sir Stamford, who sur

veyed them out of courtesy only to that officer.

   Whilst still engaged at Calcutta, in endeavouring to
secure the concurrence of the Supreme Government in his
designs, he addressed letters to several friends, of which

the following are extracts.

                          TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.
                                                 " Calcutta, November 26th, 1818.

  I" have now accomplished the principal object of my

visit to Bengal, and purpose embarking once more in the
course of four or five days, for the Eastern Islands, which,

I Idoubt not, shall find as fresh and as blooming as ever.
I yet hope to be in time to do something for the public

good ; but the policy of the Dutch, and the unreserved
terms of the convention, preclude me from being very

sanguine.

  I" My own health remains much the same as when left

England, and Lady Raffles is, if any thing, better. Do

you not pity poor Lady Raffles, and think me very hard
hearted to drag her about in her present state 1 --but she

Iwill not remain from me, and what can do ? We are

now above three months without any news of our dear

baby, so that you see we have our minor as well as major

separations.

  I" have begged of Lady Raffles to give your Grace an

account of the regal state of the Governor-General, which

Ireally exceeds all had heard of it.

8 LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

I" take down from hence a medical man of the name of

Jack, who will be entrusted with the botanical part of my

Iresearches; and have two Frenchmen, M. Diard and

M. Duvausel, the former the pupil, and the latter the

Istep-son of Cuvier; so that in comparative anatomy

shall be strong. These three satarts, with a missionary

clergyman, who takes charge of a printing-press, form my

Iequipment from Calcutta, so that hope we may do some

thing.

  I" have at last succeeded in making the authorities in

Bengal sensible of their supineness in allowing the Dutch

Ito exclude us from the Eastern Seas ; but fear it is now

Itoo late to retrieve what we have lost.  have full powers

I Ito do all we can ; and if anything is to be done, think

need not assure your Grace that it shall be done--and

quickly done."

                                     TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                                  " Calcutta, December 10M, 1818.

     " My dear Sir,

       I" am not certain whether, while in England, I
I Imentioned to you a discovery which thought had made

of the Tapir in the Malay countries.
   " On my arrival at Penang in 1805, it was represented

to me that a short time before, in the government of Sir
George Leith, an animal in every respect the model of an

elephant, but of diminutive size, had been brought from

Queda ; the animal had unfortunately died while Sir

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

George was on the hill, and the servants threw the body

into the sea.

  I" subsequently visited Malacca, and made particular

inquiries for an animal of this description ; and from the

I Iinformation received there, had little doubt in my

mind but the animal in question was rather the tapir than

the elephant, and on showing the drawing of the former

to the natives, they seemed at once to recognize it.

   " The result of further inquiries has been conclusive on

Ithis head, and now have the satisfaction to assure you

that the animal exists, not only on the Peninsula, but in

Sumatra. The head of one obtained in Malacca is now

deposited in the Museum of the Asiatic Society at Cal

cutta ; and a living tapir, from Sumatra, is now in the

Governor-General's park at Barrackpore.

I" By the hands of Mr. Holton  send you a correct

drawing of the Sumatran animal. It is the most docile

Icreature ever met with, and is more like the hog than

Iany other animal to which can compare it."

*****TO MR. MARSDEN.
                  '' Nearchus, off the Sandheads, Dec. \2th, 1818.

" My dear Sir,
   " We are now on our way to the eastward, in the hope

Iof doing something, but much fear the Dutch have

hardly left us an inch of ground to stand upon. My

attention is principally turned to Johore, and you must

10 MISSION TO THE EASTERN ISLES.

not be surprised if my next letter to you is dated from the

site of the ancient city of Singapura.
                                      " Yours, &c.
                                                  " T. S. Raffles."

   With his usual foresight, knowing that his present

objects required a military force, and fearing that he
should not obtain any assistance from the government of
Penang, Sir Stamford wrote from the Sandheads, at the
mouth of the Ganges, to the officer commanding the
troops at Bencoolen, which were about to be relieved, and
requested him to come round by the Straits of Sunda,
where a vessel should meet him with instructions.

" Penang, Jan. 16iA, 1819.

" Me voici a Pulo Penang. God only knows where

next you may hear from me, but as you will be happy to

I.learn the progress of my mission,  will not lose the

Ipresent opportunity of informing you how go on. In

Ithe first place, have to complain most bitterly of * *

" Whether anything is to be done to the eastward or

not, is yet very uncertain. By neglecting to occupy the

place we lost Bhio, and shall have difficulty in establish

Iing ourselves elsewhere, but shall certainly attempt it.
  I" At Acheen, the difficulties shall have to surmount

in the performance of my duty will be great, and the
Iannoyance severe, but 1 shall persevere steadily in what

I Iconceive to be my duty.
think may rely on the Mar

HOISTS THE BRITISH FLAG AT SINGAPORE.  11

quess ; his last words were, -- ' Sir Stamford, you may

depend upon me.'

  I" Sophia will remain at Penang, while visit Acheen.

                                      "Yours, &c.
                                                  " T. S. Raffles."

   Of the delicacy and difficulties of the trust confided to
Sir Stamford, some idea may be formed, when it is consi

dered, that before he had reached Penang, on his way to
the eastward, the government of that settlement had
failed in an attempt to acquire such a station, had de
clared its conviction that the period had passed in which

any such station could be obtained within the Archipe
lago, and on his arrival protested in the strongest manner,
and exercised its power and influence in every possible
way, against his proceeding towards the attainment of
the important object intrusted to him ; while the Dutch
authorities, having, as they thought, already succeeded in
occupying every station, had not hesitated to declare
their supremacy over the whole Archipelago, and to pub
lish their prohibitory regulations for the exclusion of
British commerce, and the exercise of their own so

vereignty throughout the Eastern Seas.
   Sir Stamford, determined to accomplish the duty in

trusted to him, proceeded in person down the Straits of
Malacca, and in ten days after quitting Penang hoisted
the British flag, on the 29th of February, 1819, at Singa
pore, as he had anticipated upon leaving Bengal. The

12 SINGAPORE.

commanding situation of this settlement embraced all the

objects which he expected and desired.

   Sir Stamford conceived it of primary importance to

obtain a post which should have a commanding geogra
phical position at the southern entrance of the Straits of
Malacca, which should be in the track of the China and

country traders, which should be capable of affording them

protection, and of supplying their wants ; which should

possess capabilities of defence by a moderate force ; which

might give the means of supporting and defending the

commercial intercourse with the Malay states ; and which,

by its contiguity to the seat of the Dutch power, might

afford an opportunity to watch the march of its policy,

and, when necessary, to counteract its influence.

The occupation of this station proved to the varied and

enterprising population of the Archipelago, that the

power and commerce of the British nation had not
entirely sunk under the encroachments of the Dutch;

and it also proved a determination to make a stand

against them, and to maintain the right of free commerce

with the Malay states.

Independently of the tribes of the Archipelago, the

situation of Singapore is peculiarly favourable for its

becoming the entrepot to which the native mariners of

Siam, Camboja, Chiampa, Cochin China, and China itself,

may annually resort. It is to the Straits of Singapore

that their merchants are always bound, in the first in

stance ; and  on their arrival in them, they find
              if,
                                                                                                   a

SETTLEMENT OF SINGAPORE.         13

market for their goods, and the means of supplying their
wants, they have no inducement to proceed to the more
distant, unhealthy, and expensive port of Batavia.

   The passage from China can be made in less than six
days, and the same time is all that is required, in the
favourable monsoon, for the passage from Batavia, the
coast of Borneo, and Penang.

               TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                                      " Singapore, Jan. 31, 1819.

" My dear Sir,

  I" Here am, true to my word, and in the enjoyment

of all the pleasure which a footing on such classic ground

must inspire. The lines of the old city, and of its de

fences, are still to be traced, and within its ramparts the

British Union waves unmolested.

   " Singapore is every thing we could desire, it will

Isoon rise into importance ; and with this single station

would undertake to counteract all the plans of Mynheer ;

it breaks the spell ; and they are no longer the exclusive

sovereigns of the Eastern Seas.

I" Sophia is,  am happy to say, quite well ; she is now

*****devoting a great deal of her time to botany, and so far

from finding it hang heavy on her hands, she is constantly
complaining that the days are too short.
   " This place possesses an excellent harbour, and every
thing that can be desired for a Britisli port in the island

 1 1 LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

of St. John's, which forms the south-western point of the
harbour. We have commanded an intercourse with all

the ships passing through the Straits of Singapore. We
are within a week's sail of China, close to Siam, and in
the very seat of the Malayan empire. This, therefore,

Iwill probably be my last attempt. If am deserted now,
I must fain return to Bencoolen, and become philosopher.

    " We are making very considerable collections in natural

Ihistory ; and if the political arrangements, which now

contemplate, are adopted and confirmed, we shall have it
in our power to do a good deal in every department. We
find more work than can be accomplished by six drafts
men employed from eight o'clock till four.

  I" expect to conclude all my arrangements at this

place in the course of a few days, and then to return to

IPenang, where have left Lady Baffles, and my anxiety to

get there, on her account, is very great. From Penang

Imy course will probably bend towards Acheen, where

have to establish the British influence on a permanent

Ifooting ; from thence shall proceed to Bencoolen.

                          TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                        " Penang, Feb. 22, 1819.

  I" am afraid your Grace will already have been tired
Iout by the accounts have, from time to time, given you

Iof my rambling life ; it seems that am never to be settled

for any time, never to enjoy that rest and repose which

the heart so much longs for.

GEOGRAPHICAL SITUATION OF SINGAPURA.  15

" From Calcutta I came to this island, and from hence

proceeded to the further east, down the Straits of Ma

Ilacca.  have scarcely returned a week, and am now

Ihound to Acheen, whence  shall again return to this

place, and proceed round the eastern and southern coast

of Sumatra to Bencoolen. Nearly six months have now

elapsed since we left our dear baby there, and we have

scarcely heard of her since ; two or three months more

must pass before our arrival, and in the interim what im

Iportant events take place ! Among these must mention

Lady Raffles' expected confinement, an event which we

daily look for ; this you will admit is a domestic event of
Ino small importance.
                       have also to communicate to you

a political event of great import, namely, the accomplish

Iment of the great object which have always had in

view, by forming a permanent British establishment in

the Malayan Archipelago, by which the progress of the

Dutch supremacy may be checked, and our interests,

political and commercial, secured.

  " It has been my good fortune to establish this station

in a position combining every possible advantage, geo

*****Igraphical and local ; and if only meet with ordinary sup

Iport from the higher powers, shall effectually check the

plans of the Dutch.
  I" must, however, tell you where you are to look for it

in the map. Follow me from Calcutta, within the Nicobar
and Andaman Islands, to Prince of Wales' Island, then

                                                                t

1G PRESENT OCCUPATIONS.

accompany me down the Straits of Malacca, past the
town of Malacca, and round the south-western point of
the Peninsula. You will then enter what are called the

Straits of Singapore, and in Marsden's map of Sumatra
you will observe an island to the north of these straits
called Singapura ; this is the spot, the site of the ancient
maritime capital of the Malays, and within the walls of

*****these fortifications, raised not less than six centuries ago,

I Ion which have planted the British flag, where, trust,

it will long triumphantly wave.
I" Almost all that  attempted in Sumatra has been

*****destroyed, from a delicacy to the Dutch ; if this last effort

Ifor securing our interests also fails, must be content to

quit politics and turn philosopher.
  I" Your Grace would, think, be amused, were you to

overlook, our present occupations. Were it not for the

IDutch, should have little in politics to interest me, and
I Ias it is, should have much leisure if did not devote my

time to natural history, in which we are daily making very
important discoveries : the lower part of our house, at this
moment, is more like the menagerie at Exeter Change
than the residence of a gentleman. Fish, flesh, and
fowl, alike contribute to the collection ; and above stairs

the rooms are variously ornamented with branches and

flowers, rendering them so many arbours. There are no

less than five draftsmen constantly employed, and with all



          RIGHT TO THE CROWN AT ACHEEN.     17

our diligence we can hardly keep pace with the new acqui

sitions which are daily made. 1 can assure your Grace

that, while directing these various departments, we often

think of the days that are to come, when quietly in Park

ILane, or in the country, may attempt to display to your

domestic circle some of the riches and beauties with which

nature has adorned these islands ; but when will that day

come? A year has nearly elapsed since we landed on

Indian ground : that year has not been spent in idleness ;

Ibut yet must look through three or four more still
Ilonger years before think of home; would that they

were past too !
                  * * * *#

                                                  " T. S. Raffles."

   The duty which Sir Stamford had to perform at Acheen
involved him in much trouble and discussion. The point

to be decided was the right to the crown. A native mer

chant settled at Penang had endeavoured to establish a
claim to it, which was not a little strengthened by his com
mand of wealth *. So much intrigue, trouble, and diffi
culty attended the arrangement of this disputed point,
that Sir Stamford was absent three months. When the

business was settled he returned to Penang, but he only

remained a few days, and proceeded again to Singapore,

   * This was the only instance in which a bribe was offered to the
Editor : a casket of diamonds was presented, and it seemed to create
much surprise that it was not even looked at.

VOL. II.                                 c

18 LETTER TO COLONEL ADDENBROOKE.

where he was most agreeably occupied for some time, in
marking out the future town, and giving instructions to
Colonel Farquhar for the arrangement and management
of his new colony.

   The following are extracts from letters written at this
time from Singapore :--

  TO COLONEL ADDENBROOKE, LATE EQUERRY TO HER ROYAL
                        HIGHNESS PRINCESS CHARLOTTE.

                                                 " Singapore, June I Oth, 1819.

      " My dear Colonel,

 *****" You will probably have to consult the map in

order to ascertain from what part of the world this letter

is dated.

  I I" shall say nothing of the importance which attach
Ito the permanence of the position have taken up at

Singapore ; it is a child of my own. But for my Malay

Istudies should hardly have known that such a place

existed ; not only the European, but the Indian world
was also ignorant of it.

               ## *##

  I I" am sure you will wish me success ; and will there

fore only add, that if my plans are confirmed at home, it

is my intention to make this my principal residence, and
to devote the remaining years of my stay in the East to
the advancement of a colony which, in every way in which
it can be viewed, bids fair to be one of the most important,

GENERAL POLITICS.  19

and at the same time, one of the least expensive and
troublesome, which we possess. Our object is not terri

tory, but trade ; a great commercial emporium, and a

fulcrum, whence we may extend our influence politi

cally as circumstances may hereafter require. By taking

immediate possession, we put a negative to the Dutch

claim of exclusion, and at the same time revive the

drooping confidence of our allies and friends. One free
port in these seas must eventually destroy the spell of
Dutch monopoly ; and what Malta is in the West, that,

may Singapore become in the East.

   I I" shall leave this for Bencoolen in a few days, where

hope to remain quietly until we hear decidedly from

IEurope ; at all events am not likely to quit Sumatra

again for some months, and then only for a short period

to revisit my new settlement.

    " You may judge of our anxiety to return to Bencoolen,

Iwhen tell you that we left our little girl there in August

last, and have not since seen her. Lady Raffles, who

 accompanied me to Bengal, and is now with me, has
since presented me with a son. The circumstances pre

ceding his birth were not very propitious. I was obliged

 to quit her only four days before the event; we were

 almost amongst strangers, no nurse in whom to confide,

no experienced medical aid : for we had expected to reach
Bencoolen in time. And yet all went on well ; and a finer
babe, or one with more promise of intelligence, never was

beheld. You will recollect that our little girl was born on
                                                        c2

20 GENERAL POLITICS.

the wave, under circumstances not more promising, and

yet no mother and no children could have suffered less !

What strange and mysterious dispensations of Provi

Idence ! When think of Claremont, and all the pros
Ipects which were there anticipated--but must check my

pen.

  " I thank you most sincerely for your letters of the 8th

of December, 1817, and 29th of April, 1819 : the former

I could never acknowledge till now, the latter is before
I Ime, and cannot express how much feel indebted to you

for your kind and affectionate attention. The engravings

I have duly received, one of them in particular is dear to

me from many associations ; it is from the painting which

I so often admired in the drawing-room.

  "Your account of our amiable and invaluable Prince

has given me the greatest satisfaction. He has indeed

Ihad his trials : my heart overflows when think of him and

of his sufferings ; and though far removed and separated

Ifrom the passing scene, be assured listen with no com

mon interest to all that is said of and about him.

  I" have told you that Lady Raffles has presented me

with a son and a daughter : from the circumstance of the

latter having been born on the voyage, the Javans, who

are a poetic people, wished her to be named Tunjung

Segara, meaning lotos of the sea ; and a more appropriate

name for purity or innocence could not have been con

Iceived.  gratified their wish, but at the same time my

own, by prefixing a more Christian and a more consecrated

sir Stamford's occupations and views.  21

name, " Charlotte." My son has been christened Leopold ;

and thus will Leopold and Charlotte be commemorated in

my domestic circle as names ever dear and ever respected ;

and that of my daughter, while associated with the em

blem of purity, handed down in remembrance of one

whose virtues will never be forgotten.

  I" must not close this letter without giving you some

account of my occupations and views, as far as they are of

Ia personal nature : am vain enough to hope that these
Iwill interest you more than all could write of a public or

political nature.

   "Notwithstanding the serious demands on my time,

arising out of my public station, and the discussions I have

Inaturally had with the Dutch authorities, have been able

to advance very considerably in my collection in natural his

tory. Sumatra does not afford any of those interesting re
mains of former civilization, and of the arts which abound

in Java ; here man is far behind-hand, perhaps a thousand

years, even behind his neighbour the Javan; but we have

more originality, and the great volume ofnature has hardly
Ibeen opened.
                   was extremely unfortunate in the death of

Dr. Arnold, who accompanied me as a naturalist from

England : he fell a sacrifice to his zealous and indefatig

able exertions in the first journey which he made into the

interior ; but not until he had immortalized his name by

the discovery of one of the greatest prodigies in nature

which has yet been met with, a flower of great beauty, but

more remarkable for its dimensions ; it measures a full

22 sir Stamford's occupations and views.

yard across, weighs fifteen pounds, and contains in the

nectary no less than eight pints, each petal being eleven

Iinches in breadth, and there being five of them.  sent a

short description of this plant, with a drawing, and part of

the flower itself, to Sir Joseph Banks, from whom, or some

of the members of the Royal Society, you may probably

Ihave heard more particulars.  have now with me, as a

botanist, Dr. Jack, a gentleman highly qualified ; and we

are daily making very important additions to our herba

rium. We have recently discovered at this place some

very beautiful species of the Nepenthes, or pitcher plant,

Iwhich in elegance and brilliancy, far surpass anything

have yet seen in this quarter : the plant is very remark

able, and though the genus has been generally described
but little is known of the different species. We are now
engaged in making drawings of them, and with a few

other of the most remarkable and splendid productions of

the vegetable world which we have met with, propose form
ing them into a volume, to be engraved in Europe. This

will be an earnest of what we propose to do hereafter ; and
you will oblige me much by informing me whether His

Royal Highness would have any objection to their being

dedicated to him : there will not be above six or eight en

gravings, but they will be on a large scale.

  I" Besides our botanical pursuits, have in my family

two French naturalists, one of them step-son to the cele

brated Cuvier ; their attention is principally directed to
zoology, but we include in our researches everything that

sir Stamford's occupations and views.  23

is interesting in the mineral kingdom. Our collection of

birds is already very extensive, and in the course of two

or three years we hope to complete our more important

researches in Sumatra. We shall endeavour to include the

Malay Peninsula, Borneo, and wherever the Dutch, who are

the Vandals of the East, do not establish themselves to

Iour exclusion.  hope the plants, &c. by Dr. Horsfield

reached Claremont in safety and tolerable preservation.
   " On the west coast of Sumatra we abound in great

varieties of corallines and madrapores, but few of these

Iare known in England, and collections are rare; am

preparing a few for Claremont, and shall be happy to

hear from you if they are likely to be acceptable, or what

would be more so.

  I" beg of you to present my respects to Prince Leopold,

with every assurance of deep regard, affection and esteem,

******which it may be respectful for me to offer.
  I" To the Duke of Kent will thank you also to present

my respects, and my congratulations on his marriage.
   "Allow me to add my kindest remembrances to Sir
Robert Gardiner, the Baron, and Dr. Stockman, and to

Iassure you, my dear friend, that am with sincerity and

truth,

            Your obliged and very faithfully attached friend,
                                                  « T. S.R*."

   * The beautiful plant alluded to in the foregoing letter has been
named Nepenthes Rafflesiana, and has since been engraved by Mr.

24 LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                     TO DR. WALLICH.
                                                         " Singapore, June 17, 1819.

   " Our friend Dr. Jack will keep you so regularly informed

Iof our proceedings, that shall not attempt to give you

any account of our collections and discoveries. You will

be happy to hear that we are at last on the wing for
Bencoolen, where we shall commence operations on a more
determined plan. We have, however, no right to com
plain, and Singapore would have recompensed all our
pains, had we found in it nothing but the new species of
Nepenthes, which are splendid beyond description, and
for novelty, size, and effect, certainly rank amongst the
beauties of the East."

                TO HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.
                                             "Singapore, June \lth, 1819.

    " We are, at last, on our return home, and hope to leave
this for Bencoolen in about a week. Poor Lady Raffles !
do you not pity her, to have been so long separated from
her little girl, at such an interesting age, and to have been
again confined among strangers, and with no one about
her in whom she could confide ?

  I" To add to our misfortunes, was myself compelled to

leave her only four days before the event. On my return,

Ihowever, to Penang, found her quite well, and one of

the most beautiful boys that eyes ever beheld. Both

Lambert, whose liberality in patronising any new discovery in his
favourite science is well known.

INCREASE OF POPULATION AT SINGAPORE.      25

have done well ever since, and all are in doubt which is

the most beautiful, Leopold or his sister Charlotte : he is
three months old this day. Our troubles are not yet
quite over, as we have a sea voyage of at least a month

before us.                                We have not

   " My new colony thrives most rapidly.

been established four months, and it has received an ac

cession of population exceeding five thousand, principally

Chinese, and their number is daily increasing.

   " It is not necessary for me to say how much interested

I am in the success of the place ; it is a child of my
Iown, and have made it what it is. You may easily
Iconceive with what zeal apply myself to the clearing

of forests, cutting of roads, building of towns, framing of

laws, &c. &c.

               " T. S. Raffles."

                                             TO .

                                                      '' Singapore, June 15th, 1819.

  I" am happy to inform you that everything is going on

well here. It bids fair to be the next port to Calcutta ;

all we want now is, the certainty of permanent possession,
and this, of course, depends on authorities beyond our
control. You may take my word for it, this is by far the
most important station in the East ; and, as far as naval
superiority and commercial interests are concerned, of
much higher value than whole continents of territory.

    " Sophia and young Leopold are in high health and

26 LETTER TO W. MAKSDEN, ESQ.

spirits: our darling girl is running about and talking,

but it is now eight months since we saw her. What an

age !"

        *****TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.
                " Singapore, June \Uh, 1819.

" My dear Sir,

I" am now about to return to Bencoolen by the way of

the Straits of Sunda, after an absence of nine months,

three of which were spent at Acheen. At some future

Iperiod hope to give you an account of the information

collected at the last-mentioned place. Our political nego-

Iciations were eventually successful, and although had

Imuch anxiety and annoyance,  have no reason to regret

my employment on the mission. Our government were

nearly committed on the worst side of a very troublesome

question ; and it required no common degree of assiduity

and perseverance to persuade authorities, who had pre

viously declared opinions, that they were wrong. My

colleague, Captain Coombs, however, at last saw the ques
tion in the same light in which it always appeared to me,

and we had the satisfaction to conclude a treaty with the

legitimate sovereign, by which all our objects were ob

tained, without the necessity of involving ourselves in any
Iway.
        have sent a copy of our report to Mr.  , and

you will oblige me by perusing it when at leisure ; it is

not very long, considering the voluminous nature of our

*****TEAK FORESTS IN ACHEEN.           27

detached ^proceedings,  which  occupy  upwards of one
thousand pages.

" The most important discoveries we made is the ex

istence of extensive teak forests near the northern coasts,

and the general prevalence of mutilated Hindu images

Iin the interior : of the former  obtained specimen

branches of the trees, and undoubted evidence ; and of

the latter, the accounts given were of a nature which left

Ilittle doubt in my mind with regard to the fact : have
Iset farther inquiries on foot, and in the course of time

hope to obtain much interesting information on this sub
Iject.
        have obtained several copies of their annals, and

much information regarding their constitution and cus

Itoms, but have not time at this moment to enter on the

subject Their line of Mahomedan kings appears to have
commenced in 601 of the Hegira, and from that period

until the reign of Secunder Muda, or Macota Alem as he

is more generally called, Acheen is said to have been

tributary to Rum ; it then obtained Maaf, or exemption

from tribute. The crown and regalia appear to have been

brought from Rum shortly after the establishment of

IIslamism, and think it probable that Acheen was the

first and most important footing obtained by the Maho-

medans to the eastward, and whence their religion was

subsequently disseminated among the Islands.
   " There is a fine harbour on the northern side of Pulo

Way, the best in the Achenese dominions, and until this

2S LETTKR TO SIR R. H. ISGLIS.

Iperiod unknown to Europeans. It will be long, fear,

before Acheen will be restored to a state of complete

tranquillity and confidence.  *  *  *                        *

TO SIR ROBERT HARRY IXGL1S.

                              " Singapore, June 12th, 1810.

" My dear Sir,

I" It is now nearly nine months since left Bencoo-

len for Bengal, and during the whole of this period, as

well as previously, my mind and time have been so con

tinually devoted to the pressing and embarrassing duties

Iof the responsible situations in which have been placed,

that the more satisfactory and comfortable duties of pri

vate friendship have necessarily been too often neglected.

IAmong these accuse myself of not having written to
Iyou, and trust in your kindness to admit this general

excuse as a sufficient apology.

   " From the warm and kind interest you take in all that

Iconcerns us, am sure you will hear with pleasure that

both Lady Raffles and myself have in general continued

to enjoy the blessing of health, and that we are the happy

parents of two most lovely children : our little girl was

born at sea, on the passage out; the boy at Penang,

about three months ago : on both occasions the circum

stances in which Lady Raffles was placed were very dis

tressing. It is easy to conceive the anxiety and priva

tions attending such an event on board ship; and at

Penang, independently of our not being in the least pre

LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGL1S.                  29

Ipared with a nurse or otherwise, was myself compelled

to leave her only four days before the event took place.

All, however, has gone on well, and we are truly thankful
to the Great Author and Disposer of all events, for the

mercies and blessings we enjoy.

  I I" know not how can better fulfil my promise to

you, than by giving you a general, but, as it must neces

sarily be, a hasty account of my proceedings, plans, and

I Iprospects, since left England.  will endeavour to do

this in as few words as possible, but it must be without

Iorder or arrangement.  will begin with Bencoolen, and

the immediate interests of that settlement.

I I" Before
left England was prepared for the neces

sity of very essential changes in the mode of manage

ment. The encouragement given to slavery, gaming, and

other vices, and the system of forced services, and deli

veries at inadequate rates, appeared to me incompatible
with the general principles of good government, and in
consistent with the character which the British nation has

latterly assumed.

  I" accordingly endeavoured to procure an authority for
Ireforming these evils ; and although did not succeed to

I Ithe extent wished, believe an impression was made on

some of the more enlightened of the Directors, and on the

President of the Board of Control (Mr. Canning), that

some change was necessary and indispensable. Under

Ithese circumstances assumed the charge of the settlement,
Iand a more reduced and wretched place than found can

3U LETTER TO SIR K. H. INGLIS.

not well be conceived ; recent neglect, and an awful visit
ation of Providence, had contributed to render the scene

even more miserable than it might otherwise have been ;
but under any circumstances, Bencoolen would have
struck me as more insignificant and unimportant than
any one of the twenty-two Residencies lately under my
authority as Lieutenant-Governor of Java.

   " The natural disadvantages of the place are so great,
and the effects of misrule so deeply and extensively felt,

Ithat whilst had every inclination to commence a new
Iorder of things, was not very sanguine in the result ;

the country had already been too far impoverished and
destroyed, the people too long deprived of all motive for
energy and improvement, and the coast too long aban
doned by the native trader, and too inhospitable to invite

I Ihis return. In this state, had to determine whether

would undertake the thankless office of reformer, without

the means of showing any immediate advantage, or con
tinue in the course of my predecessors, and eat the bread
of idleness. My decision was in favour of the former, and

Iamong the first acts which had the satisfaction to per

form, were the emancipation of three hundred slaves be
longing to the Company, and the abolition of the gaming
and cock-fighting farms, whence the principal local reve
nues had previously been derived.

   " These and other changes declaratory of the new
system of government which was about to take place, only

Ipaved the way to more essential changes ; and before

LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGLIS.  31

proceeded to Bengal, the system of forced services and

deliveries was abolished, new agreements entered into

with the Chiefs, the courts of justice regulated on some

fixed principle, and an active police established. All has

*****been quiet since, and on my return to Bencoolen ; the ex

perience of the last twelve months will afford some data

on the eventual effects.
   " Lady Raffles accompanied me on this as well as on my

subsequent journey to Menangkabu, and you may form

Isome idea of the fatigue we underwent when tell you,

that for the three days we had to pass in the forest and
mountains, the paths were so narrow and precipitous, that
it was absolutely impossible to relieve her from the fatigue
of walking, except by occasionally carrying her for half an
hour on a man's shoulders. We walked from before day

light, sometimes till nine at night, and then we had to
prepare our leafy dwelling from the branches of the sur
rounding trees. We carried a cot and bedding with us,

Ibut sometimes this did not come up ; and had to select

the smoothest stone from the river to serve as a pillow.

   " Every thing having succeeded at Pasumah to my
wishes, a treaty of friendship and alliance was entered
into, and we returned to Manna by a different route,
though with equal fatigue and danger. Manna is situ

ated about eighty miles from Bencoolen ; to this place we
had proceeded in a buggy along the sands in a journey of
two days. We then continued our route southward as far

32 LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGLIS.

as Cawoor, keeping the sea-shore, and proceeding on

horseback ; the distance about forty miles.
   " On our return to Bencoolen, which was accomplished

by the 4th of June, new cares commenced. A Commis

sioner, with a party of troops, had arrived in a Dutch

frigate, for the purpose of taking charge of Padang,

by far the most important, and indeed the only valuable

station on the west coast of Sumatra.

  I" had previously written to the Governor-General of

Batavia, that there was an outstanding account between

the two governments to the amount of 170,000 dollars,

incurred by the British Government on the faith of its

being repaid by the Dutch, whenever the place might be

transferred, and according to the terms of the capitulation

Iof the place,  had requested His Excellency would

depute some person to examine the accounts, and give

Ime some acknowledgment before the actual transfer.

accordingly called on the Commissioner for adjustment,

but to my surprise, he informed me, that he had explicit

orders not to enter upon any discussion of the kind ; that

it was his duty first to hoist the Dutch flag ; and that

afterwards the subject might be considered. As we had

woful experience of such a procedure in Java, where

after we had once allowed them to hoist their flag, they

Itreated all our claims with indifference and disregard,

was satisfied that unless we had some acknowledgment of

this debt before the actual transfer, and while the English

flag remained, the amount would be irrecoverably lost,

             LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGL1S.  33

Iand the subsequent claims laughed at ; therefore per

sisted in my demand, and the result was the return of the

Commissioner to Batavia, for further orders. The Dutch

Igovernment refused to waive the point.   remained reso

lute ; and the discussion ended in a reference to Bengal.

IIn the mean time was anxious to make myself ac

quainted with Padang, but more so to attempt a visit to

Menangkabu, the ancient capital of the Malayan empire,
of which Europeans in these seas had heard so much, but

which no European had yet seen. The difficulties which

were opposed far exceeded those we had met with at

Pasumah, but determined to overcome them, we accom

plished our object, and during a journey of fifteen days,

principally on foot, we passed over a distance of, at least,

250 miles, which no European foot had before trodden,

crossing mountains not less than 5000 feet in elevation ;

sometimes whole days along the course of rapid torrents,

on others, in highly-cultivated plains, and throughout the

whole, in a country in the highest degree interesting.
We here found the wreck of a great empire hardly known

to us but by name, and the evident source whence all the

Malayan colonies now scattered along the coasts of the

Archipelago first sprung, a population of between one and

two millions, a cultivation highly advanced, and manners,

customs, and productions in a great degree new and un-

Idescribed.  can hardly describe to you the delight with

Iwhich first entered the rich and populous country of

Menangkabu, and discovered,  after four days' journey
   vol. n.
                                                          D

34 LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGMS.

through the mountains and forests, this great source of

interest and wealth. To me it was quite classical ground,

Iand had found nothing more than the ruins of an
Iancient city, should have felt repaid for the journey ; but
Iwhen, in addition to this, found so extensive a popula

tion, so fertile a country, and so admirable a post whence

to commence and effect the civilization of Sumatra, the

sensation was of a nature that does not admit of descrip

tion. Instead of jealousy and distrust on the part of the

natives, they received us with the utmost hospitality, and

though their manners were rude, and sometimes annoy

ing, it was impossible to misunderstand their intentions,

which were most friendly. They had but one request,

Inamely, that would not allow the Dutch to come to

Padang --' for the twenty-three years that the place had

been in our possession, great changes had taken place,

new interests had arisen, children then unborn had become

men, and those who had been friends to the Dutch were

Inow no more.'  pacified them by receiving an address,

which they wrote in public to the King of England, soli

Iciting his attention to their interests, and as found, on

subsequent inquiry, that the Dutch influence had never

extended inland beyond the mountains, but had been ex

Ipressly limited to the western side of them,  did not

hesitate to enter into a conditional treaty of friendship

and alliance with the Sultan of Menangkabu, as the lord-

paramount of all the Malay countries, subject, of course,

to the approval of Lord Hastings.

LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGL1S.                     35

   " The state of agriculture in the Menangkabu country

Iis far higher than expected to find it ; not in any re

spect inferior to what it is in Java, and in some respects

superior. Water-wheels and sugar-presses being common

throughout Menangkabu, while they are almost unknown
in Java, shows that in this point of view they are at least

equal. In manners and civilization, however, they are

very far behindhand. Some traces of a former higher

state of civilization are discernible, but in general the

people are little beyond what they are found to be in

other parts of Sumatra. The Sovereign of Menangkabu
has little or no authority, and the population seem to

have relapsed into the ancient divisions of tribes so gene

ral throughout Sumatra.

  I" come now to another period in the history of these

Islands. In the year 1811 we conquered Java, the seat of

the Dutch Government, and from that time became

supreme over the East as well as the West of India.
   " The instructions of Lord Minto, which authorized the

conquest, directed, that after dismantling the fortifications,
the country should be given up in independence to the
native Chiefs. Holland at that time did not exist as a

nation, and the prospect of transferring Java to France was
not to be contemplated. The humane and benevolent mind
of Lord Minto revolted at the idea of suddenly transferring

back to the natives a colony which had been in possession

Ifof the European authority for two centuries.  such a

policy were to be pursued, he conceived that it ought to
                                                            d2

36 LETTER TO SIR R. H. INCUS.

be gradual ; and while he took upon himself the responsi
bility of suspending, pending the reference to Europe, the
rigid enforcement of the orders he had received, he did not

hesitate to say that he had done so, and publicly to assure
the natives that they would, in the mean time, be allowed
every degree of rational liberty and independence con
sistent with the safety of the provisional government he

had established.
   " On this principle was my government regulated : and

you may judge with what surprise we received a copy of
the convention for the unconditional transfer of the

country to the Dutch, as the first and only communication

from Europe. The Dutch no sooner obtained possession,

than it became an object with them to lower the character

of the British provisional administration, to displace those

in whom we had confidence, and to obliterate, as far as

possible all recollection of our rule.  **  *

I" Of this do not complain ; if our ministers, in the

zenith of their magnanimity, chose to sacrifice the interests

of five millions of people, and to cast them aside without

notice or remembrance, it was not, perhaps, to be expected

from the Dutch that they should be very nice. Gratitude

is not among the list of national virtues ; it is, perhaps,

inconsistent with them; at least it is at variance with

national pride and vanity.

  "I did intend in this letter, to have entered at some

length into other subjects, which have attracted my atten
tion since my return to India, but it is so unreasonably

LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGLIS.              37

Ilong, that must bring it to a close, with an apology for

the extreme haste and inaccuracy with which it is written,

and for taking up so much of your time on subjects which

are probably of little interest to you.
   " You will have heard, that shortly after my arrival at

IBencoolen, had the satisfaction to establish a Bible

Society. This was followed by the establishment of schools,

and recently, on the visit of the Bishop of Calcutta to

Penang, we formed a District Committee of the Society

for Promoting Christian Knowledge, entitled the Prince

of Wales' Island and Fort Marlborough Committee.

  I I" have now with me, on board the ship on which pro

ceed to Bencoolen, a printing-press, with types in the

Boman and native characters, and have just granted per
mission to the Extra Ganges Mission to establish a col

lege at Singapore, for the study of the Chinese language,

and the extension of Christianity.

" The state of Society, even among the Europeans at
IBencoolen, was very bad on my arrival.
                                         trust it is im

Iproving. An instance has occurred which will, hope,

impress upon the higher authorities the necessity of at

tending more closely to the religious and moral character

of their establishments.

I" am afraid the progress towards improvement will be
I Islow.
hope it will be sure, and, as soon as can give

Iyou a good account, you may rely upon hearing from me.

I Idid intend to write to Mr. Wilberforce, but find have

Inot time, as the ship sails to-day.  shall, therefore, defer

38 LKTTKR TO SIR R. H. 1NGLIS.

Iwriting to him till my return to Bencoolen, when hope

to have much new matter. In the mean time you will

oblige me much by presenting my respects, and assuring

Ihim that we are doing all we can in the good cause.

wish he were fully aware of what might be done here.-
   " On the voyage from England, the attention of Lady

Raffles and myself was principally devoted to natural his
tory. We had with us Dr. Arnold, an eminent naturalist,

and an amiable man, and, with his assistance, we studied

most of the elementary works. Our poor friend, Dr.
Arnold, has since fallen a sacrifice to his exertions, and

we have lost him ; but we have supplied his place by Dr.
Jack, a young man of very superior talent, and excellent
disposition. His time is almost exclusively devoted to

botanical pursuits, and our collections are already very

Iinteresting and extensive.  have also in my family two

French naturalists, one of them step-son to Cuvier. They

undertake the zoological department. We collect a few

stones wherever we go, and chemistry may be added to

the list of our studies.

" These pursuits we selected as the most amusing and

Iuseful we could follow.  was well aware that Sumatra

afforded nothing in language, literature, science, or the
arts, to interest. The great volume of nature, however, is
is laid open before us ; and, in the absence of political

objects, we foresaw enough to occupy our attention during
the period of our banishment. We are vain enough to

hope, that with the means we at present possess, and con

LKTTKR TO SIR R. H. INGL1S.                              39

tinued application for the next five years, we shall be able

to do much towards describing the natural history of Su

matra and the adjoining islands.

" Thus you will see that we do not depend entirely upon

I Ipublic or political objects.
                     have done what conceive

Imy duty in these ; and if my projects fail, shall still have

enough to interest me at home.

   " Lady Raffles unites in the most affectionate regards

to Mrs. Inglis and yourself, and we beg that you will offer

our kindest respects to Sir Hugh and Lady Inglis. To

I ISir Hugh would write, had not already informed you

of all that is likely to prove interesting to him. My next

letter shall, however, be to him ; but it must be delayed

I Iuntil have more leisure and time to condense what

Iwould wish to say.  should not feel myself authorized

to convey my sentiments in the same loose and unguarded

I Imanner to him that do to you. rely upon your friend

ship and kindness, and remain always,

                                  Most sincerely yours.

  " It may be satisfactory to Sir Hugh to know that Lord

Hastings has made the amende honorable ; expressed in
the handsomest terms his regret that he should ever have
viewed my proceedings in Java in another light, and
his approbation and applause of the general principles
which regulated my Government, which he is pleased
to say were as creditable to me as honourable to my

country."

40 RETURN TO BENCOOLEN.

   Sir Stamford returned to Bencoolen, and the only event
that occurred on the voyage was, the vessel striking on a

bank in the Straits of Rhio during the night. It was

feared she would not be got off, and a small boat was pre
pared to endeavour to carry him back to Singapore, with
the Editor and their child, an infant four months old : but
just as they were leaving the vessel, hopes were enter
tained that by throwing all the water overboard to lighten
the ship she might be got off, and before morning the

attempt succeeded. It was then considered fortunate

that the accident occurred so near an European settle
ment; but on stopping at Rhio and sending in a boat,
stating what had happened, and requesting a supply
of water, the Dutch Resident refused all intercourse,
asserted that Sir Stamford went as a spy, and would
not give the assistance solicited; it was, therefore, with
considerable anxiety that the voyage was continued ;
fortunately in passing through the Straits of Banca
a good Samaritan appeared in one of the beautiful
American vessels, so numerous in these seas, when the
Captain generously, and at considerable risk, for the wind
was strong and in his favour, stopped his course, and with
great difficulty, by means of ropes, conveyed some casks
of water, and went on board himself to inquire into the
cause of distress ; the Captain's name is forgotten, but his
kindness has often been acknowledged with gratitude and

praise.

   It is difficult to convey an idea of the pleasure of sailing

SCENERY OF THE ARCHIPELAGO.  41

through this beautiful and unparalleled Archipelago, in
which every attraction of nature is combined ; the smooth
ness of the sea, the lightness of the atmosphere, the con
stant succession of the most picturesque lake scenery,
islands of every shape and size clustered together, moun
tains of the most fanciful forms crowned with verdure to

their summit, rich and luxuriant vegetation extending to
the very edge of the water, little native boats, often with
only one person in them, continually darting out from the
deep shade which concealed them, looking like so many

cockle-shells wafted about by the wind. Altogether it is
a fairy scene of enchantment, deserving of a poet's pen to

describe its beauties.

                CHAPTER XIV.

Sir Stamford arrives at Bencoolen --Endeavours to induce the inha
   bitants to take an interest in the improvement of the country --
   Irregularities which formerly prevailed -- School for the children
   of the slaves-- Its success -- Missionaries -- Religion of the people
  -- Effect of an institution for the Education of the higher orders --
   Anxiety for Mr. Wilberforce's assistance -- Bible Society -- Schools
   -- Sir Stamford resolves to proceed again to Calcutta --BiUiton --
   Lord Hastings on the subject of Eastern arrangements --Leaves
    Calcutta to return to Bencoolen.

The immediate concerns of Bencoolen engrossed Sir Stam
ford^ attention on his return from Singapore. He was
anxious to excite an interest in the Europeans for the
improvement of the natives, and to induce them to find
occupation and amusement in a place where they were
obliged to pass so many years of their lives. Of public
duty there was little for them to perform; and it was
always a subject of regret to him, that so many young men

were doomed to spend their days in idleness, without any
stimulant from the hope of future promotion or success, to

rouse them to energy and activity.
    Committees were appointed to inquire into various

subjects; societies were formed for bettering the condi
tion of the people, and for promoting the agriculture of
the country.

ARRIVAL AT BENCOOLKN.  43

   The appearance of the Settlement was greatly changed.
On Sir Stamford's first arrival in 1818, he found that every
tree and shrub had been cut down (from fear of the na
tives) around the residence of the chief authority, which
had in consequence a most desolate appearance : he imme

diately formed a garden, and surrounded the Government-

house with plantations. As a proof of the luxuriance of
vegetation in these islands, it may be stated, that during
his absence of eleven months, the casuarina trees had

grown to the height of thirty or forty feet ; and he had
the pleasure, on his return, to see the house encircled by
a shrubbery of nutmeg, clove, cocoa, and cassia trees, and
of driving through an approach of alternate nutmeg and
clove trees ; the place seemed to have been converted
almost by magic from a wilderness into a garden. The
nutmeg tree is exceedingly beautiful ; it bears in profu
sion, spreads its branches in a wide circle, and the fruit is
perhaps the most beautiful in the world ; the outside cover
ing, or shell, is of a rich cream colour, and resembles a
peach ; this bursts, and shows the dark nut, encircled and
chequered with mace of the brightest crimson ; which,
when contrasted with the deep emerald green leaf, is de
lightfully grateful to the eye.

   Sir Stamford wrote to Mr. Wilberforce at this time on

various subjects connected with his plans for the general
improvement of the people around him.

41 LETTER TO W. WILBERFORCE, ESQ.

TO W. WILBERFORCE, ESQ.

                · September, 1819.

" Mt dear Sir,

      " I have delayed writing to you thus long in the ex

I Ipectation of leisure, which have never found ; but can

not longer decline the duty of giving you some information

regarding the state of our population, and the means

which are in progress for its amelioration and improve

ment. My public duties have called me to different and

distant countries, and a large portion of my time has

necessarily been devoted to political objects ; but in the

course of these, neither the cause of the slave, nor the im

provement of those subjected to our influence, has been

Iforgotten. In Sumatra had, in many respects, a new

field to tread ; its population, for the most part, is many

centuries behind that of Java ; and before any rational
plan for general improvement could be adopted, it was

necessary not only that much detailed information should

be collected, but that the principles and extent of our

political authority and influence should be clearly under

stood and established.

  I" shall not attempt to sketch even the outline of the

picture which presented itself at Bencoolen, a settlement

which has been in our possession upwards of a century ;

I Ibut in which, am sorry to say, found as many vices and

defects, political as well as moral, as were usually exhibited

in the worst of the Dutch settlements. To attempt any

improvement in the existing order of things, without

NATIONAL SCHOOLS AT BENCOOLEN.                                  45

changing the principle, appeared to me more likely

                                  it,
                                               a

                                              I

                                                                  it
                                                                                                     .
to increase the evil than remove  and thorough and

entire reform became indispensable. This                 found

necessary to introduce, and to effect on my personal re

sponsibility but  have since had the satisfaction to
;

      I

receive the approval of the higher authorities, who have

admitted that these changes appear to have been founded  '

on sound principles of economy, expediency and hu
manity.' Thus encouraged, have not hesitated to prose
                  I

                                                      ;
cute my plans with ardour and decision and the results,

as far as they have yet been seen, have fully answered my
expectations. As much has been done as the time and

the peculiar circumstances of the country and people have
admitted, and the foundation has at least been laid on

which better state of society may be established.
   " Among the more striking irregularities which found
a
    a

                              I
                                           I
to prevail, was the encouragement and countenance given

to slavery, by the entertainment on the part of Govern
ment of gang of negroes, in number between two and

three hundred. This appeared to me so opposite to the
Company's general practice and principles in India, and

so prejudicial to their character, that did not hesitate to

take upon myself the measure of emancipating the whole,

and by this my first act to give an earnest of the prin

ciples on which my future government would be con

ducted. A provision was continued for the old and

infirm, as well as the children and as the latter were
                  ;

                                                                    t
numerous, no time was lost in affording them the means

46 NATIONAL SCHOOLS AT BEKCOOLEN.

of obtaining such an education as might fit them for the

new state and condition to which they had been raised.

An institution for the education of the Caffre children was

accordingly established, and placed under the immediate
superintendence of our chaplain ; and from this small be

ginning, originating in the abolition of slavery, may be

traced the progress we are now making on a more exten

sive and enlarged scale throughout the Archipelago, and

Ito which am now to draw your attention.

   " The success of this little institution was soon mani

fest --an aptness and capacity in the children to receive

instruction, and the unexpected talent displayed by some
of them, excited general interest ; in the mean time our

information and experience of the native character became
more extensive, and it was found that no serious obstacle

stood in the way of generally educating the whole of the

rising generation subjected to our influence. In my visit

Ito Bengal  had obtained the aid of the Baptist mis

sionaries, and one of these young men, well acquainted

with the principles and practice of our national schools,

accompanied me on my return, bringing with him a small

fount of types in the Roman and native character. With

Ithis experience and aid lost no time in giving effect to a
Iplan had long contemplated, and the improvement which

had already taken place in the tone and taste of our

small European society, seemed to second my efforts. In

Iour chaplain, the Rev. Charles Winter, found every dis

position to extend the sphere of his usefulness, and by

INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF SOCIETY.  47

associating him in a committee of gentlemen who had for
merly been in my family in Java, and on whose principles,

I Izeal, and devotion could rely, readily found the means

of effective superintendence. The enclosed printed copy

of the proceedings of this committee will place you in full
possession of the principles on which we have proceeded,
and of the particulars of what has been done towards the
establishment of schools at Bencoolen. In the last report

of the committee with which this paper concludes, you
will perceive some interesting observations on the con

dition of society, the character and usages of the people,

and the facilities which are afforded for more generally

extending the plan of educating the whole of the native

Ipopulation. On this report shall only observe, that in

estimating the character of the people, the committee

have rather taken a general opinion for granted, than

gone themselves into the investigation of that character,

or the causes which may have tended to deteriorate it.

On this subject they are professedly superficial : in other

Irespects you will find much to interest you, and am con

fident they will have your full support and approbation in

the general conclusions and anticipations which they form.

IAmong the older inhabitants found an inveterate preju

dice against the natives, although by their intimacy with

Ithem might have expected a different opinion. Much
Iof this, however, is already wearing off, and have at

least introduced into this superintending committee

enough of the new leaven of charity and benevolence to

  IS INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF SOCIETY.

prevent the institution from running aground on the rocks
of illiberality and prejudice.

   "While this committee have confided themselves to things
as they are, and to objects of immediate and practical use
fulness, another committee have directed their undivided

and particular attention to the causes which may have pro

duced the present state of society--to the origin and root
of the evil, and the means which in a more extensive and

enlarged view it may be proper to contemplate for its

Icounteraction. had myself paid much attention to this

subject, and in my different excursions into the interior of
the Island had collected abundant information. The

Ivarious reforms and alterations which have introduced

had been adopted on a thorough knowledge of the state

Iof the country and people ; but as yet stood alone. It

was on my undivided conviction, and on my personal repre
sentations alone, that the necessity and propriety of these
amendments were upheld ; and as the interests of some
were affected, and the doubts and malignity of others

Imight be injurious, thought it advisable that such a body

of information should be collected by an independent
committee, as would give weight and security to my own
measures, and at the same time enable a distant authority
to form a correct judgment of the real state of the case.
The condition of society at Bencoolen is so peculiar, and
it has been influenced by so many extraordinary and un
accountable circumstances, that it is difficult to convey any
adequate or just idea of it in a few words. The first re-

          INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF SOCIETY.     49

port of this committee is therefore of high interest, and I

am confident it will be perused by you with attention.
You will find depicted in it a state of society very different
from what is usually met with, but you will observe with

pleasure that, in the character of the people, we still find

the rudiments and basis of a better order of things.

   " It is at present exclusively an official paper, and you

must consider this communication as expressly private.

Some severe strictures are necessarily passed in it on the

general system of European administration, which it might

not be pleasant to lay before so severe a tribunal as the

Ipublic, although am myself of opinion that it is far better

openly to acknowledge our errors, where we know we have

done wrong, and thus to bind ourselves to a different

course for the future.

  I" am in a particular manner indebted to a member of

my family, Mr. Jack, for the zeal, ardour, and ability

which he has infused into the researches and proceedings

Iof this committee ; and, think, you will find more inform

ation in a small compass, on the subject on which it treats,

than is elewhere to be met with. The labours of the com

mittee are by no means closed ; they will prosecute their

inquiries into the inmost recesses of Sumatra, and endea

vour to exhibit, in a clear and comprehensive view, the

real resources of the country, and the true character, feel

ings, and capacity of its population. Of this large Island,

the districts immediately dependent on Bencoolen are,

perhaps, the least important ; but, as the seat of our

VOL. II.                                      E

50 PROPOSES A COLLEGE FOR THE NATIVES.

authority, they have necessarily attracted our first atten
tion. We have opened our ports to a free and unrestricted

commerce, and have foregone all prospect of revenue from

the country, at least in its present impoverished state ;

and it is to the improvement of the people in their minds

and their morals that we now alone look for our public

prosperity.

  I" must now carry you to a more extensive field, and

endeavour to obtain all the aid of your powerful patronage
and support for an institution, which is to operate on a
more enlarged and still more important scale, and which is

intended to complete the design 1 had in view : it is the

key-stone to the arch, and when once this is constructed

and well cemented, holier and better men may raise upon

it such a superstructure as their duty to God may require.

IAll that attempt is to pave the way for better things ;
Iand, although am far from lukewarm towards higher
Iends, am content to confide all my views to the enlarge

ment of the human mind, and the general spread of moral

principles. In the present state of these countries, these
are the first to be attended to--to prepare the mind for

religious truth and Christian discipline. It is true the

people of these Islands are distinguished by the absence

of that spirit of intolerance and bigotry, which prevails on

the continent of India, and that they place the fullest con

fidence in the benevolence and liberality of our govern

ment and institutions ; but we as yet only see them as the

Isea in a calm.  write these remarks to you, my dear Sir,

PROPOSES A COLLEGE FOR THE NATIVES.  51

without reserve, knowing that in your kindness and libera

lity they will meet with every indulgence. I am far from

opposing missionaries, and the more that come out the

better ; but let them be enlightened men, and placed in

connection with the schools, and under due control.

  I" must, however, return to my institution, which is

intended to be a native college, for the education of the
higher orders of the natives, and to afford the means of

instruction to ourselves in the native languages, and of

prosecuting our researches into the history, literature,

Iand resources of the farther East. When tell you that

the effect of this institution is intended to be felt among

a population of not less than thirty millions, and that its

influence may eventually, and perhaps at no very distant
date, extend over ten times that number, it is not neces

sary to say more on the extent and importance of the field ;

Iof its nature and interest, need only refer you to the map

of the world, and request you to consider all those countries

lying to the east and south of the Ganges, as included

within our range. It is from the banks of the Ganges to the

utmost limits of China and Japan, and to New Holland,

that the influence of our proposed institution is calculated

to extend ; and of these extensive countries, no portion

has a higher and more peculiar interest than the Eastern

IIslands.  dare not, however, trust myself to descant

upon them, and to enter upon so extensive and important

a field at the close of a private letter, which has already

Iexceeded its proper limits ; but I regret this the less, as

           e2

52 ANXIETY FOR MR. WILBERFORCE's ASSISTANCE.

am enabled to forward to you, in a more connected form,
a copy of the leading arguments and reasoning which have

weighed with me on the occasion.
   " This paper has been drawn up to be submitted to the

Marquis of Hastings, in the hope of obtaining his Lord

ship's powerful support ; but if it can be rendered in any

way useful in your hands in aid of the objects contem
plated, or in furtherance of the enlightened views which
are always present to your philanthropic mind, you are at
liberty to circulate it as you may think proper. We shall
require all the aid of powerful support at home ; and as
you were kind enough to take so warm an interest in the

Ifate of our Java Benevolent Society, am inclined to hope

that the views and principles of the African Institution
will not be considered to have been less attended to in our

present proceedings, which promise to have a far more

immediate and extensive operation.

  I" am particularly anxious that the lamp we have

lighted should not be allowed to shine with a dim or im
perfect lustre ; the spark has been struck with enthusiasm,

Iand while remain in this country, the flame shall be

fanned with ardour and perseverance ; but we must look
to a higher Power for the oil which is to feed and support
it, and, above all, to the protecting and encouraging influ
ence of true principles and British philanthropy, to shield
it, not only against the blasts of adversity, but the no less
destructive vapours of indifference and neglect.

  I" However anxious may feel to devote the best portion

ANXIETY FOR MR. WILBERFORCE's ASSISTANCE.  53

of my life, and however much my fortune might justify a

Ilonger residence in this country, have reason to feel that

my health is not likely to carry me through more than five

or six years' continuance in these islands ; and it is there

Ifore necessary that should look forward to a period

when the influence of my personal presence and exertions

Iwill be withdrawn.  am now endeavouring to lay the

foundation as broad as possible, and have already selected

fit instruments for the furtherance of my plans in several

Iof the most important stations ; but that may raise more

labourers for the field, it is of importance that they should

have a high and steady superintending and encouraging
authority to look to ; such an authority and support at
home as the labourers in the African cause at all times

found. Can you not take us under your parental wings,

or could you not make the Eastern Islands a branch of

the African Institution under some other designation ? If

our objects and our principles are the same, and the field

for improvement is at least as wide and important, why
should this fair and interesting portion of the globe, supe
rior by far in the extent of its population, and equal in its
resources, and so peculiar in its character, be left to slum
ber in ignorance, while the wilder shores of Africa, and
the more distant isles of the South Sea alone invite the
attention of the philanthropist? Hitherto it has been left
at the mercy of the Moor and the Dutchman Jand it might
be difficult to decide which has been the most injurious :

Ifor my own part, am inclined to prefer the former, but

54 ANXIETY FOR MR. WILBERFORCE's ASSISTANCE.

perhaps my prejudices against the Dutch may carry me

too far. Be this as it may, we are now independent of

both ; the station which has been established at Singa

pore, at the southern extremity of the Malayan Peninsula,

has given us the command of the Archipelago as well in

peace as in war : our commerce will extend to every part,

and British principles will be known and felt throughout.

  I" ought to apologize for the length of this letter,

knowing how much your time is occupied, and how little

of it can possibly be devoted to an object which appears

I Ito me so important as the present.
                  will not say envy

the unfortunate African because he enjoys so much larger

Ia portion of your thoughts and attention, but cannot
Ihelp adding that wish they were, even for a short time,

directed to the Malay, the Javan, the Sumatran, the Bor-

nean, the Avanese, the Siamese, the Chinese, the Japa

Inese, and the millions of others with whom am in daily

communication, and to whom the name of William Wil-

berforce, if not entirely unknown, is only coupled with

Ithat of Africa.  know, my dear Sir, that the boundless

goodness of your heart, and the noble stretch of your

mind, embraces at once the good of all mankind; but

perhaps from an impression that individual exertions are

best directed to one particular focus or object, or more

probably from the absence of correct information of the

importance and necessity of your influence in these seas,

the subject may not have sufficiently attracted your at

tention.

ANXIETY FOR MR. WILBERFORCE's ASSISTANCE.  55

  I" have observed it noticed in a late publication, ' that

it is upon Asiatic soil only that the advocates of the slave
abolition are to gain their final victory --that upon the

British Asiatic policy in the development of the unbounded
resources of Asia depends the ascendancy of the British

character.' The writer most probably drew his conclusions

from very different premises, and they are so strikingly

I Iillustrative of what would impress upon you, that could

not omit noticing them. You must remember also that

we have many of the woolly-headed race scattered over

these islands from the Andamans to New Guinea, and

that there have not been wanting persons who consider

them as the aborigines of the country : that the Malay
language extends westward as far as Madagascar, and
that, however remote these islands may be from Africa
geographically, and distinct from it politically in the

present condition of the world, there are traces of a more

Iintimate connexion in former times.  mention this to

show that we have even claims upon you as the friend of

IAfrica : for am far from concurring in the opinion re

garding the aborigines of these islands, and rather con

sider the Caffres we now find in them to have been
brought by traders in remote periods as slaves --as such

they are generally considered and treated whenever en

trapped.
   " The same political objection which might be started

to the interference of your Society in Bengal, and where

we have an extensive dominion, and an efficient Govern

 56 ANXIETY FOR MR. WILBERFORCE's ASSISTANCE.

 ment to provide for all its wants, does not apply to the

countries beyond the Ganges. With these our intercourse

 is entirely commercial, and our object is to raise the native
 governments into consideration and importance : the
 stronger and more enlightened these are, the safer our
 communication, the more extensive our commerce, and

the more important the connexion. There is hardly one
of these states whose history, resources, and population

is known to the European world. A part of my plan is

to encourage the collection of all interesting details on

Ithese subjects, and could wish that the persons who

devote their time to these objects should possess the
means of communicating the information to the public.

An annual report to the African Institution, or to

you individually, with such occasional tracts as may

Ibe interesting, might be forwarded. But leave to

you to point out what had best be done. You will

perceive that we are not idle, and that the spirit
which has gone forth only requires to be properly di
rected and supported to lead to results of the most
promising nature.

  I" must now conclude with my kindest regards to

Mrs. Wilberforce, in which Lady Raffles unites most cor
dially, as well as in every assurance of respect, esteem,

Iand veneration, with which am, very obediently,

                                                            " T. S. R.

  I" should mention that I caused your present of a seal

BIBLE SOCIETY.                               57

to be duly delivered to the Penambahan of Samunap*,

Iand that have in return received his acknowledgments

through the Governor- General of Batavia, together with

Ia handsome crees, which am requested to forward to

you as a mark of respect and attention on the part of that

*****Chief."
       EXTRACT FROM A LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGLIS, BART.

                                                    " Bencoolen, October 5th, 1819.

  I" have much to communicate to you on the subject

of our Bible Society and Schools, of the latter particu

larly ; but as our proceedings will probably be printed, a
communication of them in that form will perhaps be suf

Ificient until can write you more at length. My atten

tion during the last two months has been very closely
directed to the moral condition of our population.

  * A native Chief, who had inherited in his family domestic slaves.

When it was proposed that all the slaves on the Island should be re

Igistered, he proudly said, " will not register my slaves ; they shall

be free : hitherto they have been kept such, because it was the custom,
and the Dutch liked to be attended by slaves when they visited the

Ipalace ; but as that is not the case with the British, they shall cease to

be slaves ; for long have felt shame, and my blood has run cold, when

I Ihave reflected on what once saw at Batavia and Samarang, where

human beings were exposed for public sale, placed on a table, and
examined like sheep and oxen !" The slaves in Java were the pro
perty of the Europeans and Chinese alone : the native Chiefs never
required the services of slaves, nor engaged in the traffic of slavery.
Whilst in England Sir Stamford had a seal made, and Mr. Wilber-
force's name engraved on which he took out, and sent to this Chief
as token of acknowledgment for this liberal act.
a
                                        it,

58 SCHOOLS.

Schools on the Lancastrian plan have been adopted with

Isuccess, and am now proposing the establishment of a

Inative college at Singapore.  mean to submit my plans,

in the first instance, to the Government of Bengal, and,

if possible, to carry Lord Hastings with me. Some aid

from the Company is indispensable, and his Lordship has

evinced a general desire to support similar institutions.

  I" can assure you we are not idle, and if we do not

make more noise about what we are doing, it is because

we are more intent on the real object, than the acquisition

of credit for what we do : it is for the pleasure and satis

faction which the labour itself affords, and the gratifica

tion a favourable result may ensure, that we work, and

Inot for the uncertain praise and applause of the day.

enclose the first Report of our Bible Society : it says

little, but to the purpose, and it may be interesting as the

Ifirst production of a small press which have established

at Bencoolen.

   " Lady Raffles unites with me in kindest respects.

                            I" remain,

                                              " T. S. Raffles."

                                            TO .

                                                                      "October 7th, 1819.

   " Sophia enjoys the best health, and our two children
are of course prodigies. The boy even excels his sister
in beauty and expression, and our only anxiety is to take

them to England before the climate makes an inroad on

their constitution. Till they are six, seven, or eight

DEATH OF COLONEL BANNERMAN.  59

years old, they may remain with safety ; but after that

period both mind and body will be injured by a longer

residence within the tropics.

   " Such portion of my time as is not taken up in public

business, is principally devoted to natural history. We

are making very extensive collections in all departments ;
and as Sophia takes her full share in these pursuits, the

children will, no doubt, easily imbibe a taste for these

amusing and interesting occupations. Charlotte has her
lap full of shells, and the boy is usually denominated ' le

jeune Aristote!

                             " T. S. R. '

   Whilst happily employed in these more domestic but

not less interesting occupations, intelligence was brought
of the death of Colonel Bannerman. This event, melan
choly in itself, Sir Stamford thought likely to afford an
opportunity for urging upon the consideration of the Su
preme Government his views for the general administra

tion of the Eastern Islands. He therefore resolved to
proceed again to Calcutta. The season was far advanced,

the vessel which brought the report was the only one
likely to touch at Bencoolen for many months ; and he
was obliged to separate himself from his family on
account of its total want of accommodation, as the captain,
when offered any sum he would name to make room for
the Editor, proposed to arrange a part of the hold of the
vessel : public duty seemed to require his presence in

60 sir Stamford's commercial views.

Calcutta, and therefore Sir Stamford determined to pro
ceed there alone.

   The following are extracts from the letters written
during the voyage, or during his residence in Calcutta.

       to .

                                             " On board the brig Favourite,

                                                                     October 20, 1819.

  I" am once more at sea on my way to Calcutta. On
Ideliberate consideration resolved to proceed to Bengal

for the advantage of personal communication, the object
at stake being important. The size of the vessel, and the

season of the year, about the change of the monsoon, have

weighed with me in leaving Sophia at Bencoolen; and

Idistressing as the separation must be, do not regret that
I am alone, for we have experienced very bad weather, and
Iit is as much as can do to stand up against all the pri

vations and annoyances of the vessel.

" My views regarding the Eastern Islands are extensive,
Iand,
       think, important to our commercial and political

interests. The field is large, new and interesting ; and,

Iin spite of all your advice, Self, can assure you, is never

viewed or reflected upon by me with any other feelings

than those of patriotism, benevolence, and duty. Hitherto

Iyou have not had a word of my commercial plans : these

have kept back, as they did not require the immediate

attention that those of a political nature did ; but they

are not less important, for they include the whole trade of

sir Stamford's commercial views.

Ithe Archipelago.  will, however, give you some account

of what we have been doing at Bencoolen. Here, at any

rate, my measures have met with general approbation.

They are admitted by the Supreme Government to be

founded on sound principles of economy, good government,

and humanity.

   " My absence from the seat of government, with little or

no communication for upwards of eleven months, during

which the charge of the place necessarily devolved on a

person who did not comprehend the principles on which I

acted, has afforded the means of proving that there was

nothing in the nature of those principles calculated to create

commotion, or to occasion dangerous consequences ; that,

in fact, such an apprehension was a mere bugbear, created

in the confused noddles of those who were ignorant or

afraid of their advantage, and supported by those who

knew no better ; that innovation and reform are attended

with difficulties and dangers, no one will deny, but it is for

him who carries them into effect to be prepared to meet

Iand subdue them as they arise.  wish, however, those

who were so ready to declare the impossibility of the

change would now admit they were mistaken, and state

the grounds of their misconception. They could not re

sist giving me at least credit for overcoming what they

Iconceived impossible.  would then simply ask their

                   a
                                                is,
                                                                                     ?
opinion on the contrast between what and what was

   " You will recollect conversation we had previous to

my embarkation on a very serious subject. To prove to

62 MEASURES FOR IMPROVEMENT OF NATIVES.

Iyou that am not inattentive to those important interests
Ion the largest scale, refer you to what we have done to

wards the amelioration, civilization, and improvement of

*****our population, the only rational steps which can be taken

for eventually spreading advantages of a higher nature,
which we derive from the comforts of revelation and reli

gion.

   "Of the more immediate and practicable measures,

Ihowever, must refer you to the recent establishment of

schools on the Lancastrian principle. A parent school

Ihas been established at Bencoolen, whence hope to sup

ply each village with a tutor, and gradually extend the
spread of knowledge throughout the whole island. The
march will be slow but sure, and while we are doing all we

*****can to amend the present race, we are preparing to supply

their place, in the rising generation, by a people in whom
improvement and civilization may be more readily ex

tended.

   " But a still more important and interesting report de
serves your attention, as containing a true picture of the
present state of society at Bencoolen, on the subject of

the recent changes which have been effected. It has

occurred to me that this mode of exhibiting our real con
dition was advisable. My individual opinion might be

Idoubted, or supposed to be interested or biassed ; have,

therefore, availed myself of the support of others, and by

MEASURES FOR IMPROVEMENT OF NATIVES.  63

placing our clergyman at the head of the committee, given

a degree of weight which could not attach to the same ar

Iguments used by me alone. As have no council at Ben-
Icoolen, make committees supply their place. Reflect that

Bencoolen is the oldest establishment we have in India.

IIt is folly to say am doing the Company an injury in

exposing the vices of the system : they must be exposed

in order to produce a thorough repentance, without which

we cannot amend our ways ; or to use a more appropriate
phrase, turn over a new leaf. No man, and no body of
men, were ever condemned for acknowledging their errors,

provided they were resolved to depart from them : it is by
a perseverance in what is bad, by an endeavour to conceal

from ourselves and the world that things are as bad as

they really are, that we do mischief.
          * ** # #

  I I" feel so satisfied that all have done and am doing
Iat Bencoolen is right, that am only apprehensive on one

point, and that is, the authorities in Europe crying out

prematurely. The obstacles in my way, in the point of

economy, are great : while there is so large an establish

ment of civilians for whom there is no employment, and so

many dependants on the Company's bounty, what can be
done ? Remove the former, and let the latter die off, and

then we shall get on.

   " My health and constitution will not admit of my re

Imaining many years in India, and must endeavour, by

an increased activity, to make up for want of time. When

64 FINANCIAL REFORMS.

Ido you think shall get home ? Will seven years' banish
I Iment be enough for all my sins ? or must linger till

can sin no more ?

  I" You will be happy to hear that have the advantage

of a highly scientific friend in Dr. Jack, who supplies poor

*****IArnold's place.
have also two Frenchmen employed,

and my collections are very considerable ; and both Sophia

and myself pass many happy hours among the flowers,

the birds, and the beasts, &c.

  I" have revised the custom-house and port regulations,

which was absolutely necessary, and declared the port free
of all duties."

                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                        "At sea, in the Bay of Bengal, Nov. 9, 1820.

  I" Behold me again at sea in my passage to Bengal.

had hardly arrived at Bencoolen, when events occurred

Iwhich rendered this voyage indispensable ; but have

undertaken it alone, the smallness of the vessel and the

adverse season of the year inducing me to insist on Lady
Raffles remaining quietly at home. An opening seems

now to be afforded for extending my views and plans to

Ithe Eastward, and this shall be the last effort will make.
I IIf succeed shall have enough to occupy my attention
I I Iwhile remain in the East ; and if do not, can only

return to Bencoolen, and enjoy domestic retirement in the
bosom of my family.

          LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.     65

" In this country you will be happy to hear that we

have completely turned the tables on the Dutch. The

occupation of Singapore has been the death-blow to all

Itheir plans ; and trust that our political and commercial

interests will be adequately secured, notwithstanding the

unhandsome and ungenerous manner in which ministers

have treated me individually, or the indifference they
Ihave shown to the subject.
                             was perfectly aware that

they would not like the agitation of the question; but

they ought to have been aware that it could not be

avoided, and that however easy it may be in the Cabinet

to sacrifice the best interests of the nation, there are spirits

and voices engendered by the principles of our constitu

tion that will not remain quiet under it.  ***

   " But a truce to politics ; a few words on our domestic

Iarrangements and plans will, doubt not, be far more

interesting than all my public speculations. You are

already informed that Lady Raffles presented me with a

son and heir while at Penang ; he is now a fine stout boy,

*****and as bold as a lion ; the reverse of your god-daughter

in almost everything. She is the most gentle, timid

Ibeing in existence. It is now above a month since left

Ithem, and two more will elapse before see them again.
I" have endeavoured to supply the place of Dr.

Arnold by another botanical friend, and when other

objects do not distract us, we always find abundant em

ployment among our plants and animals. The two French

VOL. II.                                      F

66 LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

naturalists are indefatigable, and their collection is already

Ivery extensive.  am now preparing for transmission to

Sir Joseph a full description of the Duyong, or mermaid

Iof these seas.  am afraid, however, that the particulars

will but ill accord with the accounts of former travellers,

and that in this, as in many other cases, when we descend

from imagination to simple facts, there will be a wonder

Iful falling off; were it not so in the present instance,
Idon't know how could detail to you the relish with which
I dined off the flesh of one of these seducing animals.

  I" intended to have sent your Grace a detailed account
Iof my mission to Acheen, where had to put the crown

on the proper head ; but the subject is so mixed with

political matter, that I fear it would have but little in

terest ; for what can you care about a kingdom at the

other end of the world, and where the people have no

Ipeculiar virtues to recommend them ?  was detained in

the country for nearly two months, and to give you an

idea of my employment, it may be sufficient to state, that

our proceedings filled upwards of a thousand pages of

the Company's largest-sized paper. This is the labori
ous way in which we are sometimes obliged to do business
in India, and will perhaps account for my unwillingness

Ito enlarge farther on a subject of which must be pretty

well tired.

BIBLE SOCIETY.

TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

" At Sea, November 9th, 1819, within three

" My dear Cousin,  days' sail of Calcutta.

I" As know the warm interest you feel in our

Iplans of improvement, lose no time in enclosing, under

a separate cover, a copy of the first proceedings which

have been printed of our Bible Society, and a still more

interesting account of our schools : the latter forms but a

Ipart of a more general and extensive plan that have set

on foot for the spread of knowledge, and the growth of

moral principles throughout the Archipelago. Much of

Imy time has lately been devoted to these objects, and if

am able to carry my plan for the establishment of a native

Ifcollege at Singapore, the system will be complete.  you

refer to the map, and observe the commanding position

of Singapore, situated at the extremity of the Malay

Peninsula, you will at once see what a field is opened for

Iour operations. It is very probable that shall print a
Ifew copies of a paper which have drawn up on this sub
Iject, in which case shall not fail to send you a copy.

   " The Baptist Missionary Establishment have lately

written to me on the subject of sending out missionaries.

IMy answer is encouraging, and have accompanied it by

some general observations on the plan of conversion.

We have already one young man, and a small printing %

Ipress ; but we require active zeal, and shall find enough

to do for all you can send out ; but let them make haste --

                                                f2

08 LETTER TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

years roll on very fast. Two years have now elapsed

I Isince left England, and in five or six more hope to be

thinking of returning. There is no political objection
whatever to missionaries in this part of the East, and so
far from obstructing, they may be expected to hasten and
assist, the plans which are already in operation."

 *****TO THE SAME.
                         " Off the Sand Heads, Bengal, Nov. \0th, 1819.

    " My dear Cousin,
  I" wish to bespeak your good offices, and the exertion
Iof your energies, in support of an institution am about

to form for generally educating the higher class of natives.

The enclosed paper will place you in full/possession of my

Iviews, plans, and anticipations in this respect, and shall

not detain you here by a repetition of them.

  I" have written to Mr. Wilberforce on the subject, and

am anxious that he should take us under the parental

wing of the African Institution.  I promise glorious

Iresults, and all ask is support and encouragement, not

so much for myself, but to aid and foster a proper spirit

in those who must practically assist, and on whom the

Iimmediate superintendence and labour must fall, when

am over the seas, and far away. All improvements of

this nature must be slow and gradual, and we should look

Ia good way forward. The short time that may remain

in India will only serve to set the machine in motion --

          LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  69
*****and how uncertain after all is life ! Unless some perma

nent support is found in England, an accident to me
might destroy all my highest anticipations.
  I" am now on my way to Calcutta, in the hope of
Iforwarding all my plans--and if am successful, you shall

soon hear further from me. In the mean time, and

always, believe me, most affectionately,

                                              " T. S. Raffles."

   Referring to this subject in a letter to another friend,
of the same date, he says, " The field is certainly extensive

and interesting, and among so many good men at home,

it is hard if we cannot find some friends to the Eastern

IfIsles.  Mr. Wilberforce will take them up all will go

right."

The state of Sir Stamford's mind, in private as well as

in public, may be collected from the following letters,

*****written about this time.
                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.
                                            " Calcutta, December \7th, 1819.
I I" do all can to raise myself above these feelings, in

the hope that there is, even in this world, more happiness

than we weak mortals can comprehend.  I have had

enough of sorrow in my short career ; and it still comes

Itoo ready a guest without my bidding, but drive it

from my door, and do my best to preserve my health

70 LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

Iand spirits, that may last out a few years longer,
Iand contribute, as far as can, to the happiness of

others.

I I" But away with this melancholy strain.
                                          fear am

Igetting almost as bad as those to whom would preach ;

Iand, in truth, am at this moment heavy and sick at

Iheart.  could lay me down and cry, and weep for hours

I Itogether, and yet know not why, except that am un

Ihappy. But for my dear sister's arrival, should still

***** Ihave been a solitary wretch in this busy capital.  left

Lady Raffles and my dear children at Bencoolen three

Imonths ago ; and have no one here of congenial feelings
Iwith whom can communicate.

If I" there is time, will endeavour to send your Grace a

paper, which will explain to you more fully what my pre

Isent views and wishes are.  do not, however, set my

heart on them, or, indeed, on anything else, except re

Iturning to England as soon as possible.  am almost

tempted to say that this is becoming every day more and

Imore the sole object of my desires, and do yet hope that

ere the fifth repetition of Christmas, we may be within

reach of one of the Duke's parks. On my return to Ben
Icoolen, shall probably be able to speak more decidedly

Ion this point ; and in the mean time, what have now said
I Iwill, hope, convince you that am beginning to turn my

Ithoughts homewards.  must look out for some cottage

or farm, and profiting by the distresses of the great land

*****APPROVAL OF SIR STAMFORD'S PLANS.  71

holders, endeavour to sell butter and cheese to advantage

--do you think this would do ?"

TO .

" Diamond Harbour, January, 1820.

  I" have been delayed in Calcutta for a month longer
Ithan expected, on account of a severe and trying illness,

Iwhich has long confined me to my bed and room : am

Ihappy, however, to say, that am again convalescent, and

Iin a fair way of recovery.  embarked yesterday. Sophia

and the children were well the beginning of December,

I Ibut have not heard from them since sailed.
  I" Singapore, am happy to say, continues to rise most

rapidly in importance and resources. It is already one of
the first ports in the East, and I doubt not you will receive

Ivery favourable reports by every homeward-bound ship.

could write volumes in its favour, but it may suffice to say,
that it has in every respect answered, beyond my most san

guine expectations.

  "On leaving Calcutta, you will expect some opinion

from me on the state of my interests, and generally of the

opinion entertained respecting my views and plans to the

Ieastward. Here, as in England, find that my presence

has served to dissipate many a cloud, and that opposition
Ihas receded as approached.
                             There is a very favourable

Idisposition to me personally, but, believe, still more so

to my plans, which are now approved of, and upheld by all

72 APPROVAL OF SIR STAMFORD'S PLANS.

descriptions of persons, high and low. The following ex

Itract from a note have received from a very high and

influencing authority will speak for itself :--' Your very in

teresting report regarding the commercial relations of the

Eastern Islands is still in circulation with the members of

government. It will not, probably, lead to any practical

result in this country, but will, of course, be brought to the

Inotice of the authorities at home.  should sincerely re

joice to see adopted the admirable scheme which you have

sketched for the organization and management of our

IEastern possessions.  am surprised that the commercial

men of Calcutta have not more distinctly marked their

sense of the great advantages likely to accrue to the com

mercial interests of India and England, from the success

ful prosecution of your plan.'

   " With regard to the commercial men, nothing can ex

Iceed the attention have received from them : they gave

me a public dinner, and made every demonstration to me

personally during my stay in Calcutta ; but they wait till

I have left it to send in a written representation to Go

vernment, which, for many reasons, it is better should be

done during my absence.

  I" hope the Supreme Government will also forward, by

the present ship, their sentiments upon my administration

and proceedings at Bencoolen : they fully approve and

Iapplaud all have done, and their communications to me

on the subject are most flattering.
   " Report says, the Dutch have been driven out and

APPROVAL OF SIR STAMFORD'S PLANS.  73

massacred at Padang. Nothing is more likely, for their
conduct was abominable. Oh that our politicians at home

would act with a little common sense and firmness ! It is

folly for them to procrastinate ; and unless they do what
is just and fair, nature and circumstances will involve them
in the eventual necessity of a still more unpleasant inter
ference hereafter."

                 CHAPTER XV.

Sir Stamford fails in introducing a more economical and simple
  mode of government for the Eastern Islands -- Difficulties of
  altering established forms -- Illness -- Sight of Sumatra -- Tap-
  panooly -- Battas -- Population --Language--Manners-- Civilized
   cannibals -- Eating their prisoners of war, criminals, and parents,
   alive -- Description of eating a person as a punishment -- Padries
   -- Cholera Morbus -- Camphor tree -- Laws of the Battas -- Succes
   sion of nephews -- Mr. Ward's opinion.

Sir Stamford Raffles failed in his endeavour to prevail

upon the Supreme Government to introduce a more
simple mode of management for the Eastern Islands.

It is, perhaps, not easy to break up large and old esta

blishments, or to check the progress of patronage and
power. The government of Penang was admitted to be
a cumbrous, useless machine, for which no employment

could be found. A Resident with two or three assistants

at each were acknowledged to be sufficient for all the
duties at each of the three stations of Penang, Malacea,
and Singapore, --the latter was so fixed by Sir Stamford ;
but when Bencoolen was given up to the Dutch in 1824,
the East India Company transferred all the civil servants
from that establishment to these places, in two of which
there were already more than it was possible to find em

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.         75

ployment for ; and even since that event more young men
have been sent out to Penang. Under such arrangements
it is impossible to keep down expenditure ; and Singapore
has in consequence greatly increased in expense since Sir
Stamford relinquished his control over it.

  In the month of February, 1820, Sir Stamford pre

pared to leave Calcutta and return to Sumatra, with the
consciousness of having, to the utmost of his ability, en
deavoured to prevail upon those who had the power to
reform what was acknowledged to require reformation,

and to lessen expense where it was confessed that useless

expenditure existed.
   The nature of his feelings, and of his occupations on

his return to the scene of his public duties in Sumatra, is
well described by himself in his letters to different friends,
from which the following are extracts. They contain a
curious and almost original account of some of the in
habitants of that great island :--

TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

" Off Sumatra, February 12, 1820.

   " You will, perhaps, have condemned me for so long a

Isilence, yet when you know the cause, am satisfied you

will cease to think unkindly.

I" have been ill--very ill--so much so, that for the last

Imonth of my stay in Calcutta was confined to my bed,

Iand forbidden to write or even to think.  was removed

Ifrom my room to the ship with very little strength, but

                                                                -

76 DESCRIPTION OF THE BATTAS.

Iam happy to say that am already nearly recovered : the

sight of Sumatra, and the health-inspiring breezes of the

Malayan Islands, have effected a wonderful change ; and

I Ithough still feel weak, and am as thin as a scare-crow,

Imay fairly say that am in good health and spirits.
  I" am beginning to turn my thoughts homewards, and

shall very soon ask your advice on a thousand pursuits.
                  * *# *#

" I have just left Tappanooly, situated in the very heart

of the Batta country, abounding in camphor and ben

jamin, and full of interest for the naturalist and philoso

pher. If you have occasionally looked into Mr. Marsden's

History of Sumatra, you will recollect that the Battas are

Icannibals. Now do not be surprised at what shall tell
Iyou regarding them, for tell the truth, and nothing but

the truth.

I" To prepare you a little,  must premise that the

Battas are an extensive and populous nation of Sumatra,

occupying the whole of that part of the island lying be

tween Acheen and Menangkabu, reaching to both the

shores. The coast is but thinly inhabited, but in the

interior the people are said to be 'as thick as the leaves

of the forest perhaps the whole nation may amount to

between one and two millions of souls. They have a regu

lar government, deliberative assemblies, and are great

orators ; nearly the whole of them write, and they possess

a language and written character peculiar to themselves.

In their language and terms, as well as in some of their

DESCRIPTION OF EATING A CRIMINAL.                                 77

laws and usages, the influence of Hinduism may be
traced, but they have also a religion peculiar to them
selves ; they acknowledge the one and only great God,
under the title Dibala Assi Assi, and they have a Trinity

of great gods, supposed to have been created by him.
They are warlike, extremely fair and honourable in all
their dealings, most deliberate in all their proceedings ;
their country is highly cultivated, and crimes are few.

   " The evidence adduced by Mr. Marsden must have
removed all doubt from every unprejudiced mind that,

notwithstanding all this in their favour, the Battas are
strictly cannibals ; but he has not gone half far enough.

He seems to consider that it is only in cases of prisoners
taken in war, or in extreme cases of adultery, that the
practice of man-eating is resorted to, and then that it is
only in a fit of revenge. He tells us that, not satisfied

with cutting off pieces and eating them raw, instances
have been known where some of the people present have

run up to the victim, and actually torn the flesh from the

bones with their teeth. He also tells us, that one of our

Residents found the remains of an English soldier, who
had been only half eaten, and afterwards discovered his
finger sticking on a fork, laid by, but first taken warm

Ifrom the fire : but had rather refer your Grace to the

book ; and if you have not got it, pray send for and

read all that said about the Battas.

   " In a small pamphlet, lately addressed to the Court of

Directors, respecting the coast, an instance still more
is
                                                             it,

78 DESCRIPTION OF EATING A CRIMINAL.

horrible than any thing related by Mr. Marsden is intro
duced; and as this pamphlet was written by a high
authority, and the fact is not disputed, there can be no
question as to its correctness ; it is nearly as follows :--

  " A few years ago, a man had been found guilty of a

very common crime, and was sentenced to be eaten ac
cording to the law of the land ; this took place close to
Tappanooly ; the Resident was invited to attend ; he
declined, but his assistant and a native officer were pre
sent. As soon as they reached the spot, they found a
large assemblage of people, and the criminal tied to a
tree, with his hands extended. The minister of justice,
who was himself a Chief of some rank, then came for
ward with a large knife in his hand, which he brandished

as he approached the victim. He was followed by a man

carrying a dish, in which was a preparation or condiment,
composed of limes, chillies, and salt, called by the Malays

Sambul. He then called aloud for the injured husband,
and demanded what part he chose ; he replied the right

ear, which was immediately cut off with one stroke, and
delivered to the party, who, turning round to the man

behind, deliberately dipped it into the Sambul, and de
voured it ; the rest of the party then fell upon the body,
each taking and eating the part most to his liking. After
they had cut off a considerable part of the flesh, one man
stabbed him to the heart ; but this was rather out of com
pliment to the foreign visiters, as it is by no means the

custom to give the coup de grace.

         VISIT TO TAPPANOOLY.             79

" It was with a knowledge of all these facts regarding

Ithe Battas that  paid a visit to Tappanooly, with a

determination to satisfy my mind most fully in everything

Iconcerning their cannibalism. had previously set on foot

extensive inquiries, and so managed matters as to con

centrate the information, and to bring the point within a

narrow compass. You shall now hear the result: but,

I Ibefore proceed, must beg of you to have a little more
Ipatience than you had with Mr. Mariner.
                                          recollect that

when you came to the story of eating the aunt you threw

I Ithe book down. Now can assure your Grace that have

ten times more to report, and you must believe me.

  I I" have said the Battas are not a bad people, and

still think so, notwithstanding they eat one another, and

relish the flesh of a man better than that of an ox or a

Ipig. You must merely consider that am giving you an

account of a novel state of society. The Battas are not
savages, for they write and read, and think full as much

and more than those who are brought up at our Lancas
trian and National Schools. They have also codes of
laws of great antiquity, and it is from a regard for these

laws, and a veneration for the institutions of their ances

tors, that they eat each other. The law declares that for
certain crimes, four in number, the criminal shall be eaten
alive. The same law declares also, that in great wars,

that is to say, one district with another, it shall be lawful
to eat the prisoners, whether taken alive, dead, or in their

graves.

80 EATING CRIMINALS.

   " In the four great cases of crimes the criminal is also
duly tried and condemned by a competent tribunal. When

the evidence is heard sentence is pronounced, when the
Chiefs drink a dram each, which last ceremony is equiva
lent to signing and sealing with us.

   " Two or three days then elapse to give time for assem
bling the people, and in cases of adultery it is not allowed
to carry the sentence into effect, unless the relations of the
wife appear and partake of the feast. The prisoner is then

brought forward on the day appointed, and fixed to a stake
with his hands extended. The husband or party injured
comes up and takes the first choice, generally the ears ;
the rest then, according to their rank, take the choice
pieces, each helping himself according to his liking. After
all have partaken, the chief person goes up and cuts off
the head, which he carries home as a trophy. The head
is hung up in front of the house, and the brains are care
fully preserved in a bottle for purposes of witchcraft, &c.

In devouring the flesh, it is sometimes eaten raw, and

sometimes grilled, but it must be eaten upon the spot.
Limes, salt, and pepper, are always in readiness, and they
sometimes eat rice with the flesh, but never drink toddy or

spirits ; many carry bamboos with them, and filling them
with blood drink it off. The assembly consists of men
alone, as the flesh of man is prohibited to the females : it
is said, however, that they get a bit by stealth now and

then.

  I" am assured, and really do believe, that many of the

          EATING PARENTS.                         81

people prefer human flesh to any other, but notwithstand

ing this penchant they never indulge the appetite except

on lawful occasions. The palms of the hands, and the soles

of the feet, are the delicacies of epicures !
" On expressing my surprise at the continuance of such

Iextraordinary practices,  was informed that formerly it

was usual for the people to eat their parents when too old

for work. The old people selected the horizontal branch

of a tree, and quickly suspended themselves by their

hands, while their children and neighbours, forming a
circle, danced round them, crying out, ' When the fruit is

ripe, then it will fall.' This practice took place during the
season of limes, when salt and pepper were plenty, and as

soon as the victims became fatigued, and could hold on no

longer, they fell down, when all hands cut them up, and

made a hearty meal of them. This practice, however, of

eating the old people has been abandoned, and thus a step
in civilization has been attained, and, therefore, there are

hopes of future improvement.
   " This state of society you will admit to be very peculiar.

It is calculated, that certainly not less than from sixty to

one hundred Battas are thus eaten in a year in times of

peace.

  I" was going on to tell your Grace much about the treat
I Iment of the females and children, but find that have
Ialready filled several sheets, and that am called away
Ifrom the cabin ; will therefore conclude, with entreating

you not to think the worse of me for this horrible relation.

VOL. II.                                       Q

82 DESCRIPTION OF THE BATTAS.

IYou know that am far from wishing to paint any of the
IMalay race in the worst colours, but yet must tell the truth.
INotwithstanding the practices have related, it is my de

termination to take Lady Raffles into the interior, and to

spend a month or two in the midst of these Battas. Should

any accident occur to us, or should we never be heard of

more, you may conclude we have been eaten.

  I" am half afraid to send this scrawl, and yet it may

amuse you : if it does not, throw itin to the fire ; and still

believe that, though half a cannibal, and living among

Icannibals, am not less warm in heart and soul. In the

deepest recesses of the forest, and among the most

savage of all tribes, my heart still clings to those afar off ;

I Iand do believe that even were present at a Batta feast,
I should be thinking of kind friends at Maiden Bradley.

What an association ! God forgive me, and bless you all.

  I" am forming a collection of skulls ; some from bodies

that have been eaten. Will your Grace allow them room

among the curiosities ?"

         TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,  "At sea, off Anulabia, Feb. 13, 1820.

" Owing to my long absence from Bencoolen, and

frequent change of residence, my Europe letters have sel

dom reached me without considerable delay, and then en
Imasse.
         have now before me your letters of the * *

" After thanking you generally for these kind proofs of

          DESCRIPTION OF THE BATTAS.                    83

your attention and friendship, allow me to express my par

Iticular obligations to you for Marco Polo, which am
Ihappy to say has reached me in excellent condition.
Ihave not had time to read it through, but have devoted

all my spare hours to and mean to go through de suiteI it,
                                       I it
as soon as am once more settled at home.          :

   " am looking with anxiety for Crawfurd's work from
II
    ;Ithe time he has taken to arrange and polish, feel no
      II
doubt of its value.         expect from him a somewhat new

view of the literature, history, and antiquities of Java, as

he appears in his review of my work in the Edinburgh to

have thrown a cloud over that part of my story.      shall
                                                 I
be happy to stand corrected where am wrong, and to    I
                                    I

acknowledge my error but hope he will give something
                     ;

                         I

more than assertion as to the dates which he disputed.

have obtained some new lights on these since my return to

this country.

   " observe what you say in your last letter regarding

the publication of my late journeys in the interior. Dr.

Horsfield has sufficient materials. Should he not under

take it, shall have no objection to draw up the account

myself but confess would prefer its being undertaken
                     if I
by some other hand than mine.    II shall be most happy

to receive your suggestions as to the best mode of giving

the public an account of the kind.     have a good deal to

say about the interior of Moco Moco, and Sambi- Acheen,

and Palembang; and you purpose another edition of

Sumatra, perhaps some of the information may be useful
                                                           g2

84 ACCOUNT OF THE PADR1ES.

I Ito you.
am not desirous of publishing, and yet should

be sorry if the information were lost for want of it.

" From the map you will receive you will perceive an

essential difference in the situation of Pageruyong. It is

about thirty miles east of the west coast. From the dis
tracted state of the Menangkabu country, it was difficult

to obtain extensive information. The question regarding
the communication between the rivers of Siak and Indra-

giri must still rest on the authority on which you received

Iit; as far as could infer, and calculate distances and
Iprobabilities, conceive it most likely that no such com

munication exists. The Indragiri river appears to be

navigable for sloops of fifty and seventy tons, as high as

the Falls, and it is even said that boats of considerable

burthen are to be found above them. These are situated

in that part of the country usually called K'uantan, near
which the Sultan of Pageruyong has recently fixed his

residence.

  " It occurs to me that an account of the Orang Putis,

or Padries, might be well introduced into the account of

Iour journey to Menangkabu, and have already collected

some very interesting information respecting these people,

who, in many particulars, seem to resemble the Wahabees
of the desert. They have proved themselves most unre

lenting and tyrannical ; but their rule seems calculated to

reform and improve, inasmuch as it introduces something

like authority, so much wanted over all Sumatra."

The following is an extract from the paper of informa

ACCOUNT OF THE PADRIES.  85

tion collected on the occasions to which Sir Stamford here

alluded :--
   " The Padries are causing great alarm at our northern

stations, and seem to be rapidly increasing in power.
The natives say, at first one of the Chiefs of the country,
who was well-read in most religious books, had great

sense and cunning, and much wealth and influence, con
sulted with some of his friends of the neighbouring dis
tricts, to endeavour to introduce some improvements
among the people ; ' for,' he observed, ' not one-tenth of
the population prayed, or seemed to have any fear of
God ; but, on the contrary, were totally addicted to cock-
fighting and inebriety :' he was therefore determined to
abolish gambling, and to forbid the use of all intoxicating

beverages.

   " His friends wished him to go farther ; they alleged
that it was written, ' that he who did not pray, and refused
to embrace the tenets of the Koran, merited death and

confiscation:' it was then determined to enforce the tenets

of the Mahomedan religion throughout the province.
   " The Chief then proclaimed that the religion of Ma

homet consisted in four principal doctrines--faith, circum
cision, seclusion, and the knowledge of God, and that
prayer was the proof of religion ; and he entreated all

people to unite with him in establishing these doctrines
amongst themselves, and in every other country within
their means ; that the tokens of union in the cause of

God should be a beard for the males, and that the women

86 ACCOUNT OF THE PADR1ES.

should conceal their faces ; that neither sex should bathe

naked ; that the selling of strong drinks should be unlaw

ful, and the use of tobacco for smoking or eating should

be abolished.

   " The people generally, as may be supposed, were not

inclined to practise so much self-denial, and war was soon

declared against all who refused to pray and receive the

new tenets. The country was devastated, the people

plundered, and fines levied upon the conquered.  A

council was appointed to see that prayers were regular,

and that drinking, and eating tobacco were no longer

practised. A man who shaved away his beard was to be

fined. The filing of teeth was to be punished by the

Ifforfeit of a buffalo.  the faces of females were un

covered ; if women quarrelled ; if a child was beaten,

fines were imposed: long nails on the fingers were re

duced by cutting them and the flesh together, besides a

fine. Bepeated neglect of fast and prayers was punished

with death.  ****

I" intended to have written you very fully from Bengal,

Ibut was attacked by a severe fever, and not allowed to

use my pen for ten minutes together. I, however, for

Iwarded to you from thence several papers, which hope

may prove of some interest. One of these is the report

of a committee appointed to assist in forming something
like a statistical account of Sumatra. You are fully

aware of my sentiments respecting Bencoolen, and will
not, therefore, be surprised to find them confirmed in the

COLLEGE AT SINGAPORE.                                   87

Ireport. Not having a council, avail myself of the as

Isistance and advice of committees whenever  find it

necessary that my opinions should be examined or con

Ifirmed, and have already found considerable advantage

from the plan. In a small place like Bencoolen, it is

likely that such committees will generally feel the influ

ence of the superior authority ; but yet they may possess

independence and talent sufficient to assist and protect

that authority very essentially.

  I" Of my plan for a college at Singapore feel no doubt

you will approve generally. The success of the undertak

Iing will depend on the estimate  have formed of the

Icharacter of the people : if am right, they are a very

different people from those on the continent of India, and

it is in this difference that the advantage exists. On this

Isubject also, hope, when you are at leisure, you will

favour me with your sentiments.                          I

   " Of my own circumstances, plans, and expectations,

have not much to say at present. The result of my visit

to Bengal has been a more intimate connexion with that

government, and a strong recommendation home from

them in favour of all my plans, whether at Bencoolen,

Singapore, or Penang, or of the whole collectively.
   " You will be pleased to hear that Singapore has again

become a great and flourishing city. The population is

already more than three times thai of Bencoolen, and

Iis rapidly augmenting.  do not like to say much on the

subject, because it is something like praising one's own

8S CHOLERA MOKBUS.

Ichild ; but may fairly say that it has in every respect

exceeded even my most sanguine expectation, and this,

you will admit, is saying not a little.
   " With respect to the Dutch, everything remains in

great suspense pending the references made to Europe

by both parties. The Governor- General in council has

declared his sentiments of their proceedings in much less

Iqualified terms than had previously done, and does not

hesitate to tell the authorities of Batavia, that they have

been actuated throughout by views of unbounded ambi

tion, and an unfair and dishonourable attempt to injure

and degrade the English.

I" will not, however, detain you.  *       *

" The cholera morbus has lately committed dreadful

ravages at Acheen, Penang, and Quedah: it is now

Iraging at Malacca, and have great apprehensions for
ISingapore. From Bencoolen have not heard for some

Imonths, but am in hopes that the inhospitable nature of

our coast, and the poverty of our inhabitants, may for

once be in our favour, and that we shall neither receive so

unwelcome a guest, nor, if he does effect his landing, afford

him sufficient subsistence for his support. We fell in

with a brig yesterday from the Isle of France, where this

fatal disease appears also to have arrived: God knows

where it will go next; whether eastward to Siam and

China, or westward to Africa and Europe."

CANNIBALISM OF THK BATTAS.             SO

TO WM. MARSDEN, ESQ.

                                          ·' OffNattal, February nth, 1820.

    " My dear Sir,

       I" As shall find an arrear of five months to get
Ithrough at Bencoolen, it may be as well that communi

cate to you, without loss of time, some of the particulars

Iwhich have ascertained in my late visit to Tappanooly.

   " We had a fine view of the waterfall at Mansular, and

I did not fail to approach it in a boat near enough to

ascertain that it does not fall into a great Danu, but into

the sea. We landed on the Island, and collected a few

plants of undescribed species. The rock of which the

Island is composed is trap or basalt.

"A subject of greater interest was the camphor tree,

Iand, as might be expected,  tried my luck, and was for

tunate in procuring a small quantity of camphor from the

tree felled on the occasion. My friend, Dr. Jack, has

now satisfied himself on all points, and a detailed descrip

tion is in progress. You are already informed that the

flowers have been examined, and found to be monadel-

phous (mmadelphia polygamia) ; specimens have been

sent home to Mr. Brown and Mr. Lambert.

   " But my attention was still more attracted by the

Ipeople of the country ; and though our stay was short,

was enabled to satisfy myself fully on several very in

Iteresting points.  have found all you say on the subject

Iof cannibalism more than confirmed.   do not think you

CAKMBALISM OF THE BATTAS.

have even gone far enough. You might have broadly

stated, that it is the practice not only to eat the victim,

Ibut to eat him alive.     shall pass over the particulars of

Iall previous information which have received, and en

deavour to give you, in a few words, the result of a deli

Iberate inquiry from the Batta Chiefs of Tappanooly.

caused the most intelligent to be assembled ; and, in the

presence of Mr. Prince and Dr. Jack, obtained the fol
lowing information, of the truth of which none of us have

the least doubt.

  " It is the universal and standing law of the Battas,

that death by eating shall be inflicted in the following

cases.

   " 1st. For adultery.
   " 2nd. For midnight robbery ; and,
   " 3rd. In wars of importance, that is to say, one dis

trict against another, the prisoners are sacrificed.

   " 4th. For intermarrying in the same tribe, which is

forbidden from the circumstance of their having ancestors

in common ; and,           attack on a house, village, or

   " 5th. For treacherous

person.

  " In all the above cases it is lawful for the victims to

be eaten, and they are eaten alive, that is to say, they are
not previously put to death. The victim is tied to a

stake, with his arms extended, the party collected in a
circle around him, and the Chief gives the order to com
mence eating. The chief enemy, when it is a prisoner.

CANNIBALISM OF THE BATTAS.  91

or the chief party injured in other cases, has the first
selection ; and after he has cut off his slice, others cut off

pieces according to their taste and fancy, until all the
flesh is devoured.

  " It is either eaten raw or grilled, and generally dipped

in Sambul (a preparation of Chili pepper and salt),
which is always in readiness. Rajah Bandahara, a Batta,
and one of the Chiefs of Tappanooly, asserted that he was
present at a festival of this kind about eight years ago, at
the village of Subluan, on the other side of the bay, not
nine miles distant, where the heads may still be seen.

   " When the party is a prisoner taken in war, he is

eaten immediately, and on the spot. Whether dead or
alive he is equally eaten, and it is usual even to drag the

bodies from the graves, and, after disinterring them, to
eat the flesh. This only in cases of war.

   " From the clear and concurring testimony of all par
ties, it is certain that it is the practice not to kill the
victims till the whole of the flesh cut off by the party is
eaten, should he live so long ; the Chief or party injured

then comes forward and cuts off the head, which he carries

home as a trophy. Within the last three years there have
been two instances of this kind of punishment within ten
miles of Tappanooly, and the heads are still preserved.

   " In cases of adultery the injured party usually takes

the ear or ears ; but the ceremony is not allowed to take
place except the wife's relations are present and partake
of it.

92 CANNIBALISM OF THE BATTAS.

   " In these and other cases where the criminal is directed

to be eaten, he is secured and kept for two or three days,

till every person (that is to say males) is assembled. He

is then eaten quietly, and in cold blood, with as much
ceremony, and perhaps more, than attends the execution
of a capital sentence in Europe.

   " The bones are scattered abroad after the flesh has

been eaten, and the head alone preserved. The brains
belong to the Chief, or injured party, who usually pre
serves them in a bottle, for purposes of witchcraft, &c.
They do not eat the bowels, but like the heart ; and many
drink the blood from bamboos. The palms of the hands
and the soles of the feet are the delicacies of epicures.

   " Horrid and diabolical as these practices may appear,
it is no less true that they are the result of much deli
beration among the parties, and seldom, except in the
case of prisoners in war, the effect of immediate and pri

vate revenge. In all cases of crimes, the party has a

regular trial, and no punishment can be inflicted until
sentence is regularly and formally passed in the public
fair. Here the Chiefs of the neighbouring kampong
assemble, hear the evidence, and deliberate upon the
crime and probable guilt of the party ; when condemned,
the sentence is ratified by the Chiefs drinking the tuah,
or toddy, which is final, and may be considered equivalent

to signing and sealing with us.

  I" was very particular in my inquiries whether the

assembly were intoxicated on occasions of these punish

         CANNIBALISM OF THE BATTAS.         93

Iments.  was assured it was never the case. The people

take rice with them, and eat it with the meat, but no tuah

is allowed. The punishment is always inflicted in public.
The men alone are allowed to partake, as the flesh of man

is prohibited to the women (probably from an apprehen

sion that they might become too fond of it). The flesh is
not allowed to be carried away from the spot, but must

be consumed at the time.

  I" am assured that the Battas are more attached to

these laws than the Mahomedans are to their Koran, and

that the number of the punishments is very considerable.

My informants considered that there could not be less

than fifty or sixty men eaten in a year, and this in times
of peace ; but they were unable to estimate the true ex

tent, considering the great population of the country :

they were confident, however, that these laws were strictly

enforced, wherever the name of Batta was known, and

that it was only in the immediate vicinity of our settle

ments that they were modified or neglected. For proof,

they referred me to every Batta in the vicinity, and to the
number of skulls to be seen in every village, each of which
was from a victim of the kind.

   " With regard to the relish with which the parties
devour the flesh, it appeared that, independent of the
desire of revenge which may be supposed to exist among
the principals, about one-half of the people eat it with a
relish, and speak of it with delight : the other half, though

present, may not partake. Human flesh  is,  however,

94 CANNIBALISM OF THE BATTAS.

generally considered preferable to cow or buffalo beef, or

hog, and was admitted to be so even by my informants.

   " Adverting to the possible origin of this practice, it

was observed that formerly they ate their parents when
too old for work : this, however, is no longer the case, and

thus a step has been gained in civilization.

  " It is admitted that the parties may be redeemed for a

pecuniary compensation, but this is entirely at the option
of the chief enemy or injured party, who, after his sen
tence is passed, may either have his victim eaten, or he
may sell him for a slave ; but the law is that he shall be
eaten, and the prisoner is entirely at the mercy of his

prosecutor.

   " The laws by which these sentences are inflicted are

Itoo well known to require reference to books, but am

promised some MS. accounts which relate to the subject.

These laws are called huhum pinang an, from depang an,

to eat --law or sentence to eat.

  I" could give you many more details, but the above

may be sufficient to show that our friends the Battas are

even worse than you have represented them, and that

Ithose who are still sceptical have yet more to learn.

have also a great deal to say on the other side of the

Icharacter, for the Battas have many virtues. prize them

highly. However horrible eating a man may sound in

IEuropean ears, question whether the party suffers so

much, or the punishment itself is worse than the Euro

Ipean tortures of two centuries ago.  have always

               LAWS OF INHERITANCE.  95

doubted the policy, and even the right of capital punish

ment among civilized nations; but this once admitted,

Iand torture allowed,  see nothing more cruel in eating a

man alive than in torturing him for days with mangled

limbs and the like. Here they certainly eat him up at

once, and the party seldom suffers more than a few

minutes. It is probable that he suffers more pain from

the loss of his ear than from what follows : indeed he is

said to give one shriek when that is taken off, and then to

continue silent till death.
   " These severe punishments certainly tend to prevent

crimes. The Battas are honest and honourable, and pos

Isess many more virtues than have time to put down.
  I" have arranged to pay a visit to Tobah, and the

banks of the great lake, in the course of next year, and

my plan is to go into the interior by the way of Barus,

and to return by way of Nattal, taking the longest sweep

Iwhere our influence will be most felt. Lady Raffles will,
Ihope, accompany me, and shall endeavour to give up full
Isix weeks for the trip. am perfectly satisfied we shall be
I Isafe, and hardly know any people on whom would

sooner rely than the Battas. In examining your map, it

appears to me that you have carried the places mentioned

in Miller's journey much too far to the eastward : for in

stance, Batangenan, which is inserted near the eastern

coast. He certainly never penetrated half across the

island, and in my opinion hardly beyond the first range

of low hills.

96 LAWS OF INHERITANCE.

   " It may be interesting to you to know, that it is not

among the Battas that the nephew inherits the rank and
title; they invariably marry by jujur, and the eldest son
succeeds. Personal property is divided, two-thirds to the
eldest son, and one-third among the rest, boys and girls
alike. Where there are more wives than one, the eldest

son of the first wife succeeds.

  " It is among the Malays that the succession of the

nephew takes place. The Malays, as you are aware, trace
their descent from Pati sa Batang and Kai Tumungung
of Menangkabu. With the descendants of the former
the nephew or kammanakan always succeeds. With the
descendants of Kai Tumungung the eldest son or anak
succeeds. The people of the Bander su Pulu, and nearly
of all Padang, are of the tribe or division of Pati sa Ba

tang, and this will account for the nephew succeeding with

them.

   " At Nattal the grandson inherits, unless the persons

are married by jujur, when the son succeeds in preference.

   " In my inquiries after books Rajah Bandara gave me
the names and contents that follow :--

" 1. Dha'un. On medicine.        On Astrology.
" 2. Pehi on Balangkahan Malay.

" 3. Tandong. On the Art of War.
" 4. Rumba. On Ditto, and which is referred to in

cases of the last extremity.
   " 5. Pangram bui. Rules for taking up proper posi

tions, &c. in war (Quarter-Master-General's department).

          LAWS OF INHERITANCE.     97

   " The great god of the Battas is styled Debatta Assi
Assi ; and he it is who is supposed to have created Batara
Guru, Seri Pada, and Mangala Bulan, the inferior Trinity

of their worship.

  " It would also appear that they have also something

like an ecclesiastical Emperor or Chief, who is universally

acknowledged, and referred to in all cases of public cala
mity, &c. His title is Sa Singah Maha Rajah, and he
resides at Bakara, in the Toba district. He is descended

from the Menangkabu race, and is of an antiquity which
none disputes. My informants say certainly above thirty
descents, or 900 years. He does not live in any very
great state, but is particular in his observances ; he neither

eats hog nor drinks tuah. They believe him possessed of
supernatural powers. He can blight the paddy, or re

store the luxuriance of a faded crop.
   " Writing is said to have been first introduced among

the Battas by two persons named Datu Dalu and Datu

Labi.

   " At Selingdong is a stone image of a man, of great

antiquity, supposed to have been brought from Page-

ruyong.

   " Mr. Prince has recently discovered the ruins of a

temple, with an inscription on stone, in unknown charac

ters, inland of Nattal. People are at present employed

in obtaining fac similes, but it is at some distance ; and

I Iuntil can visit the spot myself, do not calculate on

much. The inscriptions obtained at Menangkabu have

VOL. II.                        H

98 EXCURSION INTO THE BATTA COUNTRY.

been translated by the Panambahan of Samanap into
Javanese."

    The following is an extract from a letter of Mr. Ward,
a missionary, who afterwards made an excursion into the

Batta country. It is introduced here as a corroboration
of the truth of this extraordinary practice :--

  " Four days after my arrival at Tappanooly, I com

menced an excursion into the Batta country with Mr.
Burton. We entered at the old settlement of Tappa
nooly, and pursued a north-westerly course, with the view
of penetrating as far as the great lake of Toba. The
hills were clothed with their native woods, and but thinly.

At the distance of about twenty miles from the western

coast, where the country assumed a more even surface, the
forests entirely disappeared, and gave place to cultivation
and an extensive body of people. The district of Silin-
dang so highly gratified us, that we were tempted to
remain a few days previously to prosecuting our journey
to the Lake, a couple of days in advance. Three thousand
people, who had never beheld a white face, received us in
a manner perhaps similar to what we read of respecting
the first appearance of the Spaniards in America. We
were kept for four hours, on an elevation of twelve feet,
exhibiting our persons ; and not an hour passed for
several days, during which we were not surrounded with
crowds from various parts of the country. Some vene

EXCURSION INTO THE BATTA COUNTRY.  99

rated us as gods ; all paid us much respect ; and in point
of treatment, we had nothing to complain of. To an
assembly of the Chiefs the objects of our mission were
explained : several tracts were read, and the future intro
duction of books was proposed, to all of which they
listened with interest and pleasure, and frankly invited
Mr. Burton to take up his abode with them ; and we may

view the result as a pleasing prospect for his future
labours. Our notions relative to the Batta character and

habits have been much corrected. We found them quiet
and harmless, and much more under the influence of civil

order than had been supposed, although their govern
ment appeared of a singular nature. The practice of
cannibalism was general and frequent. Mr. Burton had
soon an attack of dysentery, in which he exhausted his
little store of medicine, and we were compelled to return
without actually seeing the Lake. We gained some in
teresting particulars of it, which shall be duly mentioned.
We discovered a hot mineral spring, depositing large

Iquantities of lime. On the whole, may say the Batta
Icountry, with regard to scenery, surpasses everything

have yet beheld : it possesses a delighful climate, an ex

tensive population, and extreme fertility.

  I" At Sibolga procured specimens for Batta types, and

made arrangements for two native schools."

    Mr. Burton, the Missionary, who is named in the fore

 going letter, had requested permission to leave Bencoolen-
and settle in the Batta country, with his wife and children

                                                                   ii 2

100  DEATH OF MR. BURTON.

for the purpose of establishing schools, and devoting his
life to the education and improvement of a people whose
character and barbarous customs excited general horror
and detestation. He was exceedingly well received, and
the people gladly availed themselves of the means of in
struction thus offered them : but after having laboured
diligently for several years, and succeeded in establishing
schools, both himself and his wife fell a sacrifice to the cli

mate ; and the Editor cannot but bear her testimony to
the brightness of faith, the humble trust in God alone, the
total sacrifice of all personal comfort, which they evinced
when they went with their infant children amongst these
people, with the determination there to live and die ; there
to devote themselves to their labour of love, in the hope of
conveying the glad tidings of the Gospel to those who had
yet to learn that the Son of God died for them.

                CHAPTER XVI.

Sir Stamford devotes himself to his favourite pursuits --Builds a

   house in the country -- Collections in Natural History sent home --
   Correspondence of Captain Flint with the Java Government -- Im
   provement in Bencoolen -- Pulo Nias -- Easy communication with

   Palembang across the Island -- Sir Stamford's description af his
   Children -- His confidence that he has pursued a right course -- His
   defence of his conduct --His opinion of the powers he was invested
   with -- Arrival of Missionaries -- Mr. Burton settles in the Batta
   country-- Sir Stamford not supported by the Ministry-- Introduc
   tion of British manufactures into China -- Agricultural Society --
   Expense of Singapore -- Manufacture of Sugar-- Colonization --
   --Lake of Korinbie --Nutmeg-trees--Malayan plants -- Political
   speculation -- Death of the Editor's brother.

On his return to Bencoolen (March, 1820) Sir Stamford
felt that, politically, he had done all in his power to pro
mote the best general and national interests of his country
in the Eastern Seas ; and from this time he devoted him
self to the improvement of the little settlement, the more
immediate scene of his residence and government; and
indulged in pursuits to which he was always passionately
attached. He resolved to build a house in the country ;
and as soon as one room was finished, took a part of his
family, and occupied himself in cultivating the ground.
He formed spice plantations to a large extent, and suc
ceeded in introducing the cultivation of coffee. The labour
was performed by convicts, who were settled in a village,

 102 SIR STAMFORD BUILDS A HOUSE IN THE COUNTRY.

 and soon became a useful community. The beauty, the
 retirement, the quiet domestic life, which he led in this
 happy retreat, soon restored his health ; he rose at four in
 the morning, worked in his garden (in which he always
 planted all the seeds himself) until breakfast ; then wrote
 and studied till dinner; after which he examined his

 plantations, always accompanied by his children ; and
 often walked about until a late hour of the night. But
 his manner of life at this period may be best known by a
 reference to the following selections and extracts from his

 correspondence.

                                   to .

                                                         " Bencoolen, March 12, 1820.

          I" You will be happy to hear that am once more

in the bosom of my family, and in the enjoyment of every
possible domestic felicity. We arrived here a few days
ago, and found everything going on well, and as it should
do. The country is perfectly quiet, the people satisfied,
and Bencoolen, on the whole, improving ; so much so, that
as far as our personal comforts are concerned, we shall
regret whenever the order arrives that we must quit it.

    " Charlotte and Leopold are in high health and spirits ;
and in the course of two or three months, we hope to
make up the trio. Sophia is quite well ; and, as you may
well conceive, quite happy at my return, after an absence

Iof five months : for myself, never was in better health.

   " We are doing wonders in natural history, notwithstand
ing the want of support on the part of the Government.

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.           103

   " We have literally nothing for the civil servants to do
at Bencoolen, and idleness is the root of all evils ; they
ought to be transferred to some other settlement, and not

to be obliged to waste their time, life, and health here.
   " The Sultan of Palembang still maintains his inde

pendence, having driven the Dutch out of the river with
the loss of many ships and lives."

                TO MR. MARSDEN.

" My dear Sir,  " Bencoolen, March 14, 1820.

"I shall have the opportunity of writing you

very fully by the Mary in the course of a few days ; in the

Imeantime it may be interesting to you to know that pur

pose sending by her the whole of our zoological collection,

among which are beautiful specimens of the tapir, rhino

ceros, kijangs, &c. stuffed, in skeleton, and in spirits. It

Iwill, think, be as important and interesting a consign
Iment as was ever sent home.
                              have had, as you may

suppose, a great deal of trouble.
   " The term of their engagement is now concluded with

my French naturalists ; and they are pledged by duty and

honour not to publish until the collections arrive and are

noticed in England.

  I" find the krabut, or great flower, to be much more

Igeneral and more extensively known than expected : in

some districts it is simply called ambem ambem, and it

seems to spring from the horizontal roots of those immense

climbers or limes which are attached like cables to the

104 ANIMALS OF SUMATRA.

largest trees of the forest. It takes three months from

the first appearance of the bud to the full expansion of

the flower ; and the flower appears but once a year, at the
conclusion of the rainy season*.

    " Further inquiries respecting the tunnu and babi-ala
induce me to believe that there is still some large animal

in our forests not inferior in size to the tapir, marked with

a narrow riband of white around the belly and back. The

tapir having remained so long undiscovered, affords at
least some grounds for concluding it possible that others

may exist. The natives who describe this animal simply
say, that the white band is narrow, the feet three-toed,
head truncated, and tail long. The chungkor of Palem-
bang may be a third animal.

  I" have a long list of animals, of which nothing yet is

known beyond the name and native description.

  I" have recently heard of several interesting remains of

antiquity in the interior.

   * An account of the Rafflesia Arnoldi completing its botanical
history, will appear in the next part of the Linnean Society's Trans
actions. Since its discovery in Sumatra, a second species of Rafflesia,
but little inferior in size, has been described and figured in the Flora
Java of Dr. Blume, and a distinct but nearly-related genus (Brug-
mansia) has also been discovered in Java, and described in the same
work. In the Paper about to appear in the Linnean Society's Trans
actions, these two, with a few other genera, allied in structure and of
like economy, are considered as forming a separate natural order of
plants, to which the name of Rafflesiacea has been given.

   The Editor is indebted to the kindness of Robt. Brown, Esq., so well
known as a distinguished botanist, for this information. -- May, 1835.

ANIMALS OF SUMATRA.               105

   " As the French gentlemen decline giving me the Lin-

I Insean descriptions require, shall set to work directly in

framing a kind of catalogue raisonne, which shall be sent

Iby the Mary, or the first ship that follows. In this shall

give a short description of the most remarkable subjects,

without reference to what the French artists may say on

availing myself of their papers.

I" The duyong, which sent to Sir Joseph Banks, will,

I Ihope, have arrived safe.  have the skin and another

complete skeleton here ; also one about four and a half feet

long, preserved in spirits. In consequence of Sir Everard

IHome's notice, immediately turned my attention towards

it, and procured two specimens in a few months.

  I" With respect to the tapir, am not surprised that an

account was first published in France. Major Farquhar

had sent a stuffed specimen and a head to the Asiatic
Society, with a paper descriptive of the animal, and giving
an account of the discovery. About the same time a

living animal was sent from Bencoolen to the menagerie

at Calcutta.

  " It was from the examination of these in Calcutta that

the Frenchmen prepared their accounts ; and the omission

on our part is attributable, in a great measure, to the

dilatoriness in the publications of the Asiatic Society.

  I" have now several specimens, two male and female

dried and stuffed, four in spirits, and four in skeleton.
   " The Frenchmen maintain that the babi ala is one and

Ithe same animal with the tunnu : suspect, however, that

106 CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT.

they are mistaken. The true babi ala is represented to
be a very different animal : it is the chungkor of Palem-
bang, and abounds particularly in the district of Ban-

guasin : the bones are preserved for medicinal purposes.

  "If the description is correct, and you know how far

reliance is to be placed on the unvarnished tale of the

Sumatrans, this must be either a new animal altogether,

or the babi rusa.

  I I" should here mention, that do not find the babi

rusa to be known as a native of Sumatra, and unless it

should turn out to be the babi ala, which is at least doubt

Iful, it cannot, think, be yet considered as part of our
Ifauna. What our future discoveries may lead to will

not say. Of the deer we have several specimens.

  I" The skins of our rhinoceroses are all soft. As yet

can only trace the two-horned animal in Sumatra. The

Iwhite-banded animal, which have provisionally termed a

rhinoceros, on account of the horn, must be an entirely

new animal.

  I" break off to give audience to no less than three

Sultans, who have been waiting for me for the last hour ;

and a man this moment appears with a cobra capella
winding round his arm : it is not so large as the serpent
of India, but has exactly the same description of hood.

   " My tunjong segara expands rapidly, and is by far the
brightest floweret of our Eastern Isle ; and my little boy
Leopold is following quickly in her steps : in a few weeks
Lady Raffles promises me a continuation of the series."

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT. 107

                    TO .

                                                                             " Bencoolen.

I" By the ship Mary have sent a most valuable collec

tion in natural history. The greatest possible care has

been taken to render the collection valuable, and an ap

Ipropriate accompaniment to that from Java. All ask is,

that you will not be lukewarm in promoting the interests

of science and general knowledge.
I I" have thrown politics far away ; and since
                                                must

have nothing more to do with men, have taken to the

wilder but less sophisticated animals of our woods. Our

house is on one side a perfect menagerie, on another a

perfect flora : here, a pile of stones ; there, a collection of

Isea-weeds, shells, &c.  enclose you a curious corre

spondence, which has taken place between the authorities
in Java, and my brother-in-law, Captain Flint, who

touched at Batavia on his way to Singapore : it will show

you the degree of personal feeling that still exists on the

part of the Dutch.

FROM MR. BRAND, RESIDENT OF BATAVIA, TO

                    CAPTAIN FLINT, R.N.

" ' Sir,                 " ' Batavia, March 29th, 1 820.

" ' The Resident of Batavia having laid before his

Excellency the Governor-General your application for

Ileave to proceed to Samarang, am directed to inform

you that, under existing circumstances, no person who

108 CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT.

may any ways be supposed to be connected with Sir

Stamford Raffles and his views, either avowed or con

cealed, can be allowed a free ingress into the Island of
Java, and that your request to be permitted to proceed

to the eastern districts cannot therefore be acquiesced in.

   " ' In regretting that public grounds should lead to a

refusal which may, perhaps, be productive of individual
hardships, it is, however, satisfactory to reflect, that the

alleged object of your voyage to Samarang, viz. the ad

justment of private concerns with Messrs. Deans, Scott, and
Co., may be obtained with equal facility at Batavia, where

a branch of that house is established.

  I" ' retain the passport under which you proceeded to

this place, and have the honour to be, Sir,

                    " ' Your obedient servant,

          (Signed)  " ' J. E. Brand.'

TO J. E. BRAND, ESQ. SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT.

" ' Sir,            " ' Batavia, April 6th, 1820.

        " ' In adverting to the general tenor of your letter

Iof the 29th of March, cannot but express my astonish
Iment at so unexpected a communication ; and should
Ibe wanting in duty to myself and to the rank have the

Ihonour to hold in the service of my country, did allow

it to pass unnoticed.

   " ' The cause of my visit to Java was entirely of a private

Inature, which conceive is sufficiently proved by my

having brought out a passport from his Excellency the

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT. 109

IDutch Ambassador in London, which had the honour

to enclose in my letter to the Resident, for the informa

tion of his Excellency the Governor-General, and there

fore cannot, by liberal minds, be construed as in any

way connected with the situation or views of Sir Stamford

Raffles ; and allow me here to observe, that it is not con

sistent with the known character of a Captain in the
British Navy to act so degrading a part as that of a spy--

a term not absolutely expressed, but most distinctly im

plied by the whole tenor of your letter.

" ' My conduct, from the moment of my arrival, will bear

Ithe strictest scrutiny.  landed in my uniform, and im

mediately called at the Government-house. The follow

Iing day had the honour to dine with his Excellency, in

Ithe same dress.  took that opportunity to mention my

wish to proceed to Samarang.

   " ' At that time the Governor- General made no objec

Ition whatever, but, on the contrary, inquired if wished
Ito proceed overland. This declined in the most re

spectful manner, and on my quitting the Government-

house, his Excellency referred me to the Resident, as the

channel through which all public communications are

Imade.  have written my name in full on the cover of

Ievery letter  have sent through the post-office, or

otherwise.                                   That part of
   " ' This does not savour of concealment.

your letter negativing my being allowed, therefore, a free

ingress into the Island of Java, must have been written

110 CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE DUTCH GOVERNMENT.

in total misconception of mine to the Governor- General ,

and my subsequent letter to the Resident, if proof be

Iwanting, is sufficient of itself to show had no wish or

inclination to visit the interior of the Island.

             I" ' have the honour to be, Sir,

                                 " ' Your obedient servant,

          (Signed)           " ' Wm. Flint.'

          TO W. FLINT, ESQ.

" « Sir,            " ' Batavia, April 8th, 1 820.

" ' Having laid your letter of the 30th March and

6th instant before his Excellency the Governor- General,

I am now directed to give the following reply thereto :--
  I" ' The communication which had the honour to ad

dress to you on the 29th cannot, but by a studious mis
construction, be made subservient to inferences of the

nature alluded to by you. The tenor of that letter was

frank and unequivocal, and sprung from no other motive

but the very natural desire to restrain the admittance of
all persons, who might be supposed to possess that same
eagerness of disseminating a hostile spirit towards the
Dutch authorities, of which the late acts and attempts of
Sir Stamford Raffles bear such decided and irrefragable

testimony : for although the aspersions here alluded to, in

whatever form thrown out, have been met by the Govern

ment with the only feeling which they are calculated to
excite, yet it cannot be a matter of astonishment that the

RAPID IMPROVEMENT OF SINGAPORE.                  Ill

Government should be unwilling to admit, without re

straint, persons in whom the same tendency to indiscreet

and ungenerous censure may be expected.

   " ' The tenor, however, of your last letter to my address

has induced the Governor- General not to apply to you

personally a measure in which, at first view, you ap
peared, from a general consideration of your private and
public connexions with Sir Stamford Raffles, to be in
cluded; and relying, therefore, in the most unreserved

manner, and with all confidence due to the rank you

occupy in the British Navy, (a corps so eminently distin

guished for honourable principles,) on the assurance given

by you as to the object of your visit to this island, his

Excellency is pleased to permit you to proceed to Sama-

rang, for which purpose the necessary passport will be

issued to you on application to the Resident of Batavia.

       I" ' have the honour to be, Sir,

" ' Your most obedient humble servant,

               (Signed)  " · J. E. Brand.' "

               TO .

                         " Bencoolen, April 3, 1820.

I" Singapore,  am happy to say, continues to thrive

beyond all calculation, notwithstanding the * * * *

and the uncertainty of possession. The exports and im

ports, even by native boats alone, exceed four millions of

dollars in the year.                             The only
   " Sophia and our little ones are quite well.

112 LETTER TO MR. MARSDEK.

loss in our family has been in the death of my favourite

Ibear, whose demise shall not fail to notice with due

honour when treating on Natural History."

                                     TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                                  " Bencoolen, April \ith, 1820.

   " My dear Sir,

      I" cannot allow a direct opportunity to pass without

again thanking you for the kind interest you continue to
take in our welfare, and letting you know that we continue
in excellent health, with as fair prospects as political circum
stances at present admit. My two children expand daily,
and are all and everything we could wish them. Lady

IRaffles bears the climate better than expected.
  I" In the political world have nothing to communicate.

In Java all remains quiet. The Dutch have wisely fol

I Ilowed up the revenue system established ; and though
Icould say a great deal against particulars, am on the

whole tolerably satisfied with what they have done in this

respect.

   " We are anxiously awaiting the final arrangements
from home. My last advices were in August, at which
date the subject had been taken up. Java, and the Mo

luccas, with Macassar, or Celebes, is all that strictly ought
to be left to the Dutch. Banca is of no further value to

them.

          IMPROVEMENT AT BENCOOLEN.         113

          TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

          " Bencoolen, April 18th, 1820.

I" wrote you very fully about three weeks ago by the

IMary, by which ship sent Sir Joseph Banks a large con

Isignment of prepared animals.  hope they have arrived

Isafe, and proved that we are not idle.  have just now so

Ilittle to do with politics, that am able to devote a good

Ideal of time to natural history ; and think you would be
I Iamused to see the extensive collection am making.

intend to send you a large consignment by the first

Ifavourable conveyance, of which  shall request your

Grace's kind care, until my return to England. This

Imay serve as an indication that am looking forward to

the day when we may again meet. Two years have rolled

Iaway already ; three or four more will, hope, accomplish
Iall the objects have in view in this country ; and then--
Iwe shall hope meet again, all parties a few years older,

but in other respects neither colder nor less happy than

before we parted. We must now begin to forget those
hateful words ' Good bye,' and to think of ' How do you
do V -- Time flies fast--where are the years that are past--

and how short may those which are to come appear when

once we have again met, and look back Upon them 1

  I" Your Grace will, doubt not, be happy to hear that

our prospects, even at Bencoolen, are improving; the

place no longer has that gloomy and desolate appearance

Iof which first complained. Population and industry are

VOL. II.                                 I

114  ACCOUNT OF THE PULO NIAS.

increasing; the inland merchants begin to bring down
the gold and cassia from the interior, and a stranger
would hardly know the place again, so much is it changed
from what it was two years ago. We have a good many
comforts about us, and shall really regret any political

necessity which obliges us to remove from what has now

become our second home. We have a delightful garden,

and so many living pets, children tame and wild,

monkeys, dogs, birds, &c., that we have a perfect regne

animale within our own walls, to say nothing of the sur

Irounding forests now under contribution.  have one of

the most beautiful little men of the woods that can be

conceived ; he is not much above two feet high, wears a

beautiful surtout of fine white woollen, and in his dis

position and habits the kindest and most correct creature

imaginable ; his face is jet black, and his features most

expressive ; he has not the slightest rudiments of a tail,

Ialways walks erect, and would am sure become a favour

ite in Park Lane.

I" Not long ago gave your Grace a short account of

Imy Batta friends.  am now much engaged in obtaining

particulars of a very extensive and interesting population

in one of the larger islands lying off Sumatra, Pulo Nias.
   " The Nias people believe in one Supreme God, Lora

Langi, but they do not pay him any kind of public wor

ship. Below him is another God, called Batu Ba Danaw,

who has charge of the earth, which they say is suspended

from a stalk, or string, as an orange from the branch of a

ACCOUNT OF THE PULO MAS.      115

tree. This is, perhaps, as happy an idea as the double-

headed shot of Lord Erskine, and perhaps his Lordship
may avail himself of the hint in the next volume of Ar-

mata. The world they suppose to have seven stages, or

gradations, inhabited by as many different orders of

beings. The stage immediately under us is possessed by

dwarfs. The heavens, or sky above us, (Holi Yawa,) are

peopled by a superior order of men, (Barucki,) of a most

beautiful form and appearance. These are gifted with

wings, and are invisible at pleasure, and they take an

interest in all that passes on earth ; they are governed by

kings of their own : the one at present reigning is called

Luo Mehuhana ; there were four kings who ruled before

him, and from whom he is descended.

   " ' The people of the earth,' they say, ' had for a length

of time continued in a state of the grossest ignorance and

barbarism; they neither lived in houses nor tilled the

ground, but wandered about, subsisting on what the

earth spontaneously produced. At last, the wife of Luo

Mehuhana took pity upon their miserable condition, and

ordered one of her subjects to descend to the earth, and

teach its inhabitants the arts of civilization. He accord

ingly descended on Pulo Nias, and instructed them how
to till the ground, to live in houses, to cook their victuals,

and to form societies. He taught them also to speak,

for hitherto they had not possessed even this means  of
communication . '
                                                     to
  " Their laws are remarkably severe. It is death

                          i2

116  ACCOUNT OF THE PULO MAS.

touch any part, even the finger, of an unmarried woman,

Ior the wife of another man ; but, notwithstanding this,

do not learn that they are particularly chaste. The wives

are bought from the parents, as in Sumatra ; and a man

may have as many as he can afford to pay for.

  I" will not at present trouble you with further par

ticulars ; the above will be sufficient to show that they are

at least very original in their ideas ; and on this account,

if on no other, they must excite an interest.
  I" must not close my letter without a few words on the

Ipolitics of this part of the world, in which hope your

Grace still continues to take some interest.

   " It will be satisfactory to you to know that the Dutch

authorities in this country have at length been brought to

their senses ; and if what has been done here is only sup

ported and followed up with common prudence and deci

sion, we may at least save our commercial interests from

the ruin which so lately impended. Singapore continues
to rise as rapidly as all the out-stations of the Dutch

decline."

   The following extract of a letter from Sir Joseph Banks

to Dr. Horsfield will show the high opinion he enter

tained of Sir Stamford, as well as of the botanical collec

tions made in Java, and the encouragement he so liberally

and generously extended to all those in pursuit of scien
tific objects ; it was written in the year 1817, when Sir
Stamford was in England :--

   " The collections are interesting in the extreme, and will,

LKTTER TO MR. MARSDEN.                 117

when published, make very valuable additions to the

science of botany. Your industry, Sir, in collecting them

is praiseworthy in the extreme ; and the talent you have

shewn in arranging them encourages a well-founded hope

of much advantage to science being derived from your

arrangement and observations on them.

"We are all here delighted with the acquaintance of

Governor Raffles : he is certainly among the best informed

of men, and possesses a larger stock of useful talent than

any other individual of my acquaintance.

  I I" beg, Sir, that you will be assured that shall always

be ready and happy to give you every assistance in my

power, and that you will have no scruple in addressing

questions to me. Gentlemen who, like you, cultivate

science in the wilderness of nature, where books are not

to be found, have a right to call upon us inhabitants of

libraries for every assistance you stand in need of, which

we have the power of affording.

  I" beg, Sir, that you will believe me your obliged and

obedient servant,

                   " Joseph Banks."

                             to mr. marsden.

                                                    " Bencoolen, April 20, 1820.

   " As you may not possess a correct vocabulary in the

INias language, send you a few words ; and you may,
Iperhaps, be glad to learn that am at present directing

my attention a good deal to that Island.

118 IMPROVEMENT AT BENCOOLEN.

I" hope hereafter to give you a complete vocabulary, in

the Nias and Batta languages, of not less than three

thousand words. My object is to compare them particu

Ilarly with the Malay and Buggis.  shall follow the

same arrangement as adopted in the Appendix to my His

tory of Java, in order to render it more convenient for

reference.

"My small establishment in the interior at BukitKabut

has been of the greatest service in attracting traders and
settlers from the interior ; and were the affairs of Palem-

bang once settled to our satisfaction, the interior would
soon be as well known as the coast. There is a very good
horse-road from Marlborough to Muara Billiti, on the Pa-
lembang river, whence the passage by water to Palembang
can be accomplished in less than three days. Were

IPalembang free from the Dutch, should make it the

usual route between this place and Singapore.

  I" have the pleasure to send Mrs. Marsden three boxes

of spices, the produce of our own garden. We are now

*****commencing plantations in the interior."
                            to .
                                                           " Bencoolen, May 26, 1 820.
   " At Singapore our interests and influence are rapidly

I Iextending; all goes on just as could wish ; and think

that you will be happy to hear that even Bencoolen has

Iassumed a new interest in my eyes, and that really feel a

           IMPROVEMENT AT BENCOOLEN.    119

satisfaction in the progressive improvement in the place.
The last few months' leisure has enabled me to investi

gate the ancient tenure and history of the place and peo

ple, and the causes which have retarded the improvement
of both; and to apply remedies which are likely to be
effective. The old system may be now considered as de
stroyed, root and branch ; and although a few of the

*****decayed branches, and some noxious weeds may here and

there appear, the country has generally assumed a new
aspect, cultivation is quite the order of the day, and com

Imenced upon with a spirit hardly expected.
I" Under these circumstances  should be sorry if any

thing removed me from the place for the next year --and

it will certainly require attentive management for a few

years subsequent. The country and people are, in many

Irespects, so different from what found them, that a

stranger would hardly know them again. It sometimes

occurs to me as possible that Bencoolen may be given to

the Dutch, in exchange for some other place. Sooner

Ithan we should lose our footing in the Archipelago would

willingly resign it ; but, under any circumstances, it would

be heart-breaking to give up the place just as the fruits

of my system, and the returns for my labour, are about to

be seen."

           TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                              " Bencoolen, June 2, 1820.

I"It is almost an age since   heard from England.

sib Stamford's occupations.

Your last letters were dated nearly a twelvemonth ago !--
what a lapse !--and what may not have occurred in the

I Iinterim ? dread to think of it ; and yet, after all, be

lieve it is these cares and anxieties that are the chief source

of all our earthly bliss, for without them we could not

appreciate their reverse, or know what real happiness is.

I IHad not returned to India should never have contem
Iplated the delight which now anticipate of once more

meeting a long absent friend.  You see what a philoso

Ipher am.

"Nothing very particular has occurred since my last,

except the birth of another boy. My dear little Charlotte

Iis, of all creatures, the most angelic ever beheld. She

has those inborn graces which, as she expands, must

attract the admiration of every one --but she has a soft

Iheart, and is so full of mildness and gentleness, that fear

she will have many trials to go through in this unfeeling

world. Her brother Leopold, however, will take her part,

for he has the spirit of a lion, and is absolutely beautiful.

IBut will not tire you with any more family details, it

will be sufficient to add, that we are all well, and as happy

as absence from dear and relative friends will admit. My

life is at present rather monotonous, not however unplea

Isantly so, for have all the regular and substantial em

ployment of domestic comfort in the bosom of a happy

and thriving family ; and in the daily pursuits of agricul

Iture and magisterial duty find abundance to interest and

Iamuse. But am no longer striding from one side of

          sir Stamford's occupations.      121

India to another, overleaping mountains, or forming new

I Icountries -- am trying to do the best can with a very
Iold and nearly worn-out one, in which hope, by infusing

a new spirit, and encouraging habits of industry, and

Imotives of enterprise, much may be done.  am busily

engaged in taking a census of the population, and in

quiring into the processes of husbandry, and the village

Iinstitutions ; and think you would be amused to see me

amid my rude and untutored mountaineers, collecting the

details, and entering into all the particulars, as if they

Iwere the peasants of my own estate.  am becoming so

attached to these pursuits, and find them so much more

I Isatisfactory than political discussion, that believe shall

be sorry to change this mode of life. Allow me, there

fore, to indulge my whim for a short time longer, and then

*****I shall be able to carry home such a weight of experience,
as may perhaps bring all your barren lands into cultiva

IIftion.  am not rich enough to have a farm of my own,

I shall wish to become a farmer on your lands, and then--

**##**"This is a very hurried letter, written at a moment

when the ship is under weigh."
   Perhaps this was one of the most happy periods in Sir
Stamford's life. Politically, he had attained the object
which he felt so necessary for the good of his country (the
establishment of Singapore). He was beloved by all
those under his immediate control, who united in showing

 122 sir Stamford's domestic habits.

him every mark of respect and attachment, and many
were bound to him by ties of gratitude for offices of kind
ness, for private acts of benevolence and assistance which
he delighted to exercise towards them, The settlement,
 like many other small societies, was divided into almost as
many parties as there were families on his first arrival ;
but these differences were soon healed and quieted, and a
general interchange of good offices had succeeded. The
natives and Chiefs appreciated the interest which he took
in their improvement, and placed implicit reliance upon
his opinion and counsel.

    The consciousness of being beloved is a delightful, happy
feeling, and Sir Stamford acknowledged with thankfulness
at this time that every wish of his heart was gratified.
Uninterrupted health had prevailed in his family, his
children were his pride and delight, and they had already
imbibed from him those tastes it was his pleasure to culti
vate : this will not be wondered at, even at their early age,
when it is added, that two young tigers and a bear were
for some time in the children's apartments, under the
charge of their attendant, without being confined in cages,
and it was rather a curious scene to see the children, the
bear, the tigers, a blue mountain bird, and a favourite cat,
all playing together, the parrot's beak being the only
object of awe to all the party.

   Perhaps few people in a public station led so simple a
life ; his mode of passing his time in the country has been
already described. When he was in Bencoolen he rose

sir Stamford's domestic habits.  123

early and delighted in driving into the villages, inspecting
the plantations, and encouraging the industry of the
people; at nine a party assembled at breakfast, which
separated immediately afterwards; and he wrote, read,
studied natural history, chemistry, and geology, superin
tended the draftsmen, of whom he had constantly five or
six employed in a verandah, and always had his children
with him as he went from one pursuit to another, visiting
his beautiful and extensive aviary, as well as the extraor
dinary collection of animals which were always domesti

cated in the house. At four he dined, and seldom alone,

as he considered the settlement but as a family of which
he was the head ; immediately after dinner all the party
drove out, and the evening was spent in reading and
music and conversation. He never had any game of
amusement in his house. After the party had dispersed,
he was fond of walking out with the Editor, and enjoying
the delicious coolness of the night land-wind, and a moon
whose beauty those only who have been in tropical cli
mates can judge of, so clear and penetrating are its rays,
that many fear them as much as the glare of the sun.
Though scarcely a day passed without reptiles of all kinds
being brought in, and the Cobra de Capello in numbers,
the Editor never remembers these pleasures being inter
rupted by any alarm.

   Amidst these numerous sources of enjoyment, however,
Sir Stamford never forgot that the scene was too bright to
continue unclouded, and often gently warned the Editor

124          LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

not to expect to retain all the blessings God in his
bounty had heaped upon them at this time, but to feel
that such happiness once enjoyed ought to shed a bright
ray over the future, however dark and trying it might

become.

             TO MR. MARSDEN.

             " Bencoolen, June 27th, 1820.

   "As the notice given of the present opportunity of

Isending letters has been unexpected and short, am not
Iable to enter so fully as could wish into the affairs and

Iprospects of Bencoolen. This deficiency, however, shall

endeavour to supply by forwarding to you herewith copies

of my recent letters on the subject, together with the regu

I Ilations which have recently established. It will, am

Isure, afford you satisfaction to find that am at length

Ienabled to make a favourable report.  am very confi

dent of success, but all depends on a perseverance in the

plans commenced, and some liberality >on the part of

Government.

I" shall feel much indebted for your advice and opi

Inion on any points which may strike you.  am perfectly

Iopen to conviction wherever may have been wrong, and

shall not be offended with the freedom of your remarks.
   " The London arrived here on the 9th instant, and is

now taking in a cargo of pepper at Toppanooly. By her

I had the pleasure of receiving your letter of December.
IPray tell Mrs Marsden that will endeavour to make

sir Stamford's attention to natural history. 125

amends by sending her a volume of details on all family

Imatters the moment can obtain an hour's leisure : in

the mean time it will be satisfactory to her to know that
we are all well and happy. My three children, Charlotte,

Leopold, and Marco Polo, for so he is still called,
although he was christened Stamford Marsden, are cer

tainly the finest children that were ever seen ; and if we

can manage to take them home in about four or five
years, we hope to prove that the climate of Bencoolen is

not so very bad.

  I" As there was no chance of a direct opportunity,

have sent by the London duplicates, and even more com

plete sets of the quadrupeds and birds than those sent by

the Mary, numbered, named, and ticketed, so as to corre

spond with my catalogues.

  I" am at this moment superintending a complete set

of the drawings, to be forwarded by the present opportu

nity, via Calcutta.

  I" fear there will hardly be time for completing the

duplicates of the catalogue of birds. My writers are now

I
                    it,
                  I

                                                                                                    :

                                                                   it it
                                                                                by
engaged upon and will do my best to send                                                               the

present conveyance.

   " find the natives in the interior consider the Ungka

Puti as the Raja Binatang, on account of the extreme

lightness and celerity of his movements they say that in

the morning he swings from tree to tree, and runs along

the branches without shaking the dew from the leaves.

" From the reports received from Batavia,  would

126  EXERTIONS TO IMPROVE BENCOOLEN.

seem the Dutch hesitate with regard to another attack

Ion Palembang : in this think they are wise --they seem

to be in sad confusion, quarrelling among themselves, and

without confidence in any of their subjects. About a

fortnight ago they shot seven Frenchmen for deserting,

and attempting to go over to Palembang --it is not, how

ever, true that the Sultan has any foreign aid whatever.

Singapore continues to prosper more and more.
   " We are now busy in arranging the reptiles and crabs,

of which we have a very large collection."

     to .

                                         " Bencoolen, June nth, 1820.

I" You will find that am not at a loss for useful em

ployment and amusement at Bencoolen; it is a small
I I Iplace, but will make the most of it can.
                                               no more

Itrouble my head about the Dutch.  have turned farmer,

and as President of the Agricultural Society find more

real satisfaction than is to be derived from all the success

that could attend a political life. We are all quite well;

Sophia will write to this point."

                                       TO THE SAME.

                                              " Bencoolen, July 7th, 1820.
   " We are all quite well, and shall be very well content
to remain so. Singapore goes on progressively, and even

Bencoolen is assuming a new and interesting character.

My time and attention are at present devoted chiefly to

Iagricultural pursuits, and am determined, if possible, to

EXERTIONS TO IMPROVE BENCOOLEN.          127

Imake the place raise its own supplies.  am taking a

general census of the population of the country, and of

Iits agricultural resources ; and hope soon to send you

home some reports of interest and importance. The field

is not very extensive, but it is new and untried, and

energy and zeal shall not be wanting to make the most

of it.
   " Sophia and our three children are quite well ; Char

lotte and Leopold are everything we could wish, and the

Imost intelligent children ever met with, and young

Marco Polo promises well. Leopold is by far the finest

child of the three ; he is handsome, bold, and intelligent,

and struts about the house with an air of the most com

plete independence. We are all busy cultivating potatoes

Iand plucking nutmegs.  hear that the Government of

Batavia have declined sending the projected expedition

Ito Palembang this year, and think they are wise for so

doing: the Sultan holds out nobly. The Dutch still

Icomplain of me. God knows have shown them courtesy

enough on this coast, and since the fate of Padang has

Ibeen decided, have felt but little interest in any other

possession to the northward."

                                       TO THE SAME.

                                                  " Bencoolen, July 14th, 1820.
   " Since the establishment of the factory of Singapore,

I have bid adieu to all political responsibility. My time

has been exclusively devoted to the pursuits of natural

128 PERSKCUTION OF SIR STAMFORD.

history, and the immediate interests of Bencoolen, which

I am endeavouring to advance with all my might.

" Should Mr. Grant come into the chair, there is still a

Ihope that all may be right.  am not, however, very

sanguine, and shall be prepared for whatever ignorance,

injustice, or party-spirit may dictate.

  I" have lived long enough in the world to appreciate

what is valuable in it; and the favour of ministers or

courts never appeared to me equal to the conscientious

conviction of having done one's duty --even the loss of

I Ifortune, honours, or, might add, health.  have more

Isatisfaction in what have done since my return to India

Ithan with all my former endeavours ; and the more am

opposed, the more my views are thwarted, destroyed, and

Icounteracted, the firmer do stand in my own opinion :
I I Ifor am confident that am right, and that when ap

pear at home, even those who are most opposed to me

will be the first to acknowledge this. They do not, and

will not, look at the question in its fair and true light ;

and such appears to be the spirit of persecution, that it

Iwould be idle to oppose it at this distance.    shall,

therefore, bend with the blast, and endeavour to let the

hurricane blow over me : the more violent it becomes, the
sooner will it expend itself, and then it will be time for

me to raise my head, to show the injury and devastation

which has been spread abroad, and the folly of the course

which has been pursued.

   " The only mischief in this line of policy is this, that it

                DUTCH POLITICS.            129

will force me to become a more public and prominent

Icharacter than would wish. My ambition is to end my

*****days in domestic peace and comfort and literary leisure.

IA busy scene will oppose this, and though may become

Ia greater man, perhaps may not become a happier one.
" After all, it is not impossible the ministry may be

weak enough to abandon Singapore, and to sacrifice me,

honour, and the Eastern Archipelago, to the outrageous

Ipretensions of the Dutch. In this case, may be recalled

I Isooner than expect, perhaps immediately. This am

Iaware of, but  should be best contented with things

remaining even as they are for two or three years to come ;

I should then be better prepared for the contest ; for a

contest it must come to, sooner or later, and the longer

the adjustment of our differences with the Dutch, on a

broad and just footing, is delayed, the better must it be

for our interests.

  I" shall not fail to look forward, and to be prepared
Ifor this contest, come when it will ; and if cannot carry

my plans here, they must prevail in England eventually.

I" So much for politics and the Dutch.  shall now turn

to more pleasing, and, at the same time, more safe sub

Ijects for discussion--what am doing at Bencoolen, and

the state of our domestic circle.

   " In all your letters, you do not ask a question about

Bencoolen. Is it because it is too insignificant ? Here,

Iat any rate, am supported and upheld by the Bengal

VOL. II.                                K

130         EXPENSE OF SINGAPORE.

Government ; they have hitherto approved, uncondition

ally, of all my arrangements, and they have not been

Itrifling.  have had to upset everything, and have had

every possible difficulty to oppose in surmounting the

prejudices and abolishing the corruptions of a hundred

years' standing. The place is at last thriving, the remedy

applied has been efficient, the turn has been taken, and a

few years' perseverance will make this a new and prosper

Ious country --great it can never be.  must, however, be

prepared for an attack on the score of expense. The

Icharges of the settlement have, fear, rather been in

creased than otherwise, and this, with many, will tell

against it ; but it ought to be considered that we have

abolished all revenues, consequently have no receipts to

meet the charge--this was ordered by the Bengal Go
vernment --and that at the present moment we have a

double establishment, civil and military. All changes

and reforms are, besides, expensive ; and although all my

plans lead to real and practical economy, some liberality

in effecting them is indispensable in the nature of things.

I am endeavouring to cultivate the soil, and to civilize the
Ipeople ; and am happy to say that some progress is

making in both, notwithstanding the stubbornness with

which both have been charged. It is a poor place, and

much can never be made of it ; but as it now nearly com

prises my whole jurisdiction, and to act well our part, as

Ifar as our means extend, is all that is required, do not

deem its improvement unworthy my attention, It has

ARRIVAL OF MISSIONARIES.                      131

become a beautiful place ; the spice gardens are rapidly

Iincreasing ; and, as a place of retirement, hardly know
Ione which would prefer to it. It is now my place of
Iconfinement ; and as it is far superior to St. Helena,

ought not to complain. The Dutch wish me to be con

fined at Engano.
   " Sophia and my dear children enjoy excellent health

and spirits. We are now spending a few weeks in the

midst of groves of nutmegs, cloves, and mangosteens."
           ***#*

TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

" My dear Coosin,    " Bencoolen, July nth, 1820.

I" have now before me your letters of the 18th

December, delivered to me by Messrs. Burton and Evans,

who arrived here early in last month, and are both likely

to do well for themselves and the good cause in which

Ithey are embarked.  like them much, and they seem

Ifdisposed to meet all my wishes.  anything, they are

Irather above than below the standard would have fixed ;
Iand am fearful they are hardly prepared for the difficul

ties and privations of a missionary life in such a barbarous

country as this : they do not, however, appear to want

zeal ; they are scholars and gentlemen ; and their wives

are well calculated to aid their endeavours. Mr. Evans

and his wife remain at Bencoolen, where they purpose

Iopening a school on the 15th of next month.  have

                                   k2

132 CANNIBALS.

assisted them by placing the children of our free school
under their superintendence, and advancing them funds
to commence the undertaking. Mr. Burton proposes
fixing himself at Tappanooly or Natal, in the northern
part of Sumatra, with a view to the conversion of the

Battas and people of Pulo Nias. The field for his exer

Itions is new and interesting, and hope he will have

energy and courage enough to explore it. The world
knows so little of these people, and their habits and cus

toms are so peculiar, that all the information which he col
lects will be useful. You are of course aware that they are
cannibals. The population of the Batta country does not
fall short of a million ; and throughout the country it is
the invariable law not only that prisoners taken in war

should be eaten, but that capital punishment should also

be inflicted by eating the prisoners alive for the five great

crimes. You may rely on the fact, and that eating alive

Iis as common with them as hanging in England.  have

lately passed some part of my time in this part of the

Icountry, and can vouch for the correctness of what state.

The Island of Nias lies off the coast of Sumatra, nearly

opposite Natal, and contains a population of above a

hundred thousand souls : they have no religion whatever,

Iand am convinced that an active government and a

zealous missionary may do wonders among them.

  I" Of our progress at Bencoolen can now speak with

Imore confidence than when last wrote to you. The

native school has fully answered my expectation, and

IMPORTANCE OF SINGAPORE.               133

upwards of seventy children distinguished themselves at

Ithe last annual examination.  am now extending the

plan so as to include a school of industry, in which the

children will be instructed in the useful arts. The arrival

of the missionaries is most fortunate, and I hope they will

in time complete what we have so successfully begun --the

progress, however, must necessarily be slow.

  "I have lately made a very long stride towards the

general civilization of the country, by the establishment

of a property in the land, and the introduction of order

and regulation on the principles of a fixed and steady

Igovernment. You would am sure be gratified with the
Idetails had time to send them, but my health has not
Ibeen very good for some weeks, and dare not write much.

Hereafter you shall have all the particulars, and it is not

improbable some of them will find their way to the press.

IMy attention is chiefly directed to agriculture, and am

endeavouring to improve the grain produce of the country.

This is the basis of all national prosperity, and in countries

like Sumatra constitutes and comprises all that is impor

tant. We have an Agricultural Society, of which I am

President, in which we discuss, without restraint or reserve,

all questions concerning the produce of the land and the

condition of society. The latter is most peculiar, and not

to be explained in few words. You have probably read

IBowditch's Mission to Ashantee -- think I could give you

a picture as striking, novel, and interesting; but this

must be reserved for a future period.

               134 IMPORTANCE OF SINGAPORE.

   " My settlement (Singapore) continues to thrive most

Iwonderfully ; it is all and every thing could wish, and if

                      it,

                          I by I
                                  I
no untimely fate awaits promises to become the empo

rium and the pride of the East.      learn with much regret

the prejudice and malignity      which am attacked at

home, for the desperate struggle have maintained against
the Dutch. Instead of being supported by my own Govern

               ment, find them deserting me, and giving way in every
               instance to the unscrupulous and enormous assertions of

               the Dutch. All however safe so far, and matters are
I                     is                                   if
     ;I
                            I                                 I
             itonly allowed to remain as they are all will go well. The great

               blow has been struck, and though may personally suffer

               in the scuffle the nation must be benefited--and should

               not be surprised were the ministers to recall me, though      I

               should on many accounts regret at the present moment.it
                  " Were the value of Singapore properly appreciated,
                                                                             I

               am confident that all England would be in its favour          ;

                                                                                it

positively takes nothing from the Dutch and to us every    is

               thing  gives us the command of China and Japan, with

               Siam and Cambodia, Cochin China, &c. to say nothing of

               the Islands themselves. What you observe with regard to

               British cottons through this port to China      most im
                      I
                             I I is

                                                   a

                                                                          :

                                                           is
                                                                    a
                                                               it
portant question--the affair perfectly practicable and

nothing more easy.    had framed plan and am still

bent upon the object, but until know from England how

               am to be supported in what have so far done, would

be premature to suggest any speculation confirm Singa

pore, and establish my authority in the Archipelago on

IMPORTANCE OF SINGAPORE.     135

Ithe principle have suggested, and it will not be long

before there is abundant demand for this description of

our manufactures at least. Upwards of ten thousand tons

of raw cotton are annually sent to China from our terri
tories in India --why should we send our raw produce to

encourage the industry of a foreign nation, at the expense

Ifof our own manufactures ?  India cannot manufacture

sufficiently cheap, England can ; and it is idle to talk of

the cheapness of our goods unless we can bring them into
Ifair competition.
                    see no reason why China may not be

in a great measure clothed from England -- no people

study cheapness so much ; and if we can undersell them

we have only to find the way of introducing the article.

The monopoly of the East India Company in England,

and of the Hong merchants in China, precludes the idea

of anything like fair competition in our own ships, or at
the port of Canton --not but the East India Company can

and perhaps will assist as far as in them lies ; but their
ships are too expensive--the articles would also pass

through the Hong merchants before they reach the gene

ral trade and commerce ; and their intermediate profits

would form another barrier.

  " At Singapore, however, every object may be obtained.

Let the commercial interest for the present drop every
idea of a direct trade to China, and let them concentrate

their influence in supporting Singapore, and they will do

ten times better. As a free port, it is as much to them as

the possession of Macao ; and it is here their voyages

136 IMPORTANCE OF SINGAPORE.

should finish. The Chinese themselves coming to Singa

pore and purchasing, they have the means of importing

into the different ports of Canton, without the restraints

and peculations of the Hong merchants. Many of the

Chinese viceroys are themselves engaged clandestinely in

extensive trade ; and Singapore may, as a free port, thus

become the connecting link and grand entrepot between

Europe, Asia, and China ; it is, in fact, fast becoming so.

Vessels come from China to Singapore in five days. All

will, however, depend on its remaining under good govern

Iment, and the port being regulated on the principles

have laid down ; what these are, you may learn from * *,

who is fully apprised of all my views and plans. These

Ionce confirmed from home, shall lose no time in forward

ing musters of the cloths required, and the most detailed

information as to the extent and nature of the speculation.

I"You ask again respecting the Brata Yudha, and

Imust return you the same answer as before.  have as

Ilittle to do with Java now as you have ; and were to

communicate with any one on that Island, it would be

considered as treason : such is the hatred or dread which

the present rulers of that country feel towards me.

  I" God knows they treat me unjustly ; for although have

disputed and opposed their enormous designs in the Ar

Ichipelago generally, have never interfered with Java, or

any of their lawful possessions ; but their fears magnify
the danger." * * * *

                                              " Believe mc, &c."

LETTER TO MR. MURDOCH.                                        137

                                                 TO .

                                                  " Bencoolen, July 26th, 1820.

  I" have just received from Bengal some of your letters,

down to the 23rd of January : this last informs me of the
appointment of a deputation from Holland, and a com

mittee from the Court, to discuss all points respecting the

Eastern Islands.    This is as it should be, and augurs
well : it looks as  at last, the subject were about to be
                    if,

                                             I
                                                        I
taken up seriously and comprehensively.                   feel that

have done all and everything in my power to enable the

authorities at home to act with justice, advantage, and

decision.

   " From Bengal my accounts, as late as June, are favour

able. At Bencoolen have not been inactive all my

energies are now centered in this little spot, and am

improving rapidly much can never be made of it, but
it                                                        :
               it
                                                            I
                   ;I

                                                      is
may, and ought to be better. Agriculture what
                                                          is                                                                     I

most attend to, and no stone                              left unturned to ad

vance it.
   " Sophia and my dear children are all well and happy."

                    TO MR. THOMAS MURDOCH.

"My dear Sir,                 " Bencoolen, July 22, 1820.

" have been so bad a correspondent, that fear
it
   is

         I

                                                                                                                              :

                                                   I
too late to make apologies for my silence the truth

is, so few opportunities offer of writing direct to Europe,

and so many urgent calls always press on my time at the

138 ENDEAVOURS TO IMPROVE SUMATRA.

Imoment of a despatch, that am too apt to defer, sine die,

what may be put off till the morrow.

  I" You will, am sure, be happy to hear that we con

tinue in excellent health, and as yet unaffected by climate,

and other drawbacks. Lady Raffles looks better at pre

Isent than ever knew her, and my three children are every

thing that the fondest parent could wish. Charlotte and

Leopold (your god-son) are both running about, and are

as blessed in intelligence as disposition. Charlotte is all

mildness, Leo all boldness ; the youngest, who is usually

called Marco Polo, after his godfather, Marsden, bids fair

to follow in the same steps ; and we are as happy a family

as you can well conceive. One of Lady Raffles' brothers,

from the Bengal army, is now with us on a visit, and we

are daily expecting another to remain with us perma

nently. My sister and her little boy also form part of our

family at present.
   " Having, by the establishment of Singapore, done all

that rested with me for the protection of our interests in

Ithe Archipelago,  have long given over all discussions

with the Dutch authorities, and have now been for several

months enjoying the quiet of home ; so comfortable, in

deed, have we managed to make ourselves, that we shall

feel regret whenever the day comes that we are to leave

IBencoolen, whether for better or worse.  know not how

Iit is, but have latterly become so much attached to the

place, that it is daily becoming more interesting. The

Ichanges which have been able to work have been so

ENDEAVOURS TO IMPROVE SUMATRA.                   139

satisfactory, and the attachment of the people is so great,

Ithat have determined to make a strong effort for the

Iimprovement of the place. My early measures will,

fear, have hardly met the approval of our friend Marsden,

Ias the principles on which proceeded were different to
Ithose supported by him in his history ; but, think, were

he to see the different face which the country has since

put on, that he would be more inclined to admit their pro

priety. He reasons upon the state of the country before

the destructive effects which have followed since the abo

I Ilition of the Government ; put the state of things as

found them. However bad in principle the old system

Imay have been, am ready to admit that its effects were

good, when contrasted with those which ensued from the

introduction of what is generally considered to have been

a more pure system. The fact is, the country has gone

rapidly to ruin ever since it has been under the Bengal

Government, and that from the most obvious causes of

misgovernment and neglect : the affection of the people

has been alienated, and the contempt with which they have

Ibeen treated has produced its natural effects.  have had

the task of restoring confidence, and recovering the coun

try from a state of wildness and disorder into which it had

run, to one of agricultural industry and subordination ; the

task has been difficult, and in some respects hazardous : but

I have, at all events, carried the hearts of the people

along with me, and, in directing their energies into pro

I Iper channels, find enough to occupy and amuse me.

140 ENDEAVOURS TO IMPROVE SUMATRA.

have assumed a new character among them, that of lord
paramount : the Chiefs are my barons bold, and the
people their vassals. Under this constitution, and by the

Iestablishment of a right of property in the soil, am

enabled to do wonders, and if time is only given to perse

I Ivere in the same course for a few years, think shall be

able to lay the foundation of a new order of things on a
basis that shall not easily be shaken. My attention is, at
present, principally directed to agriculture : an agricul

Itural society has been established, of which am Presi

dent, in which we discuss, without reserve, all questions
which relate to the produce of the soil and the people who
cultivate it. Agriculture is every where the only solid
basis of national prosperity ; and in countries like
Sumatra, it constitutes and comprises nearly all that is

valuable and interesting.

   " We are very anxiously awaiting the decision of the

higher powers on the numerous questions referred to

them. It appears to me impossible that Singapore should

be given up, and yet the indecisive manner in which the
ministers express themselves, and the unjust and harsh
terms they use towards me, render it doubtful what course

they will adopt. If they do not appoint me to Penang, it

is probable that they will confine me to Bencoolen as a

place of punishment --banishment it certainly is : but if

Ieven here they will leave me alone, will make a paradise

 for myself.
     " Bencoolen is certainly the very worst selection that

ENDEAVOURS TO IMPROVE SUMATRA.  141

could have been made for a settlement ; it is completely
shut out of doors ; the soil is, comparatively with the
other Malay countries, inferior, the population scanty;
neighbourhood, or passing trade, it has none ; and, fur
ther, it wants a harbour, to say nothing of its long-reputed
unhealthiness, and the miserable state of ruin into which

it has latterly been allowed to run. Against all these

I Idrawbacks yet think something can be done, and am

attempting it : the greater the difficulties to be encoun

tered, and the greater the exertion required, the greater

Iis the satisfaction to be obtained. have never yet found

any which repressed my energies ; on the contrary, they
have always increased in proportion to the occasion.

  I" have found in the Sumatrans a very different people

to the inhabitants of Java : they are, perhaps, a thousand
years behind them in civilization, and, consequently, re

Iquire a very different kind of government. In Java

advocated the doctrine of the liberty of the subject, and

Ithe individual rights of man : here am the advocate for

despotism. The strong arm of power is necessary to
bring men together, and to concentrate them in societies ;
and there is a certain stage in which despotic authority
seems the only means of promoting civilization. Sumatra
is, in a great measure, peopled by innumerable petty
tribes, subject to no general government, having little or
no intercourse with each other, and man still remains in

active, sullen, and partaking of the gloom which pervades
the forests by which he is surrounded. No European

142 ENDEAVOURS TO IMPROVE SUMATRA.

power seems to think it worth its while to subdue the

country by conquest, the shortest and best way of civilizing
it ; and, therefore, all that can be done is, to raise the im

portance of the Chiefs, and to assist in promoting the
advance of feudal authority : this once established, and
government being once firmly introduced, let the people
be enlightened, and the energies which will be then called
forth in regaining a portion of their liberties, will be the
best pledge of their future character as a nation. At

present the people are as wandering in their habits as the
birds of the air, and until they are congregated and

organized under something like authority, nothing can be

Idone with them. have, fortunately, become very popular
Iamong them ; all classes seem persuaded that want to
Imake a country, and there is nothing which wish or sug

gest which they are not anxious to do : they have already
submitted to alterations and innovations which, in former

times, it would have been dangerous to mention ; and if
ever anything is to be made of them, this is the time for
the effort--the opportunity, neglected, will never recur.

  I I" fear have troubled you with a very dull discussion
Ion a very uninteresting subject, but am anxious to

Iprove to you that, however limited my field of action,

still contrive to find something within it worthy of my
attention. Bencoolen will never become a place of great
commercial or political importance, but it is the place

Iwhere, at present, can be most practically useful ; and,

instead of repining and resenting the slights and injuries

        LETTER TO THE DtIKE OF SOMERSET.  143

Iof the higher powers, shall, for the next few years, con

Itent myself, if fixed here, with leaving a garden where

have found a wilderness.

   " Lady Baffles unites with me in kindest regards to

IMrs. Murdoch, and all the members of your family.

need not tell you of the esteem in which we hold you, and

how often we anticipate the pleasure of once more meet

ing under the same roof, and in that same country where,

spite of all its faults, the best of enjoyments are to be

found.

I" Politically, have done all that could be expected

Iffrom me in this country.  the authorities at home still

demur, and are not only opposed to my plans but to my

Ipersonal interests, it is clear that can do no good to the

Icause here.  am at present bound and chained to Ben-

coolen, almost as closely as Napoleon is to Saint Helena.
               #* ***

  I" have now the satisfaction to state that Bencoolen

and Singapore together are not as expensive as Ben

coolen was before the change."

                            TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.

                                                " Bencoolen, August 20, 1820.

  I" The best excuse can offer for having allowed your

letters to remain so long without acknowledgment, is that

I have had nothing to communicate in reply, to justify
Ithe intrusion on your time and notice ; and have been

ashamed to dwell on the never-failing subject of self, after

*****144 I.ETTER TO THE DI KE OF SOMERSET.

troubling the Duchess with so many uninteresting details
on this particular.

  I" In the present alarming and important crisis, fear

the public attention will be too much occupied with affairs
nearer home, to trouble itself much with what is going on

Iin this part of the world ; and yet cannot help thinking

that more extensive views, and a more enlarged policy
with regard to the colonies, particularly in the East, would
tend greatly to remove some of the burdens by which
England seems to be at present overwhelmed.

                 · * * *#

   " It is not necessary for me to detail to your Grace the

dangers to which our commerce was exposed, or the dis
abilities under which it laboured previously to the occu
pation of Singapore. The Dutch, by reviving the prin
ciple on which their establishments in the East were
originally founded, and acting upon the same with the
increased power and means which their improved con
dition and rank among the nations of Europe gave them,
had nearly succeeded in bringing under their control every
native state within the Archipelago, and in excluding the
British Indian trader from every port eastward of the
Straits of Malacca and Sunda, while they secured to them
selves the commerce of those important passes through
which the trade to and from China must necessarily be

carried on. It is not a little remarkable, that the establish

ment of this system of exclusion on the part of the Dutch

LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.  145

was much facilitated by the improved local resources of
the colonies actually restored to them ; and that it is to
our having conquered and occupied Java, that they are
mainly indebted for the means of obstructing and destroy
ing our commerce ; for had not that event taken place, they
would not have had the pretext or the means of establish
ing anew an empire and system so diametrically opposed
to our commercial interests, and which the policy of our
Government, and the enterprise of our merchants, had
so successfully combated and destroyed in the preceding

century.

  I" The commerce, therefore, for which have been again
Icontending, and which have endeavoured to secure by

the occupation of Singapore, is no less important to us
than it is our legitimate right. Within its narrowest
limits, it embraces a fair participation in the general trade
of the Archipelago and Siam, and in a more extensive
view, is intimately connected with that of China and
Japan. We should not forget that it was to the Eastern
Islands that the attention of Europeans was first directed,
and that it was in these seas the contest for the commerce
of the East was carried on and decided ; that it was this

*****trade which contributed to the power and splendour of

Portugal, and at a later date raised Holland from insig
nificance and obscurity to power and rank among the
nations of Europe.
" Notwithstanding  the uncertainty which must prevail
VOL. II.
                                                                     L

146  LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.

pending the decision of the higher powers in Europe, and

the circumstances of its being still held solely on my per
sonal responsibility, against all the efforts of our own

government as well as that of the Dutch, the settlement

has advanced in the most rapid manner. From an insig

nificant fishing village, the port is now surrounded by an
extensive town, and the population does not fall short of

ten or twelve thousand souls, principally Chinese. The

number is daily increasing, and the trade of the place has

already induced the establishment of several mercantile

houses of respectability.

  I" Should the decision from home prove favourable,

hope to proceed there in the course of next year, for the

purpose of establishing such municipal and port regula

tions as may provide for the increasing population and

Itrade. Should it be otherwise, shall probably remain

Iquietly at Bencoolen, where  am not without employ

ment, and where, though the field will be less extensive,

and the immediate object somewhat different, there is

much to be done. Bencoolen being in a great measure

shut out from the general trade of the Eastern Islands,

and having no trade of its own, the first and main point

Ito be attended to is its agriculture ; and am now busily

engaged in clearing forests, draining morasses, and culti

vating the soil.

  I" hope the present year the grain produce will be in

creased at least two-fold, and go on in a geometrical pro

portion for many years to come, until we become an

LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.  147

exporting rather than an importing country, Every man
is obliged to cultivate sufficient grain for his own subsist

ence, either with his own hands or his proper funds ; and
1 have already had the satisfaction of seeing a large por
tion of the people turn from habits of idleness to those of
industry and activity. By establishing a right of property
in the soil, and giving the preference to the actual culti

vator, an extraordinary competition has been excited, and
my time is now engaged for many hours in the day in
settling boundaries and claims to land, which a year ago
may be said to have been without owner or claimant,

  I" But it is not to the grain cultivation alone that am
Idirecting my attention : am attempting to introduce the

cultivation and manufacture of sugar on the same prin
ciple as in the West Indies, and to extend the coffee,

pepper, and other plantations.

  I" find that a sugar- work may be established here at

less than one-sixth of the expense which must be incurred

at Jamaica ; that our soil is superior, our climate better,

 and, as we are neither troubled with hurricanes nor yellow

fever, that our advantages are almost beyond comparison

greater. For instance, in an estate calculated to afford

 two hundred or two hundred and fifty tons of sugar an

Jnually, the land alone would cost eight thousand or ten

 thousand pounds in amaica, while here it may be had for
 nothing. The negroes would there cost ten or twelve

 thousand pounds more, while here labourers may be ob
 tained on contract, or by the month, with a very moderate

                                                              i-2

148  LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.

 advance, at wages not higher than necessary for their sub
sistence. The other expenses of a West India plantation

 are estimated at ten thousand pounds more ; so that
before any return can be received, an outlay of at least
thirty thousand pounds must be made. Here about five
thousand pounds may be considered to cover every ex

pense, including thirteen hundred pounds for machinery

from England, and every outlay before the sugar is made.

A gentleman has come over from Jamaica, and is esta

blishing a very extensive plantation. He is now engaged
in planting the cane, and, in about a year hence, he will
commence his sugar. Water-mills, &c., have been applied

for from Liverpool, and if the undertaking should turn

I Iout favourably, as have no doubt it will, trust it will

not be long before his example is generally followed.
Coffee and other tropical productions may of course be

cultivated here with equal advantages ; and, considering

Ithe present state of capital and labour in England,

cannot help regretting that the public attention is not
turned to the advantages which might result from colo
nizing this part of Sumatra. Our advantages over the
West Indies are not only in soil, climate, and labour, but
also in constant markets. The West Indies always look
to the European market, and that alone : here we have
the India and China markets, besides an extensive local

demand. The only thing against us is the freight, which
is of course somewhat higher, on account of the greater

distance ; but if from the West Indies the planter could

LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.                  149

afford to send his sugar home at ten pounds per ton, war-

freight, he may surely pay five pounds per ton, peace-

freight, which is the present rate. In consequence of the

advantages of this island being unknown, many British

Jsubjects have established sugar and coffee plantations in
  ava, and are, in consequence, now enriching a foreign

colony by their labour and capital, while we are suffering

from the want of both.
   " The present regulations of the East India Company

are adverse to colonization ; but under the existing cir
Icumstances of the country,
                             should think that body

would not oppose any feasible plan which could be devised

for affording relief. The Eastern Islands are so differ

ently circumstanced to the continent of India, that the

principle which is considered to apply against colonization

in the latter, does not hold good in the former. It is

here by colonization, by European talents and Chinese

labour alone, that the resources of the country can be
brought forward, whereas in India the country is for the

most part cultivated to the highest pitch, and occupied

by an industrious race of inhabitants.           coloni

  I" much fear the expectations of advantageous

zation at the Cape will be disappointed. It is lending

poverty to feed on poverty ; and the most that can be ex
pected by the settlers, after a life of toil and misery, is a
bare subsistence. The climate, it is true, is more conge
nial to an European constitution, but this is all : in every

other respect we have the advantage, not only over the

150  LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.

Cape, but over the West Indies, America, New Holland,
or any other place that could be named --Java always
excepted. The climate is certainly warm and unfavour

I Iable to Europeans, but believe may safely affirm, that

it is the most pleasant, if not the most healthy within the

tropics. In the mountainous districts the heat is by no

Imeans great, and have already established a regular

supply of potatoes, which are extensively cultivated in the
interior district, and which previous to our arrival were
always imported. Wheat also grows, and Indian corn
may be cultivated with great advantage : our cattle may
easily be increased, and the breed improved ; and water-
carriage is to be found in almost every direction, in the

numerous rivers which descend from the central mountains

to the sea.
    " The principle, however, on which colonists settle here

must be very different to what it appears to be at the

Cape ; here nothing can be done without capital, every
thing with it. Capitalists in England must either send
out their relatives, or lend their money on mortgage to

some active and intelligent planter. Any young man
of steady habits and common sense, whose father cannot

obtain employment for him at home, but who can advance
him from four to five thousand pounds, may thus esta
blish himself, and create an estate of three or four thou

sand pounds a-year for his descendants. These principals
in the concern would require under-surveyors, coopers,
distillers, writers, &c., and each estate would give employ

LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.                  151

ment to several Europeans. The Chinese and natives

would be the manual labourers, as the negroes are in the

West Indies.
   " Politically, the colonization of that part of Sumatra

which belongs to the British Government would be very

important, as it would enable us to make a stand against

the Dutch encroachments. They are colonizing Java

very fast ; and, notwithstanding our power on the conti

nent of India, they might easily overrun and occupy, to

our exclusion, every possession between the Straits of

Sunda and China.

  I" have to apologize to your Grace for these hasty re

marks, but they are drawn forth by the regret that the

forty thousand paupers sent to the Cape had not, on a

different principle and more enlightened plan, found their

Iway here, where, independent of the advantages  have

already pointed out, they might have assisted in extend

ing our spice gardens, and dragging the golden ore from

our mines.
   " Whatever may be done towards paying off the national

debt, or reducing the interest, we must still have recourse

to extensive emigration, and the sooner we open our

Ifcolonies to the settler the better.  we delay too long,

much of the capital and industry will have found their

way into foreign countries, and, by assisting our rivals,

check our own speculations.
   " The West India merchants and proprietors might at

one time have inveighed against colonization in the East,

152             LETTER TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

Iand know they were decidedly opposed to the retention

of Java on this account: but the progress in Sumatra
will be slow, and the abolition of the slave trade has so

effectually destroyed their prospects, that they must neces
sarily retrograde, so that their opposition will be of less

weight. At all events, what is done in Sumatra will take

Inothing from them direct; and, as far as can judge,

they would find it more to their advantage to embark

themselves and their machinery, and change their resi
dence to the East. The superior advantages there would
soon repay the expenses of transport."

                TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

                                              " Bencoolen, August 27th, 1820.

" We are now thinking of delaying the publication of

the plants until a more general view of the natural history

of these Islands can be taken, and we think they might

form an advantageous appendix to a work which we pur

pose to entitle ' An Introduction to the Natural History

of the Eastern  Islands    '  the  frame-work  of which  has  been
                         ;

completed, but which will require perhaps a year or two

for the details.

  I" have just been closing a large consignment of sub

jects in spirits and skeletons.
   "You will have learned that the cassowary is not a

native of Java ; it is not found west of the Moluccas, and

Iin them  believe is confined exclusively to one of the

large Islands, either Halhambipa or Ceram, I forget which.

LAKES IN SUMATRA.                                  153

  I I" have written to you so fully lately, that am not
Iaware that have anything of moment left to communi

cate, except the discovery of the lake in the Lampung

country, at the back of Croee, which has been visited and
examined in the last four months. The length of the lake

is about twelve miles, the breadth eight ; the population

is thin upon its banks, and but few boats. None of these

carry sails : the people have a superstitious aversion to

hoisting them, under an apprehension that the sails will

invite the wind, xipset the boat, or, in other words, that

they will raise the devil by it.

  I" have made a sketch of the shape and position of this

lake, and have sent another party with compasses, &c, to

correct our former observations, and also to collect mine

rals in its vicinity, and the best information attainable of

the country beyond it.

  I" have had an opportunity of examining the third

lake, namely, that of Korintki.

" The only important lake not yet ascertained is that

Iof Toba, in the Batta country. The moment can well

Ileave Marlborough,  purpose making an incursion into

the Batta country to ascertain this and many other inte

I Iresting points, and if am not eaten on the journey

Ihave no doubt the results will repay the labour.  am at

present confined to Marlborough, on account of the posi

tive orders of the Court of Directors, who would seem in

clined to limit my perambulations as much as possible, lest

they should excite the jealousy of our friendly allies the

154 LAKES IN SUMATRA.

Dutch : but for this, you should long before this time have

had an account of the sources of most of the principal

Irivers.  do not think the source of the Siak river

can be correctly laid down, and with respect to the Tulang

IBawang river am still more puzzled, and am much in

want of scientific and even practical assistance.

  I" have applied to the Bengal government respecting

the want of surveys on this coast above Tappanooly, and

I hope that authority will be inclined to attend to the
Isubject. In the mean time am collecting all the infor
Imation can.

  I" am at present deeply engaged in the details of Ben-

coolen, taking statistical accounts of our population, &c.

I propose printing them, as the only means of securing the

safety of the record, and turning the public attention of

the place to the further prosecution of similar inquiries

hereafter. They will furnish excellent data a hundred

years hence to judge of the advance or decline of the

Iplace. Our first agricultural report is finished, and

think you will not only admit the facts, but concur in the

reasoning.
   " Lady Raffles and the children continue to enjoy excel

lent health. She desires to be most kindly remembered
Ito Mrs. Marsden.
                   am obliged to insist on her avoiding

writing. Your godson is now three months old, and does

credit to Bencoolen.

  I I" fear shall have often been very tedious in my re
Ipetitions : the fact is, that have always so much public

       POPULATION OF SUMATRA.    155

business in hand on the departure of a ship, and the

Inotice is generally so short, that have no time to write
Ia connected letter, or keep copies of what do write.

   " The population of the Batta country far surpasses my

expectation ; it can hardly be less than a million and a

half.

*****" The progress of the Padries, as they are called, has
been surprising, and the countries they have ravaged will

Iexcite your astonishment.       am collecting details for a

full account of their progress.

   " The spice plantations have done wonders.
   " The statistical returns confirm your opinion of the in-

fecundity of the people, as they show an uncommon dearth

of children ; but they, at the same time, attest the healthi

ness of the country by the very small number of deaths.

  I" have not been very well lately, and am rather ap
Iprehensive am not doomed to last much longer in a

tropical climate. Unless, therefore, the public authorities

Iat home turn a more favourable eye towards me, shall

think of returning at the close of my five years.
          *****

  I" am afraid, my dear Sir, you will long ere this have

Ibeen tired with this old and long story ; at all events,

hope you will consider it an earnest of my desire to prove

Ito you that am not inattentive to the real interests of

the place entrusted to my immediate charge.
   " Lady Raffles and my dear children continue to enjoy

156 EXERTIONS TO CIVILIZE THE SUMATRANS.

excellent health. Marco Polo thrives apace, and is every
thing you could wish."

   The spice gardens, of which there were now many in
the neighbourhood of Bencoolen, added greatly to its
interest and beauty; Sir Stamford's residence in the
country was twelve miles from the town, and though on
first making the attempt to persuade people to live out of
the settlement, no servant could ever be induced to ven

ture three miles after sunset, at this time (1823) there
were various country-houses on the road to Permattam
Ballam, (his country-house,) all of them surrounded by
plantations. The clove trees as an avenue to a residence
are perhaps unrivalled ; their noble height, the beauty of
their form, the luxuriance of their foliage, and, above all,
the spicy fragrance with which they perfume the air, pro
duce, in driving through a long line of them, a degree of
exquisite pleasure only to be enjoyed in the clear light
atmosphere of these latitudes.

" Bencoolen, September 13rd, 1820.

I" am doing more good here and at Singapore, at

INattal Tappanooly, and Nias.  am making a country

I Iand a garden out of a wilderness, and trust am laying

the foundation of the future civilization of Sumatra : the

Iindependence of the Eastern commerce  have already

established. My letters from Bengal say that all my

plans are lauded at home, but others are larded for them,

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  157

Iand that it is feared must limit my recompense to the

gratifying sense of my public services. My friends say,
' Do not, however, allow any penury in your superiors to

damp your zeal ; for you can at all times show to whose

intelligence we are indebted for the civilization and inde

pendence of the Eastern countries.' Are they right ?
   " My attention is at this moment directed to the Island

of Nias, lying off Nattal, a little to the north of Padang :
it contains a population of from one to two hundred thou

sand active, intelligent, and industrious people, and is the

granary of this coast. The people are heathens, and in

Igreat want of civilization and improvement, and contem

plate a fine field for philanthropic exertions.

  I" Sophia will write you all domestic news. For myself
I Ido not feel my health so good as it was, and fear cannot

at the outside remain with any comfort above a year or

Itwo longer in India : therefore think you will see us in

1823 or 1824 at farthest."

                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                     " Bencoolen, October 9th, 1820.

   " We are still remaining very quietly at Bencoolen, and

I fear the detail of an agricultural life, which mine is at

present, is too monotonous to afford many incidents to

Iinterest you at such a distance, were to attempt any

description of my present occupations. After having

drawn together all the wild animals of the forests, and

Icollected the rich plants of the mountains, am now en

158        LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OK SOMERSET.

deavouring to tame the one and cultivate the other, and

have undertaken the arduous task of converting a wilder

Iness into a garden.  have established a law, that every

man shall sow grain enough for the consumption of him

Iself and family.  am making new roads and water

courses, regulating the police of my villages, abolishing

*****slavery and bond-service, forcing the idle to be industri

ous and the rogues to be honest. But all this would not
be half so interesting in description as a Batta feast, or
the discovery of some new and wild race.
I I" In my last letter intimated to your Grace that am

now turning my thoughts homewards; one-half of my

period of banishment has certainly passed over, and in

1823, or the beginning of 1824, you will certainly see us.

I know of nothing that would induce me to remain longer.

IMy health, am sorry to say, is not so good as it was.

I feel the effects of climate very seriously, and on this
I Iaccount, if had no other inducement,
                                         should hasten

Ihome. In a public point of view, all wish is, to remain

long enough to see my settlement at Singapore firmly

established, and lay something like a substantial founda

tion for the future civilization of Sumatra : two or three

Iyears will be sufficient for this, and then shall have an

object at home in endeavouring to uphold and further

what will have been so far proceeded on. My great

object, the independence of the Eastern Islands, has been

attained.

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.  159

   " Lady Raffles and my dear children continue to enjoy
excellent health. Leopold is the wonder of all who see
him. Charlotte speaks English very distinctly, and finds
no difficulty in Malay and Hindostanee, and it is curious
to observe how she selects her language to the different
natives. To us or her nurse she always speaks English :

to a Malay she is fluent in his language, and in an instant

begins Hindostanee to a Bengalee : if she is sent with a

message, she translates it at once into the language of the
servant she meets with. She is only two years and a half
old ; such is the tact of children for acquiring languages.
She always dines with us when we are alone, and the cloth
is no sooner removed, than in bounces Master Leopold,
singing and laughing, and occupying his place. Mr. Silvio,

Ithe Siamang, is then introduced, and am often accused

of paying more attention to the monkey than the children.
This last gentleman is so great a favourite, and in such

Ihigh spirits, that hope to take him to England with the

family, and introduce him to my little friend Anna Maria."

                                    TO MR. MARSDEN.
                                                 " Bencoolen, October 9, 1820.

  I" have now the pleasure to send you the third paper

on our Malayan plants. These are only to be considered

notices made at the moment, where we have not the ad
vantage of reference to late publications, or communica
tion with scientific friends. The paper contains an
account of the nepenthes, sago, camphor, several new

160  LETTER TO THOMAS MURDOCH, ESQ.

mangifera, many ligna vitse, the melastomas, &c. You

will recognize many of your old friends, particularly the

kayu gadis, or virgin tree.
   " Under Styphelia you will find an interesting observa

tion respecting Singapore. We have not half gathered

the rich harvest which surrounds our settlement, but

I think you will give me credit for what has been done.
I am now expecting an abundant supply of new matter

from Pulo Nias and the northern parts of Sumatra ; and

I hope, in the course of next year, again to visit Singapore,

and pick up something on the Eastern coast in addition

to our present botanical stores."

     TO THOMAS MURDOCH, ESQ.

                           " Bencoolen, October 9, 1820.

" As my letter of July 22d was written at a time when
I Iwas very much hurried,
                           am anxious to correct any
Ihasty expression may have used, and to explain more

fully my reasons for now becoming so strong an advocate
for despotic authority. There appear to be certain stages

and gradations through which society must run its course

to civilization, and which can no more be overleaped or

omitted, than men can arrive at maturity without passing
through the gradations of infancy and youth. Indepen
dence is the characteristic of the savage state ; but while
men continue disinterested, and with little mutual depen
dence on each other, they can never become civilized.

   " The acquisition of power is necessary to unite them

          PROGRESS OF CIVILIZATION.     16i

and to organize society, and it would perhaps be difficult

to instance a nation which has risen from barbarism

without having been subjected to despotic authority in some

shape or other. The most rapid advances have probably

been made, when great power has fallen into enlightened

and able hands ; in such circumstances nations become

wealthy and powerful, refinement and knowledge are

diffused, and the seeds of internal freedom are sown in

due time, to rise and set limits to that power whenever it

may engender abuse. Freedom thus founded on know

ledge and a consideration of reciprocal rights, is the only

species that deserves the name, and it would be folly to

conceive the careless independence of the savage as
deserving of equal respect. In order to render an uncivil

ized people capable of enjoying true liberty, they must

first feel the weight of authority, and must become
acquainted with the mutual relations of society.

"Whether the power to which they bow be the des

potism of force, or the despotism of superior intellect, it

is a step in their progress which cannot be passed over.

Knowledge is power, and in the intercourse between

enlightened and ignorant nations, the former must and

will be the rulers. Instead, therefore, out of an affected

respect for the customs of savages, of abstaining from all

interference, and endeavouring to perpetuate the institu

tions of barbarism, ought it not rather to be our study

to direct to the advancement and improvement of the

VOL. II.                             M

162  PROGRESS OF CIVILIZATION.

people, that power and influence with which our situa
tion and character necessarily invests us ?

   " Power we do and have possessed ; we have employed
it in the most arbitrary of all modes, in the exaction of
forced services and in the monopoly of the produce of the

country. While, as if in mockery, we have professed to

exercise no interference with the native administration of

the country, we have made ourselves the task-masters of
the people, and with a false humility have refused to be
their governors. Ought we not to discard this empty
pretence ? The people are now living without a head to
direct them, for we have destroyed the power of the native
Chiefs ; both reason and humanity would urge us to take
the management into our own hands, and to repair the
mischief of an hundred years, by affording them a regular
and organised government. Instead of compelling their
services for our own commercial monopoly, while we leave
them in their original ignorance and barbarism, and by
reducing them to the condition of slaves, shut the door of
improvement against them, ought we not to endeavour to
direct their industry to objects beneficial to themselves,
and by securing to them the benefits of their labour, raise
them by degrees in the scale of civilization ?

   "The case of Bencoolen is altogether different from
what it was in Java at the time of our occupation of

arising entirely from the comparatively higher state of
civilization to which the inhabitants of that Island had
attained and even then, in some of the mountainous
     :

                                                                                            it,

PROGRESS OF CIVILIZATION.  163

and less civilized districts, it was questionable whether the

period had yet arrived when the people were competent

to advance by their own unaided efforts, and they were

therefore still left in some measure under the immediate

sway of their Chiefs. By far the larger portion of the

inhabitants of Java had already passed that stage, and

were thereby prepared for entering on the enjoyment of

a higher and improved condition.

  I" have troubled you with the above observations, that
Iyou may be prepared for the arguments in which found

my assumption of sovereign power. Tyrants seldom want

Ian excuse, and in becoming a despot, am desirous to
Igive you mine. Hereafter, when have an opportunity

of explaining to you more fully the real state of the coun

Itry, shall easily convince you that my premises are cor
Irect. Our friend Marsden will, think, admit at once
Ithat they are so ; but the course am pursuing is so

opposite to his notions, as expressed in his History, that

I despair of carrying him along with me without a strug

Igle. know he is kind enough to place great confidence
Iin me, and to be fully satisfied with my motives ; but

fear that he looks upon some of my plans as visionary and

Ispeculative. They may be so, and am willing to admit
Ithat they are not without the latter quality, but cannot

be one of your tacit spectators of barbarism. It is well to
say, let things remain as they are --they have gone on well

enough heretofore, why introduce new speculations of

improvement while the people are content ? This might

                                                                                 m2

164 CONDITIONS OF JAVA AND SUMATRA.

perhaps have been said, if not acted upon, if the thing

had been possible. Some few years since, in England,
when the people were in the enjoyment of more substantial
happiness than recent reforms, or attempts to introduce
them, are likely to prove, England may have been said,

if not to have reached the summit, at all events, to have

attained an eminence above all other nations ; and, in all

further attempts, we were necessarily without the aid of
experience. But can this be said of Sumatra, or more
particularly of Bencoolen, where the people are at least a
thousand years behind their neighbours the Javanese?
Surely not.

  If" you would know the extent of my speculations, I

would beg you to contrast the present conditions of Java
and Sumatra. From the hand of God, Sumatra has per
haps received higher advantages and capabilities than
Java, but no two countries form a more decided contrast
in the use which has been made of them by man. While
Sumatra remains in a great part covered with its primeval
forests, and exhibiting but scattered traces of human in
dustry, Java has become the granary and the garden of
the East. In the former, we find man inactive, sullen,
and partaking of the gloom of the forests ; while in the
latter he is active and cheerful. They are considered to
have sprung from the same general stock, and the Strait
which separates them is not twenty miles across. How
are we to account for the difference ?

  I" It is not likely that shall give the Dutch credit for

CAPABILITIES OF SUMATRA.                       165

having had much share in the improvement of Java, but

they are not without some claims in this respect. We

Imust seek the causes elsewhere.  shall not now attempt

Ito enter into them, but wish much to remove the idea

that Sumatra is by nature less fertile than Java. Wretched

Ias our west coast districts may be, can affirm that the

soil of the interior is for the most part rich and produc
tive. No country is better watered; its navigable rivers

afford a striking contrast to the want of them in Java ; the

population cannot well fall short of three millions, and in

some parts agriculture is equally advanced with Java. We

have, unfortunately, selected the very worst spots, and

adopted the very worst system of government -- and to
Ithis alone should be attributed our failure.
                                               ask no

more than a carte blanche for five years to make Sumatra

more important --more valuable to England than even

Java would have been.

  "By opening the communication between Bencoolen

and Palembang, the grand navigable river of the latter

place would be the outlet for all the rich produce of the

interior, including the spices of Bencoolen. The Jambi,

Siak, and other rivers to the northward would again be

opened as the great channels of trade, while our stations

Ion the west coast, which would still maintain, would be

our military posts, whence all the rivers and all the inte

Irior of the country would be commanded.  would open

a high road along the centre of the Island, from one end

to the other, and the rivers should be my transverse path

166 CAPABILITIES OF SUMATRA.

Iways.  would assume supremacy without interfering
Iwith the just independence of other states.
                                              would be

Ithe protector of the native states.   would, in fact, re

establish the ancient authority of Menangkabu, and be

Ithe great Mogul of the Island.        would, without much

expense, afford employment for twenty or thirty thousand

IEnglish colonists, and would soon give employment to

as much British tonnage, and as many British seamen as

are now engaged in the West India trade.

  I I" In short, what would not, and indeed what could not

Ido, were free to act, and encouraged rather than abused ?

  I" This, am willing to admit, is all very speculative,
Iand am sorry to be obliged to add also very visionary,

for there is no chance of my ever attempting anything of

Ithe kind --the time has gone by when had the spirit for
Iit. have met with so much injustice and ill-usage on

the part of the authorities at home, that the charm is

Igone, my confidence is lost, and only think of these

changes as what might have been, had circumstances been

more favourable.

  I" am now confining myself strictly to our own petty
Istates on the coast, and surely what am doing in them
Iis rather practical than speculative. What am doing

will not only benefit these districts immediately, but may

enable some subsequent authority, less harassed by an

unconfiding government at home, to enlarge the sphere

Ifor the extension of British principles : shall be content

with what is immediate and practical.

CAPABILITIES OF SUMATRA.                                                     167

I I" am afraid, after all, that shall have failed to prove

Ito you, that, in advocating despotism, am the true and
If Isteady friend of national freedom.
                                 so, must rely on

it I                                                                         on
                  I
                      I

                                          it

                                                         a

                                II
                                                                                                              ;
                                                                   if if,
                                                                                                                                                              :
your friendship to be satisfied with my assertion ;

the contrary, you admit my arguments, pray enforce them
with Mr. Marsden, as would rather have his concurrence

than the first authority the British legislature could give

he will not approve without being convinced but he

still thinks me speculative,  may be sufficient to say that

have relinquished the only speculation which deserved

the name of one, and am now plain practical man.

   " Pray make our united regards, &c.
   " To prove to you that when assume and advocate

dospotic authority, do not forget that men have rights,

may be sufficient to observe that have abolished the

whole system of slaves and slave-debtors, so intimately

interwoven with what are called the native institutions of

the country that time has been fixed at which the con
;

            a

              I
                                                                          ;
dition of actual slavery shall cease to exist and that for

the system of slave-debtors, have substituted one of free

contract, and this with the full and hearty concurrence of

the native Chiefs and the European population."

                                  to.
                                                 " Bencoolen, October 27, 1820.

   " The enclosed letters are to convey most melancholy
tidings.

168 DEATH OF MR. HULL.

   " The affliction they announce is a most severe one ; we
have lost poor Robert Hull, and now mourn his death in
all the agony of grief and wretchedness. He died on the
24th instant, after a severe illness of five days, which he
bore with exemplary fortitude and resignation. The im
mediate cause of his death was inflammation of the

bowels; but he never recovered from the illness occa

sioned by the fatigue and exposure of the last campaign,
and on account of which he was absent from his station.
Poor Sophia and Nilson attended him day and night
during his illness and last moments, and have suffered a
severe shock; but the first and most violent effects are

Inow subsiding, and hope in a short time they will gain

strength and spirits by quiet and resignation.
   " Everything here is going on very quietly, the place

manifestly improving fast, and a spirit of industry and
activity beginning to supersede the dull lethargic torpor

which so lately prevailed.

   " The attention of every one is directed to agriculture,

Iand find my little experience in Java of some import

ance in directing the labours of the people of this coast,
who have still so much to learn from their neighbours."

                CHAPTER XVII.

Sir Stamford forms an establishment on the Island of Nias for the
   suppression of slavery -- Sufficient spices raised at Bencoolen for
   the supply of Great Britain --Description of the Island of Nias --
   Its population, exports, slaves-- Period of proposed return to
   England--Poggie Islands-- Description of the people --Death of
   Sir Stamford's eldest boy -- Death of Captain Auber-- Missionaries
   engaged in printing Malay Bible -- Illness of another child-- In
   tended publication on commercial prospects --Deaths of two chil
   dren -- Youngest child sent to England --Retired life --Expectation
   of Mr. Canning as Governor-General --Sir Stamford 's opinion of
   the state of England-- Arrival of a parly for the measurement of
   the pendulum at the Equator -- Death of Dr. Jack -- Voyage to

    Singapore.

The suppression of slavery was never lost sight of by Sir
Stamford Raffles ; it was connected with all his views,
political or commercial ; and when he found it prevailed
to a serious extent in an island (Pulo Nias) in the imme
diate neighbourhood of the British power, he was anxious

to make some effort to relieve the inhabitants from this
oppression ; and as the English Resident at Tappanooly
and Nattal had always maintained a small establishment
in the island, it appeared an object of easy attainment.
The following letters contain references to this sub
ject .--

170 DEATH OF SIR JOSEPH BANKS.

TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                 " Bencoolen, June 22, 1821.

" We have an ugly report by the way of Batavia, that

Ipoor Sir Joseph Banks is no more !  fear it is too true,

as by our last accounts he appeared nearly exhausted. It

Iwas an event for which ought to have been prepared ;

but, notwithstanding this, his death has been a severe

shock to me, as it must have been to all who knew him,

and could appreciate his inestimable value. When shall

we meet his like again, and by whom will his place be
supplied ? He has left a sad blank. To fill his place as

*****he filled it is impossible. A successor, however, must be

appointed ; and if talents, fortune, and entire devotion to

the object cannot be found united in one individual, rank

must supply the deficiency.
I" am very much afraid that the death of Sir Joseph

will go far to break the heart of the Society. Many of

Ithe old and sterling members will, am sure, feel the loss

most deeply, and want heart to attend the future meet

ings. Much, however, nay everything, will depend on the

character of the new President.

I" have a long account to send your Grace of my dis

I Icoveries in Pulo Nias.
believe formerly told you that

I was engaged in some arrangements for bringing that
Iisland under British authority.
                                  am now happy to say

Ithat have succeeded ; the people have unreservedly be

come the subjects of Great Britain. As this is an island

DESCRIPTION OF PULO MAS.        171

Ialmost unknown, and may at least claim the merit of

first visiting and exploring its interior, some particulars

Imay not be uninteresting, though have not time to say

many words on them at present.

" The island is in sight of Sumatra, and seen by most

Iships passing.  find the population to exceed 230,000

souls, on a surface of about 1500 square miles, which

gives a population of about 153 to the square mile ; the

country most highly cultivated, the soil rich, and the

Ipeople the finest people, without exception, that have yet

met with in the East. They are fair, and a strong, athletic,

active race ; industrious, ingenious, and intelligent, and

forming a striking contrast to their neighbours on the
opposite coast of Sumatra. What has most astonished
me is, the high degree (comparatively) of civilization to

which they have attained, without communication from
without. We have no trace, no idea whence or how the

island became peopled ; the people themselves say, a man

and woman were first sent from heaven, from whom they
are all descended. Their language, their habits, their

character, and institutions, are strikingly different from

all others with which we are acquainted. Hinduism never

found its way to their shores, and only a few Mahomedans,
traders, are here and there to be found on the coast, but

the religion itself has made no way.
   " They dwell in excellent and commodious houses, the

interior of which are laid out with neatness, not devoid of

elegance; streets are regularly formed and paved, with

172     SPICES RAISED AT BENCOOLEN.

avenues of trees, and stone stairs to the pinnacles of the
different hills, on which their villages are mostly situated,
embosomed in the richest foliage imaginable. The slopes
of the hills and the valleys are covered with one continued
sheet of the richest cultivation, and there is not a forest

tree standing in the island ; all have disappeared before
the force of industry. To each village are attached stone

baths, appropriated to the different sexes, which remind
us of Roman luxuries. They wear a profusion of gold

and other ornaments, than which nothing can be con

Iceived more original.  have a large collection now

Ibefore me, and only wish could at once transfer them to

Park Lane.
   " We have discovered an excellent harbour, and made

two military stations merely on account of the flag ; and

Ihereafter hope to have much satisfactory employment.
  I" am at this moment called away on particular busi

ness."

        TO .

I I" believe may now affirm with safety, that Bencoolen

alone will be able to supply Great Britain with all the

spices she requires. You may judge of the interest of
Ithis kind of cultivation, when
                                 inform you that the

annual clear produce or profit of an acre of nutmeg-trees

is not less than ten pounds sterling, and that we are

covering the whole land with our parks of them. No

thing can be more beautiful than an avenue of clove

SLAVE-TRADE AT PULO NIAS.  173

trees ; the luxuriant foliage and the fragrance of the air
make it charming.

*****" My attention has been drawn to the Island of Nias.

which is situated opposite the settlement of Tappanooly
and Nattal, and on which the Resident has always main

tained a small establishment.
  It" is quite unnecessary for me to enlarge on the result

of the mission, from which we learnt that the population
consisted of not less than 230,000 souls ; that the state

of cultivation was such as to furnish an export of 12,000
bags of rice annually ; and that the number of slaves
taken from Nias in each year exceeded 1500 !

   " The circumstances that attended the latter inhuman

traffic were of the most appalling nature, and no less re

volting than those which attached to the same abominable
commerce on the coast of Africa.

   " The unhappy victims, torn by violence from their

friends and country, are delivered, pinioned hand and
foot, to the dealers in human flesh, and kept bound

during the whole course of the voyage. Instances have
occurred, where the captives have seized a moment of

*****liberty to snatch up the first weapon within their reach,

stab all whom they encountered, and concluded the scene
by leaping overboard, and seeking deliverance from their
persecutors in a watery grave !"
Frequent appeals made from the Chiefs of Pulo Nias,

174  CAUSES OF THE COMMISSION TO PULO NIAS.

and the peculiar connexion which had always subsisted

between that Island and the districts in the west of Suma
tra, induced Sir Stamford to appoint Mr. Prince and Dr.
Jack to inquire into the real circumstances of the case, in
the hope of adjusting existing differences, and providing
for the immediate tranquillity of the country, and at the

same time to collect such information as would enable

the higher authorities to decide on the future course

proper to be pursued. It Was impossible to witness the

constant scenes of rapine and plunder, to which the coast
of the Island had so long been a prey, from the inroads
of pirates and slave dealers, after the express injunctions
of the legislature, and the principle so universally de

clared to actuate the civilized nations of the world. It

was notorious that Pulo Nias, although for a long period
of years nominally enjoying the protection of the English
flag, was still the most abundant, and almost the only
source of the supply of slaves on the coast, and that not

withstanding the prohibition against importation at Ben-
coolen and elsewhere, it was impossible to prevent it

entirely. It was also well known that Pulo Nias was the

principal resort of the French cruisers for refreshment and
refitment, and whence they commanded the whole coast
of Sumatra during many periods of the late war. An un
disputed supremacy of the Island was important in a
political point of view, as it may be considered to com
plete the command of the coast from Acheen to Nattal.
Another subject for consideration was the probability of

DESCRIPTION OF PULO MAS.  175

the natives being easily converted to the Christian reli

gion, and that if the favourable opportunity were neg

lected, they would be likely to fall into all the supersti
tions of the Mahomedans.

   The following is from an account of this Island fur
nished to Sir Stamford Raffles by Dr. Jack and Mr.
Prince.

   " Pulo Nias is situated under the first degree of north
latitude, and runs in a north-west and south-east direc

tion, throughout 5° of latitude and 48° of longitude.
The villages are mostly situated on the very pinnacle of
the hills, yet they are always embosomed in cocoa-nut
and fruit trees of the greatest luxuriance, while the land
beneath them is devoted to rice, sweet potatoes, and other
articles of supply.

   " The cultivation of rice is carried on both in sawahs
and ladangs, according to the nature of the ground, the
latter prevailing in the more hilly parts, and the former
along the course of the principal rivers. The returns

from sawahs are stated to be above a hundred-fold ; from

ladangs the returns are about forty-fold ; and such is the
singular fertility of the soil, that they are again fit for
clearing in from five to ten years. The greater part of
the rice is raised for exportation, the inhabitants raising
but little for themselves, and preferring sweet potatoes,

yams, plantains, Sec, for their own consumption. They
breed great numbers of fowls and hogs, which are chiefly
fed on cocoa-nuts ; cattle and buffaloes are not indigenous,

176  DESCRIPTION OF PULO NIAS.

 but have been introduced at some of the Malay settle
 ments ; cocoa-nut trees abound along all the shores ;
 pepper has only lately become an article of cultivation
 among the Achenese settlers, but it promises to extend
 rapidly : samples of coffee appear also of very good quality.

     " The principal exports of Pulo Nias (exclusive of
 slaves) are, rice to the extent of about 12,000 bags per
 annum ; oil, about 7000 or 8000 bamboos ; cocoa-nuts in

 great quantities ; pepper at present about 800 peculs, but
 the quantity increasing; with some minor articles, the
 total value of which may be about 45,000 rupees. The
 payments on account of slaves have not fallen short of
 from 70 to 80,000 rupees a-year ; making the total value
 of the exports about 120,000 rupees. The returns for
 this are almost entirely in the following articles of mer

 chandize: --blue salampores, white mamoodies and gur-

rahs, kerwahs, iron, brass ware, steel, gold-dust, coarse
china-ware, &c. &c. Salt is manufactured in small quan
tities on various parts of the coast, by the method of
pouring salt water on burning wood, and is sold at the

rate of three bamboos for a dollar. It is very sparingly

used by the Nias people, probably on account of the enor
mous price ; but it is not unlikely that it would come into

more general use, were they supplied at a cheaper rate by

importation.

   " In the northern division of the island, the trade has

been principally in the hands of the Malays and Achenese
who have settled at the various ports, and formed alliances

               DESCRIPTION OF PULO MAS.    177

and connexions with the Nias Chiefs. This connexion has

subsisted for a considerable length of time, some of the

early settlements having been formed about sixty or

eighty years ago ; and frequent intermarriages have so

united their interests, that the Nias Chiefs are generally
guided by their Malay friends in all their intercourse with

foreigners : they have never, however, yielded any part of

their territorial rights, or admitted their interference in

their internal affairs. The efforts of the Malays have

been solely directed to engrossing the commerce, which

they have in a great measure effected, and the Nias

people rarely attempt to dispose of their produce at first
hand. The kind of monopoly they have thus succeeded

in establishing diminishes the profit to the grower on

the one hand, at the same time that it enhances the price

to the buyer.

   " In the southern districts, on the contrary, there are

no foreign settlers, and the Nias people themselves carry

on a direct traffic with boats and vessels from all parts of

the Sumatran coast. The consequence is, there is more

wealth, and the people appear to have made a greater

advance in the arts of life.
  " The Achenese have generally been found the most

troublesome intruders ; wherever they have been allowed

to settle, their aim has been to foment dissensions and

troubles, with a view to their own independence, and

the more easily gratifying their rapacity. They are

the principal  agents in the slave-trade,  and are not
   VOL. II.
                                                 N

178 DESCRIPTION OF POLO WAS.

very scrupulous in the means they resort to for pro

curing them.
   " The Nias slaves are highly valued throughout the

East, for their industry, ingenuity, and fidelity ; and ob
servation has shown that these are no less the charac
teristics of the people in their native country. The inter
course with them has given us a most favourable impres
sion of their native character, and of their capabilities of
improvement. Notwithstanding the disadvantages of a
secluded situation, the absence of all instruction and ex
ample, and the insecurity arising from a state of internal
division, they have drawn forth, by their industry, the
resources of their fertile country to a greater degree than
has yet been effected by any of their neighbours on the
coast of Sumatra.

    " The extent of their grain export would alone be suffi
cient evidence of their industry; but the same spirit
 pervades their whole economy. Their towns and vil
 lages, placed on elevated situations, with a view to
 defence, are clean and neat ; the ascent is facilitated by
 a long stair or causeway, regularly built of stones, and
 shaded by a row of fruit trees on each side; and the
 principal street itself is often paved in a manner that
 would do credit to European skill. Their houses are
 built of wood in the most substantial manner, raised upon
 strong posts, and their interior is arranged with a neat
 ness not devoid of elegance. Attached to every village
 are two enclosed baths, built of stones, appropriated to

DESCRIPTION OF PULO MAS.  179

the different sexes ; any trespass by a man on that

belonging to the females subjects the offender to a heavy

fine. In the manufacture of their arms, clothing, and

gold ornaments, (of which they wear a great many,) they
display great ingenuity and considerable taste. In their
persons they are a handsome, athletic race ; their warlike
habits, and perhaps the nature of their country, give them
an activity and vigour of frame unusual to the inhabitants
of tropical countries. They are not addicted to any prac
tice of intoxication or gambling. Their address is frank

and open; they are keen in their commercial dealings,
fond of gain, but scrupulously exact in the fulfilment of

their engagements.

   " The country is divided into a number of tribes and
districts, whose Chiefs maintain a perfect independence of
each other, and between many of whom ancient feuds and
perpetual enmity subsist. In his own district the Eajah
possesses considerable power, and is considered lord of

the soil, though he derives no direct revenue therefrom.

In the exercise of his judicial authority he is assisted by
the Pamunchu, which office is always held by one of his

relations, and their decisions are guided by the traditional
usages or customs of the country. Their laws are re
markable for severity ; offences are probably rare. Mur
der, adultery, and robbery, are punished with death, and
the slavery of the offender's family ; theft, and minor

offences, by heavy fines.

    " In cases of debt, on failure of payment at the regular
                                                            n2

180  DESCRIPTION OF PULO N1AS.

time, the amount is doubled ; on a second failure it is

doubled again, and so on until it amounts to a certain
sum, when the creditor is considered entitled to the person
of his debtor as a slave. Should the debtor avoid com

pliance, which is often the case, the creditor may seize on
any member of his family ; and when they belong to dif
ferent districts, the first straggler of the tribe is some
times made responsible. This practice produces much
distrust, as no man is secure from seizure on some pre

tence or other ; and the consequence is, they are always
on their guard, and never move any where unarmed.

All marriages are by jujur (or purchase), and the amount
is very high. It is probable that a great part of the debts

are incurred on this account.

   " All the evils arising from the imperfections of their

civil institutions have been aggravated and increased by
the odious traffic in slaves ; and as this subject is one of
peculiar interest, we have been particular in obtaining the
most minute information concerning its extent, causes,

and origin.

   " The greatest number of slaves has hitherto been ex

ported from Sumanbawa and Sello Dalum ; those from

the northern parts have been much fewer. It is by no

means easy to get an exact account of their numbers,
some endeavouring to extenuate and diminish it, and
others equally desirous of magnifying it, according as
they wished to give a favourable impression of their con
duct, or a high idea of their wealth ; and the very nature

DESCRIPTION OF PULO N1AS.  181

 of the trade in some measure precludes exactness. From
 a comparison, however, of these different accounts, checked
by an estimate of the number of vessels resorting thither,
and the value of their imports, we are satisfied that the
annual number exported has not fallen short of fifteen

hundred. According to some accounts, more than this
had been carried from Sumanbawa alone. They are pur
chased chiefly by Achenes and Chinese vessels, the latter
of whom carry them to Padang and Batavia.

   " The circumstances that attend the traffic are no less
revolting to humanity than those which marked it on the
coasts of Africa. The unhappy victims, torn by violence

from their friends and country, are delivered, pinioned
hand and foot, to the dealers in human flesh ; they are
kept bound during the whole course of the voyage, a pre
caution which is considered necessary to the safety of the

crew. Instances have occurred where the captives have
seized a moment of liberty to snatch up the first weapon
within their reach, stab all whom they have encountered,
and conclude the scene by leaping overboard, and volun

tarily seeking a watery death. In their country, the Nias

people rarely make use of rice as food, and are almost un
acquainted with the use of salt. The sudden change of
diet to which they are subjected on board ship, added to
the confinement and dejection of mind, prove fatal to
many: of a cargo of thirty slaves, twenty have been
known to perish before the conclusion of the voyage ; and,
on a moderate calculation, it may be estimated that, of

182  DESCRIPTION OF PULO NIAS.

the total number purchased, one-fourth never reach their
destinations, but fall victims to the various causes above

mentioned.

   " On the scenes of violence that take place in this
country itself in the search of victims it will be useless to
dwell ; they can be better imagined than described. We
shall merely relate one well- authenticated instance, as

given by an eye-witness. ' A plan had been laid to

attack a single insulated house, inhabited by a man, his

wife, and children, and to seize the whole family. At the

appointed hour the house was surrounded, but the man
no sooner discovered his situation, understood the pur

pose, and saw that there was no escape, than he locked
himself into the inner apartment, drew his kris, killed first
his wife and children, and then plunged it in his own
breast, preferring death to a life of slavery.'

    " Such are the circumstances that our inquiries have
brought to light; it is impossible to contemplate such

high qualities as we have described, subjected to such
evils, without feeling the strongest interest in their favour.
They have appealed to Britain for protection ; they have
placed themselves under her flag and dominion. We
cannot forbear recording the remarkable expression of

one of the Chiefs of Tellodalam. He earnestly entreated
us not to leave him : ' Have patience with us,' he said ;

' we are ignorant, uninstructed people, but we are desir
ous of obtaining the means of improvement : formerly we
looked to the Malays and to the Achenese, but they de

DESCRIPTION OF PULO NIAS.  183

ceived us ; if you should now desert us, from whom can

we entertain any hope V We trust the appeal will not
be in vain.

   " With a view to ascertain the best means of effecting
the suppression of this nefarious commerce, we have been

minute in our inquiries into the causes and origin of
slavery in Pulo Nias, and the mode in which slaves are
procured. Slavery is recognized by their laws and cus
toms ; it is the punishment ordained for certain crimes,
and it is permitted as the ultimate resource in cases of
debt. These customs have, no doubt, been much in
creased in severity by the temptation of an external
demand, and are often employed on very slight pretences,
but they are quite inadequate to account for the great
number annually exported. We have abundant proof
 that the greater number are made slaves by open and
 actual violence. The Rajahs had little hesitation in ad
 mitting the fact, but said that the system originated with
 foreigners, and that the source of the evil was without.

 In fact, the temptation of exorbitant gain, and the per
 suasion of the dealers who resort to the ports, prove too

 much for their self-denial, and induce the most unprin
 cipled among them to have recourse to every means of
 fraud, stratagem, or violence, to procure victims to their

 avarice.

   It" must not be forgotten to record that we have met

 with a few instances of Chiefs whose virtues have been

  proof against temptation; who had hot only prohibited

184  DESCRIPTION OF PULO NIAS.

 the traffic in their own districts, but even refused to
permit the transit of slaves from the interior, or their
disposal in any manner at their respective ports. We
had still greater reason to be satisfied with the conduct
of the Rajah of Sumanbawa. On the subject being first
opened to him, and our views and intentions explained,
he expressed his own approbation, but wished to commu
nicate with the Chief of the interior, with whom he was

connected, before entering into such important engage
ments ; the answer proved unfavourable, and the Rajah
was threatened with vengeance. After some consulta
tion, however, he came on board and acquainted us that
he was determined to disregard the threats of the interior
Chief, and to enter into agreements with us. He pro
fessed himself ready to shut his ports against all exporta
tion of slaves, on condition of our affording protection
and encouragement to legitimate commerce. This was
peculiarly gratifying, as Sumanbawa has hitherto been
the greatest slave-port on the Island. Indeed it is but
justice to all the Chiefs to say that, on a full discus
sion, they entered into our views with regard to the
slave-trade with more cordiality than could have been

expected.

   " The measures, therefore, to be adopted for its sup

pression appear to divide themselves into three branches.
First, to check as much as possible the external demand ;
second, to endeavour to soften and modify the severity of
the native customs ; and third, to provide the means of

DESCRIPTION OF PULO NIAS.  185

relief to debtors, and such as by existing usages are liable
to the condition of slavery.

   " On inquiring of the different Rajahs the number of
persons in a state of slavery on account of debt, whose re
demption they wished to effect, the answer was uniformly,

' We have none, but if you wish to purchase slaves, wait a

few days and you may have a hundred." On inquiring fur
ther how this was to be effected, we found that they had only
to send notice to their agents among the interior Rajahs,
and any number were forthwith brought down bound.
They probably sent word to catch so many slaves, with as

much indifference as they would have given an order to

catch so many hogs for the same purpose. The fact is
the arrival of the trading boats, which takes place at a cer

tain season, is the signal for universal rapine and violence

throughout the interior.

   " On the subject of religion, the people of Pulo Nias
have but few ideas ; they acknowledge a Supreme Being,
whom they call Sumban Quit or the Lord of Heaven, but

they have no distinct notions respecting him. Wooden
images are to be found in all their houses, which are re
garded as a kind of lares or protecting household gods,
but no worship is addressed to them ; they are rather con
sidered as representatives or memorials of their ancestors,

for whom they have a great reverence. A belief in charms

is common, and every man carries a bundle of these at
tached to his kris. Great occasions are celebrated by the
slaughter of hogs and a great feast ; and when a Chief

186 DESCRIPTION OF PULO MAS.

commences any affair of consequence, as the building of a
house, the head of an enemy is sometimes suspended in
honour of the circumstance. Their form of oath is by
cutting the throat of a hog, while the party invokes the
vengeance of Heaven that he may suffer the fate of the

said animal if he prove unfaithful to his oath.
   " In these rude notions we can trace little more than the

unassisted efforts of the human mind in a low state of
civilization, conscious of the limitation of its own powers,

and impelled thereby to imagine a superior existence. It

would be vain to trace a connexion between them and any
of the forms of Pagan worship established in the East.
The people of Nias had probably been separated at a
very early period from their original stock, and have been
exempted by their insular situation from the influence of
the various religions that have at different times pervaded
the greater islands. The settlements of Mahomedans
have been of too recent a date to have much influence, and
they have made but few converts ; they have not, however,
overlooked the object, but have generally defeated it by
their rapacity and violence. By Europeans the Island
has been almost entirely neglected. Thus abandoned to
the ravages of pirates, and to all the evils of an active
slave-trade, we cannot but estimate highly those native
energies which have rendered their country populous and
flourishing in spite of so many obstacles."

   Sir Stamford was anxious to do the utmost possible

DESCRIPTION OF PULO NIAS.  187

good for such an Island and such a people. It has been

stated that Pulo Nias is the granary of that side of
Sumatra, and the extent of its grain produce only limited
by the demand. The benefits arising from the suppres
sion of the slave-trade would not be confined to the relief

of the unhappy victims alone, but would be the first step
to the civilization of the country. Independent of the
habits of cruelty and rapine which it tends to infuse, the
exorbitant profit it holds out, like those of gambling,
excites an aversion to the slower advantages of legitimate

commerce and agricultural labour. It required no special

interposition of foreign influence ; a few stations of police
along the coast would have been sufficient evidence of
protection, and this Sir Stamford warmly advocated, and
hoped so great a benefit so easily obtained would meet
with approbation from all the wise and good : but the
Court of Directors "had no hesitation in declaring that his
proceedings in regard to Pulo Nias were deserving of their
decided reprehension." " And they were inclined to visit
him with some severe mark of their displeasure for the
steps he had taken," and threatened to remove him from

his government.

    After the transfer of Sumatra to the Dutch, the slave-

 trade was resumed with greater vigour than ever; and
numbers of these poor people have since been carried
 away to Batavia, and the French Island of Bourbon.

188     REFORM IN THE SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS.

                                             TO .

                                                    " Bencoolen, Feb. 1st, 1821.

  I" am now engaged in drawing up a detailed report of

the past, present, and anticipated circumstances of this

settlement with reference to its finances in particular.
This report will not be long, but it takes time to go
through the books, and draw out abstract statements of

the accounts.

  I" have had a great deal of trouble in revising and re

forming our general books and accounts, and it is only

*****Ilately that have received authority from Bengal to clear

them of the rubbish and confusion which has been heaped
upon them during the last twenty years of ruin and deso

lation.

        TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                                      "Bencoolen, May 15, 1821.

"I have not much to communicate from hence. We

have about half-a-dozen new animals to describe, and our

collections of plants are rapidly increasing. What shall

Ifwe do with them ?  we do not clear off as we go, we

shall find ourselves terribly clogged in our future exer

tions.

" Our agriculture is extending, and much of my time

Iis spent in the country.  am now completing a very

comfortable residence ; the grounds are in one direction

about four miles long, and towards the hills about three

IMPROVEMENT OF BENCOOLEN.                    189

miles wide. We hope to raise all our supplies on them,

Ias the sawah land is very extensive, and have upwards

of two hundred head of fine cattle. Our roads are excel

lent. The distance is about thirteen miles from Marl

Iborough ; but think the communication is much quicker

than between Aldenham and London, as our friends think

nothing of driving out to breakfast, and returning before

the heat of the day.

  I" sincerely hope we shall carry you along with us in

Iour progress of improvement.  need not tell you how

Ianxious am to know your sentiments on what we are

doing ; for you must be pretty well aware that in all such

Iproceedings it is rather to good and sincere friends that

can look for advice and support, than to the higher official

Iauthorities with whom am in communication.  Neither

the Court of Directors nor the Supreme Government

seems inclined to enter into any improvements which do

not decrease expenses, and raise immediate revenues ; and

I find that it is really lost labour to enter into long ex

planations, and furnish them with despatches which they

Inever read. While am conscious of taking the right
I Ipath, shall persevere ; and suppose that in the end,

when we come to collect the fruits, we shall find all the

authorities willing to gather them.
   " Our climate is excellent and delightful, and the im

provements which we see give an interest in the place

Iwhich never thought it capable of exciting.

   " Lady Baffles bears up remarkably well. Marsden,

190     LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

Iyour godson,  am happy to say, is getting on very fast.

My other children are becoming quite companions, and

Ioften remind me of the necessity shall be under of re

*****turning to England at no very distant date."
                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.
                                                          * Bencoolen, May 29, 1821.
   " God willing, we hope to embark from this for England,

Iif not in 1823, certainly in 1824 ; am not aware of any

changes which are likely to protract my departure. On

the contrary, everything seems to concur in proving the

necessity, to say nothing of the inclination to return:
political events may hasten, but cannot well retard it ;

and my presence in England may soon become indispens

Iable in support of what have been trying to do in this

part of the world. It is hardly possible for you to con

Iceive how much have suffered for opening so important

a channel for trade as has been effected by the establish

ment of Singapore : everything is condemned. But a

Itruce to politics : have other reasons to urge me home.

Neither my health nor that of Lady Raffles is very good ;

I never was strong, and during my first residence in India

the climate made a considerable inroad on my constitu

Ition.  have had two or three severe attacks since my

return, and am now under the necessity of being very
I Icareful.
        really do not think could last out above two

or three years more ; and certainly ambition shall not

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  191

weigh with me one moment against life. Besides this,

my dear little rogues will be rapidly expanding. Char

lotte is already as advanced as most children of five years

old : she takes an interest in every thing that is going

forward, and is really becoming quite a companion. In
two or three years both her mind and body will require a

colder climate, and to send her home for education, as

people usually send their children from this country, is

out of the question ; we have determined to take her and

all the children ("for we have now four born within as
many years), and to time our departure with reference to

their health and happiness. Leopold also will, in two or

three years, have grown beyond my management, and it

will be time to commence upon the rudiments of a better

I Ieducation than can give him. believe people generally
Ithink shall remain longer, as they hardly suppose in

such times, and with an increasing family, a man will be

inclined to forego the advantages of the field before me ;

Ibut they know me not.  have seen enough of power and

wealth to know that, however agreeable to the propen
sities of our nature, there is more real happiness in domes

tic quiet and repose, when blessed with a competence, than

in all the fancied enjoyments of the great and the rich.

  I" Of public news have very little to communicate, and

perhaps none that will be interesting. The Dutch you

know are still at war with Palembang, and they have lately
fitted out a third expedition, consisting of upwards of

3000 Europeans, fresh from Holland ; poor fellows ! They

192  LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

are determined on vengeance. No quarter is to be given,

and dreadful will be the massacre if they succeed, which

God forbid !
   " Our establishment at Singapore is gaining ground so

rapidly, that the Dutch are determined to risk everything,

Isooner than allow us to remain ; and, as far as can judge

*****of the proceedings between the Commissioners in England,

there is reason to fear they will gain their point. It is

the only chance our ministers have of making some
amends for the manner in which they restored Java.

  I" am afraid you will find this a very long and selfish

letter, and yet you beg of me to say more of me and mine.

I have endeavoured to obey your commands."

     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                               "June 12, 1821.

I I" In my last letter, informed you was much interested

with the people of Pulo Nias ; during the last month my

Iattention has been entirely devoted to them, and am half

inclined to write a book in their favour, in order to prove

Ithat they are the happiest and the best people on earth.
Ihad nearly made my mind up to this, when made further

discoveries in the neighbouring Islands, called the Nassau
Ior Poggy Islands, where
                               found a people still more

If Iamiable, and, if possible, still more genuine.  go on
Iat this rate, may expect to discover the garden of Eden,

and the descendants of our first parents, enjoying all the

simplicity of primeval times.

          LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.     193

" It is very certain that on the first discovery of what

we term savage nations, philosophers went beyond all

reason and truth in favour of uncivilised happiness ; but

it is no less certain, that of late years, the tide of prejudice
has run equally strong in the opposite direction ; and it is

now the fashion to consider all who have not received the

impression of European arms and laws, and the lights of

Revelation, as devoid of every feeling and principle which

can constitute happiness, or produce moral good. The

truth, most probably, as is generally the case, lies between

the two extremes, and there is, no doubt, much difference

according to the circumstances under which the people
may have been placed. We find, in some of the Islands

of the South Seas, people who are habitually mis

chievous, given to thieving, lazy, and intractable ; in

others, we find the very opposite qualities ; and phi

losophers, speculating upon the first data that are af

forded, without full and general information, are led

into error.

   " Various circumstances have hitherto prevented me

Ifrom penetrating into the Batta country, but lose no

opportunity of collecting information, and your Grace

will not perhaps be surprised to learn, that even among

Ithese cannibals, find much to praise and admire. In
Ione province have ascertained, beyond doubt, that a

considerable refinement has taken place in the mode of

eating parents. Here, instead of the young people eat

ing the old ones, when past work, they send them to their

VOL. II.                                      o

*****194
RAVAGES OF THE CHOLERA MORBUS.

neighbours, who, in due time, return the compliment to
them."

" You must,           TO MR. MARSDEN.

                                      " Bencoolen, July 12, 1821.

             during the last year, have been so much

pestered with my letters, that a respite of a few months

will be very acceptable. Your letters of the 21st Novem

Iber and 28th December have duly arrived ; and hardly

know how to thank you for the zealous interest you have

Itaken in all the questions have so unmercifully troubled
Iyou with. You have done just as could have wished in

everything, and, once for all, allow me to return my most

sincere and grateful acknowledgments.

  I" have obtained a great mathematical assistant, and

hope to do something respecting the geography of the

island. Dr. Jack and a few friends have just ascended

the Sugar-loaf, and were the first Europeans who had

reached the summit ; they are still out in their rambles,

Iand will, hope, bring in an abundant collection in the

botanical department. Of animals they have not yet ob

tained one that is new ; and indeed they observe, with

regard to the mountain, that it is in vain to look for them

there, as none but monkeys can possibly climb the rocks.

  I" Java, am concerned to say, is suffering under all

the miseries of the exterminating cholera; the deaths

average eight hundred a- day, and from ten minutes to

four hours is the usual period of illness. God grant it

DEATH OF SIR STAMFORD'S ELDEST SON.  195

may not extend this way, although, as one of the Radius

said on the occasion, if it did, it would leave us much as it

found us, as the population could not be well more scanty
than at present.

   " Your god-son grows a fine boy, and runs about.

Lady Raffles has since presented me with another girl."

   Upwards of three years had passed in uninterrupted

health and happiness, but a sad reverse took place at this
period; the blessings most prized were withdrawn; the
child most dear to the father's heart, whose brightness
and beauty were his pride and happiness, expired in all
the bloom of infancy, after a few hours' illness : and from
this time until his return to England, sickness and death

prevailed throughout the settlement and in his own
family ; but God's Holy Spirit enabled him to receive

these afflictions with meekness, and to feel that they were
trials of faith, not judgments of anger.

                   to .

I" little thought  a week         " Bencoolen, July 12, 1821.
                           ago, when overwhelmed with

grief by the loss of our dear and eldest boy Leopold, who

Iwas snatched from us after a very short illness, that

should so soon have been called upon to report upon

another, and to you, my dear friend, a still more severe

loss. A vessel leaves this port immediately, and bad

news flies fast.  Cruel as must be the stroke, and ill

                                                   p2

 19G ANECDOTE OF A NATIVE WOMAN.

Iqualified as am at the present moment to break it to
IIyou with the tenderness and caution could wish, must
perform the duty : I must rend your heart by telling you

 that our dear friend and your brother Harry is no more !
    " He breathed his last yesterday, and was carried off in

 a few days by a series of apoplectic fits, which baffled all

***** Ithe powers of medicine. He has just been buried, and

Isnatch a moment from the time am obliged to devote to

 Sophia to send you the melancholy intelligence.

  I" shall not trouble you with our griefs, you will have

enough of your own. Neither Sophia nor myself are
well, and time and the influence of God's blessed Spirit
can alone work any change. My resolution is taken to
return home during the next or the following year.

   " Neither my health nor spirits, nor indeed my time, if

I had either, enable me to say more ; in a few days we

shall be more collected. God bless you ! and believe that
there are hearts here which sympathize with yours most
deeply."

   As an example of the character and feeling of the
people, the following anecdote may be interesting: --
Whilst the Editor was almost overwhelmed with grief for
the loss of this favourite child, unable to bear the sight
of her other children --unable to bear even the light of
day, --humbled upon her couch with a feeling of misery, --

she was addressed by a poor, ignorant, uninstructed native

ECONOMY OF SIR STAMFORD'S GOVERNMENT.  197

woman of the lowest class, (who had been employed about
the nursery,) in terms of reproach not to be forgotten :--

I" am come because you have been here many days shut

up in a dark room, and no one dares to come near you.
Are you not ashamed to grieve in this manner, when you
ought to be thanking God for having given you the most
beautiful child that ever was seen ? Were you not the
envy of every body ? Did any one ever see him, or speak
of him, without admiring him ; and instead of letting this
child continue in this world till he should be worn out
with trouble and sorrow, has not God taken him to
heaven in all his beauty ? What would you have more ?
For shame, leave off weeping, and let me open a
window."

                                   to .

                                                          " Bencoolen, October 16<A, 1821.

             **# ***
    " So far from my administration being expensive, you
 will perceive that the nett charges are less than any
 former year, notwithstanding all the changes that have
been worked, and that they are in a gradual course of
 reduction.

  *****# # * # *

  I" My spirits are quite broken down, and can write

but little.

   I" send by this conveyance my report on the past,

 present, and future, or rather prospective circumstances

                                                                                            s

198  ECONOMY OF SIR STAMFORD'S GOVERNMENT.

of Bencoolen. It is my last effort, and will prove that my
finances will bear the test of examination. You will per

ceive how we are reducing the nett charges.

  I" do not expect an unlimited surrender in favour of

colonization, but it is a great point even to move the

Ifquestion.  we can go silently on, the end will be accom

plished eventually ; all we want is men and capital, and

certainly you have abundance to spare.
   " We are getting better, but Sophia is not competent

to write."

                     TO MR. MARSDEN.

     " My dear Sir,  " Bencoolen, November 9th, 1821.

  I" have before me your long and kind letters of the
I11th, 19th, and 23rd of March, the last which have
Ireceived, and can hardly find words to express to you

either my acknowledgments for the warm interest which

you have taken in all that concerns me, or my regret and

Iannoyance that should have subjected you to so much
Itrouble and inconvenience. For the latter have no

excuse to offer but the necessity which obliged me to call

I Iupon some friend on whom knew could rely ; and in

the hope that your kindness, like charity, will cover a

I Imultitude of sins, will fain trust that am already for

given for the unreasonable intrusion on your time.

  I I" will write you more fully hereafter, at present am
Ihurried and am sorry to say very far from well. The

             LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.         199

loss of our eldest boy has been a severe stroke to us, and

followed as it has been by so many deaths among our rela

tives and connexions, it has nearly proved fatal to our

Ihappiness.  thank God Lady Raffles is at last recover

Iing, but we are neither of us what we were, and fear we

must soon think seriously of returning home.

  I" have some anxiety about a successor for this place :
Iunless it is some one inclined to follow in the track have
I Imarked out, fear all have done may be thrown away.

We are certainly improving.

  I" am planting coffee extensively at Permattam Ballam,

and the country really begins to assume a new character.

At present, my plan is to leave this the end of next year,

about this time, for Singapore, and there to remain till

I Ihear what are the arrangements at home.  have no

Iidea of its being given up to the Dutch, but fear its

being put under Panang. Should everything go on

Ifavourably, which is hardly to be expected, should wish

to remain at Singapore till the early part of 1824.
   " My last letter will have informed you that our atten

tion is now devoted to geographical and geological in

formation. The result is contained in a paper forwarded

to Mr. Colebrook : for the correctness, as far as it goes,

I Ihold myself fully responsible. About January expect

a party will be here from the observatory at Madras, for

the purpose of trying the vibration of the pendulum on

the line ; if we have good weather and zealous men we

shall do much. We go on collecting the never-failing

200               LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.

wonders of our extraordinary and abundant vegetation.

I have lately thought it advisable to draw up a short

review of the circumstances of Bencoolen, particularly with

reference to its finances ; should you be disposed to read

it, it may perhaps serve to amuse an idle hour, and it will

Iprove to you that am leaving no stone unturned to make

I Ithe most of this place before leave it.  am working

IIupon rather a stubborn soil, but think feel it give way

before the exertions we are now making.
   " Our little family are upon the whole very well ; they

have their share of trials, but bear them pretty well, and

at present are in good health. Charlotte is everything

mamma could wish, and Marsden, now alas, the only son,

is advancing rapidly. He has not the beauty and loveli

ness of poor Leopold, but he is a fine boy, and remarkably

quiet and intelligent. Our last, Ella, is a great beauty.
   " We live in the country quite retired, and when the sun

admits, which is not for many hours in the day, we are

always in the grounds superintending our improvements.
We call our house Permattam Ballam --the abode of peace.

   " Our missionaries are engaged in printing a new version

of the gospel of St. John. Mr. Robinson, the author of the

work on Malayan orthography, is a Baptist missionary,
who settled under my administration in Java, and has

since sought my protection here; he has been a close

student of Malay literature and language for the last

seven years, and has long been in the habit of preaching

to the natives."

ILL HEALTH OF SIR STAMFORD.  201

TO THE DUCHESS OF  .

                                                                     " November 9, 1821.

   "My heart has been nigh broken, and my spirit is

I Igone : have lost almost all that prided myself upon in

this world, and the affliction came upon us at a moment

when we least expected such a calamity. Had this dear

boy been such as we usually meet with in this world, time
would ere this have reconciled us to the loss--but such a

child ! Had you but seen him and known him you must
have doated--his beauty and intelligence were so far

above those of other children of the same age, that he

shone among them as a sun, enlivening and enlightening

Ieverything around him. had vainly formed such notions

of future happiness when he should have become a man,

and be all his father wished him, that I find nothing left

but what is stale, flat, and unprofitable. My remaining

Ichildren are, thank God, rather superior to the ordinary

run, and Charlotte is everything we could wish her. How

Iis it that feel less interest in them than in the one that

is gone 1--perhaps it is in our nature.

  I" But must leave this subject, or you will have cause

to regret my correspondence. You will be sorry to hear
that Lady Raffles and myself have been seriously ill, and

I Ithat am still so far complaining that hardly know
I Iwhether shall live or die. At one time am sorry to
I Isay cared but little which way my fate turned ; but now

begin to think of the necessity of exertion for those about

202  ILL HEALTH OF SIR STAMFORD.

Ime, and sometimes venture to look forward; but am

too low and wretched to write much more, even if my paper

allowed."

                                to .
                                          " Bencoolen, November \0th, 1821.

   " Sophia has at last undertaken to write to her mother.

IShe is getting better, and am happy to say the children
Iare well ; for myself am at this moment under the ope

ration of mercury, and maintain but a crazy kind of exist
I Ience.
     sometimes think it very doubtful that shall ever

Ireach England again : at other times, rally a little ; but,

Iupon the whole,  begin to be more indifferent as to the

*****Iresult than used to be.
   " My present plan is to leave Bencoolen about this time

Inext year for Singapore, and to remain there till go

home.
  I" As far as comfort and accommodation go, think we

might more advantageously remain all our time at Ben

Icoolen, but we want a change, and dread the chance of

two years' idleness."

                  TO THE SAME.

                  " Bencoolen, December 6th, i821.

" Our health has upon the whole improved, but we have
Istill a sick house ; nothing however serious.
                                                calculate

that by the next China ship we shall be able to see our

If Iway clear.
     it is certain that am not to administer

ISingapore on my own principles, then shall feel little

ILL HEALTH OF SIR STAMFORD.                     203

IIinterest in going round as at first proposed. If do not

go the end of next year it will probably be March, 1823,

Ibefore move from hence to Singapore, my object being
Ito remain there till start for England. This event will,
I hope, take place in January, 1824, at furthest; my

health and constitution will not stand longer.

I" observe what you say regarding trade and the open

Iing which now offers by the late Act.  fear trade any

where just now is a bad concern. At any rate it is not

likely to be much improved in India by this unimportant
Act --it merely grants to English ships indulgences which

they formerly took upon themselves to enjoy."

   " We have thousands of ships carrying on the port to

port trade, including China, and the only advantage now

gained by the English shipping is, that they are allowed

to compete with those of India on pretty nearly fair terms.

It may possibly raise the value of English ships, and will

in proportion depress those of India, and it may be the

*****means of satisfying John Bull for a year or two, when he

will find that he has not gained much by it : you see,
therefore, that we view this subject in India somewhat dif

ferently to what you do in England."
                                            TO .

                                                      "Bencoolen, December 10th, 1821.

   " We are at this moment in great alarm for our dear
Charlotte, who labours under a violent dysentery--Sophia
has not left her for three days and nights, and our

204  LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

almost only hope is now in effecting a salivation with

mercury. So severe has been our affliction in the loss of

poor Leopold, that we are hardly capable of sustaining a
second shock of the kind just now. The younger children
have also been seriously ill, but are getting better. We

have at any rate resolved to send home all we have left as

Isoon as a ship going direct can be procured : have half

made an agreement with the Captain of the Borneo for
the purpose, and they will probably sail in February.

   " What a sad reverse is this ! but the other day we were

alarmed lest we should have too many, now all our anxiety
is to preserve some even of those we have. The change

of climate may do wonders, and we shall hope to follow
them in a year or eighteen months.

  " I keep to my resolution of going to Singapore in the

course of the present year ; some change will be necessary

for Sophia."

     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

     " Bencoolen, December \6th, 1821.

" My last letter will have informed you of our sad afflic

Ition in the loss of my dear boy Leopold.  cannot yet

reflect on the event with any degree of calmness. Char

lotte has also nearly fallen a sacrifice to the climate, and is
at this moment far from being out of danger. Our house

for the last six months has been a complete hospital. This

change has within a few days induced us to resolve upon
sending all the children we may have left to England

EXTENSION OF THE EASTERN TRADE.  205

without loss of time, and we propose embarking them on

the Borneo, to touch here for them in February next. If

Iour dear Charlotte lives to embark, shall write you more
Iparticularly, if not shall want spirits to address you.

   " My own health still continues most seriously affected.

I am seldom well for twelve hours, and always laid up for

several days in the month. Nothing but a sense of public

duty would weigh with me, under these circumstances, to

Istay a day longer ; but cannot leave my post without

previous notice, and completing some arrangements which

Iare in progress.  shall, however, be at liberty to move

Iwhere please, by the time our answer can be received

from England to letters written by the present oppor

tunity. Lady Raffles is almost exhausted with continual

watching, night and day."

                             to .

                                                              " Bencoolen, Dec. 26th, 1821.

   " My former letters will apprise you that we send our
dear children home by the 1st of March, so that you may
expect them in June. Charlotte is improving, though

very slowly.

   " With regard to the increased facilities in trade to
arise from the new Act, you will see from my former let

Iters, that do not rank them very high. They will, to a
Icertain extent, be injurious to the country traders ; but

think the local knowledge of the latter, and their greater
facilities of knowing the state of the markets, and taking

206 sir Stamford's views regarding Singapore.

advantage of the moment, will still enable them to sustain

a successful competition.

  I" have said and done all that was possible in the

political department. My attention will occasionally be

directed to the agricultural interests at Bencoolen ; but

Ias soon as proceed to Singapore, commercial plans will

occupy all my time. All the information which has yet
reached England seems to be very general You want

something practical, and my idea is to collect all parti
culars in detail; that is to say, specimens of the manu
factures that may be introduced into Siam, Cochin- China,
Japan, &c., through Singapore ; the extent of the de
mand, the price to be obtained, and the returns to be

procured. A body of information of this kind, collected

by me on the spot, with the advantage of personal expla
nation in Europe, is likely to be very valuable.

  I" shall probably point out great advantages ; such as

the introduction into China of manufactured cottons, in
lieu of twenty thousand tons of raw material, that we
now send them from India ; the supersession in the China
market of the iron and crockery-ware, now so extensively
in demand from China throughout the whole Archi
pelago ; the extensive circulation of a British copper

coinage throughout the Archipelago.

  I" hope to prove to the Company and my country,
Ithat in my views and expectations regarding Singapore,

have not been visionary."

           PROPOSED VISIT TO SINGAPORE.       207

                                         " Bencoolen, January \5th, 1822.

" We have this jnorning buried our beloved Char

lotte. Poor Marsden was carried to the grave not ten

days before, and within the last six months we have

lost our three eldest children : judge what must be our

distress.

I" This is a melancholy day, and      have turned my

thoughts to serious subjects : among the rest, to the risk

Iwe run by remaining longer in this country.  have,

therefore, taken the first step towards going home, by

sending in my resignation.            I find that I am not
    " On referring to my commission,

allowed to leave India without permission from the Court,

under the hand of thirteen or more Directors.
   " This is intended merely to apprise you of the mis

fortunes and afflictions we are still doomed to suffer. We

have now only one child left, the little Ella, still an infant ;

thank God, she is apparently well, and it is our deter

Imination she shall go home in the Borneo, in which ship

had engaged accommodation for the three.

  I" shall not attempt to convey to you anything like an

idea of poor Sophia's sufferings. Charlotte had attained

that age that she was quite a companion, and of all the

misfortunes likely to happen, this was the last looked to.

Yet, severe as the dispensation is, we are resigned to it ;

we have still reason to thank God.

  I" still propose visiting Singapore about September

next, to return here the following May. By the 1st

208 ILLNESS OF SIR STAMFORD.

January, 1824, God willing, we hope to be on our way

*****home ; but more of this hereafter."
                                                " Bencoolen, February 19th, 1822.
*****I" am sending home various collections,  principally

rocks and corals.
  I" have been desperately ill and confined to a dark
I Iroom the last ten days, but, thank God, am better :

dare not write much."

            "Bencoolen, February 26th, 1822.

  I" As the Borneo will be off in a day or two, sit down
Ito give you something of a general letter, but am too ill

and weak to write much, and you must excuse repetition,

I Ishould fall into it. For the last three weeks have been

confined to my room by a severe fever, which fell on the

Ibrain, and drove me almost to madness.  thank God,

Ihowever, that have now got over it, and am on my legs
Iagain ; but am still weak, and unable to converse with

strangers.

" The first and most interesting subject is our dear

child.      ** *                         *

" Our little darling is under the immediate charge of

Nurse Grimes. She leaves us in excellent health, and we

indulge the hope that by the strong measure we have
taken of sending her to a healthier climate, we may be

          BIBLE SOCIETY.                               209

spared this one comfort to solace and enliven our declin

ing days.

  I" Sophia's health, though it has suffered severely, is,

thank God, improving, and if it is the will of God that we

even continue as well as we are, we hope to be able to

stand out another year or two with tolerable comfort.    *

  I I" fancy shall find plenty to do at Singapore. *
" The place thrives wonderfully. The amount of the

tonnage arrived during the first two years and a half will

speak volumes in its favour.
   " We sent lately a commercial embassy to Siam, which

was well received. So convenient and contiguous is

Singapore, that Siam sugars and other articles are selling
there a dollar cheaper than in Siam itself : this is owing
to their being conveyed in native junks to Singapore.

   " There is a sad confusion at Penang, first among the

Governor and his counsellors, and next with the Siamese,

who have burnt and sacked Queda, and obliged the King

to take refuge at Penang.

          * * * *#

" You seem anxious to know how we go on with our

Ischools and Bible Society, and  am happy to report

favourably of them. Upon the whole we go on well, par

ticularly with the schools. We are printing the Gospels

in an improved Malay version suited to this coast, and 1

have it in contemplation to print the New Testament in

Javanese, which is now ready for the press.

  I" The spices think must attract the attention of the

VOL. II.                         P

210  DEATH OF SIR STAMFORD'S CHILDREN.

Court of Directors. The private consignments by the
Borneo are nearly equal to the Company's, and the whole
will afford a supply for the British Isles for nearly twelve
months.

   " Look after the engraving of the chart of the pepper
ports by Captain Ashmore, and interest Horsburgh : he
will know the value of them."

     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                           " Bencoolen, February 11th, 1822.

I" You will, am sure, grieve to learn what has befallen

us. My last letter announced to your Grace the loss of
Imy dear Leopold.
                   have now to add, that during the

last month, and within a few days of each other, we have
been successively deprived of my only remaining boy, and
of Charlotte, your god-daughter. We have now only one
left, an infant, the little Ella ; and that we may not run the

risk of a tropical climate, we send her home by the pre

sent opportunity, under the charge of our good old nurse.
   " Such severe trials in a climate by no means congenial

to an European constitution, and broken down as we

were by former afflictions, have had their effect in produc
ing severe illnesses. Lady Raffles has in point of health

shared better than myself, but she is miserably reduced
Iand lowered. For myself, have had two of the most

Isevere attacks ever suffered. The last a fever which

I Ifell on the brain, and was almost mad.  am still an

invalid, and confined to my room.

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  211

  I" How different are these communications to those

was so happy as to make during our first three years
residence ! We were then perhaps too happy, and

prided ourselves too highly on future prospects. It has

pleased God to blight our hopes, and we must now
lower our expectations more to the standard of the ordi
nary lot of human nature -- God's will be done !

   " All our thoughts, and all our wishes are now turned

homewards. Sometimes the prospect is bright, and the
heart expands in the contemplation ; at others, dark
clouds intervene, and the dread of meeting old friends

with new faces and colder hearts chills every feeling of

Ipleasure. For ourselves can only say, that with every

remove we have dragged a ' lengthened chain' ; and that

our attachments and affections have only warmed and
increased in the ratio of the distance to which we have

been driven, and the time we have been banished. We

shall carry home the same hearts, the same principles and

attachments with which we left England, heightened

only by the force which absence and privation give to
every enjoyment. Lady Raffles prays you to excuse her :
since the loss of my dear Leopold she has never dared to

take a pen in her hand.

   " In a day or two we shall be left without a single

child ! What a change ! We who had recently such a

large and happy circle. All our fears were once that we

 should have too many : all our cares are now to preserve

                                                              r2

212  LETTER TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.

Ione --our only one.       cannot say any more : my heart

is sick and nigh broken."

                             TO THE DUKE OF SOMERSET.

                                                 " Bencoolen, February 2Sth, 1822.

    " Our domestic misfortunes have borne so heavily upon

Ius, that have been obliged for many months to forego

the satisfaction of anything like a regular correspondence
with my friends. The loss of our three eldest children,
added to severe and dangerous illnesses, have so com
pletely broken our spirits, that we are almost afraid to

I Ilook forward ; and under these circumstances am sure

shall not plead in vain to your Grace, that you will excuse

my long silence.

  I" am still confined to my room from the effects of a

*****violent nervous fever, and my medical attendants limit

Ime to the number of lines may write : this will therefore

account for my unusual brevity.

  I" send by the Borneo a very considerable collection

of plants and seeds for the Horticultural Society : among
them some very thriving plants of the mangosteen and
other Malayan fruits, our choicest flowers, the sago and
sugar-tree, with all the varieties of our pine-apples, &c.

IIf the ship meets with good weather they will, think, be

a very valuable addition to their stock.
   " My settlement at Singapore continues to prosper.

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.           213

By the returns of shipping, and native vessels arrived
since it has been in our possession, the following results

appear.

   " The total tonnage arrived in two years and a half
has been upwards of 161,000 tons, and the estimated

value of imports and exports, 8,000,000 dol., or 2,000,000Z.
   " Considering all the disadvantages under which Sin

gapore has been placed, the want of confidence in its

retention even for a month, the opposition of the English

settlement at Panang, and of the Dutch, a stronger proof
of its commercial importance could hardly be afforded.

  " It is my intention to go round to Singapore in about

Ithree months, and to remain there until have made the

necessary arrangements for establishing the place on a

proper and lasting foundation.

  I" The change for a few months will, doubt not, prove

beneficial to Lady Raffles' health and spirits."

                TO MR. MARSDEN.

                " Bencoolen, Feb. 28th, 1 822.

" My dear Sir,

              " Our domestic afflictions have been so great,

Ithat have been quite unequal, during several months, to

maintain any thing like a regular correspondence with my

friends. You will have heard of our severe loss in the

Ideath of my eldest boy Leopold ; and have now to add,

that during the last month, and within a few days of each

other, we were doomed to lose our eldest daughter Char

214  CONSIGNMENT OF SPICES FROM BENCOOLEN.

lotte, our first-born, and my only remaining boy, Marsden,

your godson. These have been dreadful trials to my dear

ISophia ; but, thank God, she is now becoming tolerably

reconciled, and that, upon the whole, the shock has been

got over as well as could have been expected.
   " We have still one little prattler left, an infant ; but

after what has passed we have lost all confidence in the

climate, and lose not a moment in sending her to Eng

land. She proceeds in the Borneo, now about to quit this

port for London. Parting with our only one is an addi

tional trial to Lady Raffles, but we have judged it the best,

and have not allowed feelings to predominate. This will

prove to you that, however we may be depressed, the spring
of our minds is not destroyed.

  I" have myself suffered most severely from illness, and

am at this moment hardly convalescent, not having left

my room for three weeks. This last attack is the most

I Isevere have felt, and can compare it to nothing short

of a brain fever, which almost made me mad. It is the

Ifirst and only fever ever experienced, and by falling on

the nerves was doubly distressing.

  "All these circumstances combined have only tended

the more firmly to fix our determination of going to Eng

Iland in the course of next year, and have accordingly

sent home my resignation.

I" By the Borneo  send a considerable consignment of

Bencoolen spices to the Company, and the planters have

shipped a still larger quantity on their own account : the

      LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  215

invoices cannot amount to less than 100,000 dollars, and

probably more. This will afford the means of a fair expe

*****Iriment, and am anxious to interest all the friends of

Bencoolen in it. Our cultivation is extending, but we are

sadly off for capital and European industry, the very com
modities with which you overflow."
                          TO              .
"The  Borneo
                  sailed from    " Bencoolen, March 6, 1822.

                               hence on the 4th instant,

having our dear and only child on board. Sophia has

borne the parting tolerably well; but what a sad and
lonely house, without nurse and the children !--Never was
there such a change !--We wander from room to room,

solitary and dejected. But God's will be done, and we

must be content.

  I I" see no reason for altering the course am steering,

and my mind is made up to stand or fall by my own views

or measures ; thank you, however.  **

" Our schools here are extending, and the missionaries

gaining ground."

                       TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                    "Bencoolen, April 12, 1822.

  I" It is now above a month since wrote to your Grace

by the ship in which we sent home our dear and only re

maining child Ella ; and though, as you may well suppose,

we have been left as solitary and disconsolate as can well

216          DEFEAT OF THE DUTCH IN SUMATRA.

Ibe imagined, think it will be satisfactory to you to know
Ithat both Lady Raffles and have been gaining ground in

health and spirits. We now begin to look with some con

fidence on returning to our native land, and to indulge in

a thousand anticipations of joy and anxiety.  *
          *· **

   " In the way of news, or interesting information, you
cannot expect much. The only political event in our
neighbourhood of recent occurrence is the defeat of the

Dutch in the interior of Padang, where they have become

engaged in a war with the Padries, a sect of Mahomedans,

which is rapidly gaining ground through the northern parts

of Sumatra. It is the practice of these people, when they

are attacked, to place the women and children in front ;

and in the last onset by the Dutch, it is reported that not

less than one hundred and twenty women, each with a

child in her arms, were sacrificed, the women standing

firm.
   " The discomfiture of the Dutch on the last occasion is

stated to have been occasioned by the treachery of a Padri

Chief, who apparently came over to their side, and led

them into a snare ; and the Dutch took their revenge of

his perfidy by assembling all the troops and Chiefs of the

country, shaving off the poor man's beard, &c., and then

chopping off his head, embalming it, and sending it down

to the seat of government, to the Resident's, where it is

exhibited."

LETTER TO THOMAS MURDOCH, ESQ.  217

TO THOMAS MURDOCH, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,  " Bencoolen, April \1th, 1822.

I" am afraid you will have thought me very re

miss in not acknowledging the receipt of your kind and

friendly letters; and yet could you know the state of

misery and anxiety into which we have been plunged

Iduring the last year, am sure you would make allow

ances. Our first serious misfortune was the death of

Lady Raffles' eldest brother, who had come to us from

Bengal on a visit. Next followed my dear and eldest boy

Leopold, your godson, the pride and hope of my life ; but

we were perhaps too proud, and we hoped for too much,

and, if so, we have been justly humbled. Our brother-in-

law, Captain Auber, who brought us out to this country,
was the next; and after him, in rapid succession, nearly

Ievery person in India whom could call a friend ; all those

who had been in my confidence in Java : and to close the

Iyear, was myself attacked with a serious and alarming
Iillness, which did not shake off for many months. Lady

Raffles, though not laid up, was in a very precarious state ;

and though her anxiety for me might be of temporary

service in turning her thoughts from former afflictions, it

could not do otherwise than still further reduce her.

   "With the past year, however, we had vainly hoped

that we had overcome our afflictions. We endeavoured

to raise ourselves about Christmas ; but before the 20th
of January two more of my children, my eldest daughter

218  IMPORTANCE OF SINGAPORE.

Charlotte, and my only remaining boy Marsden, were in

the grave ! This blow was almost too much for us. But

we had still one little one left, and embraced the first

opportunity of sending her to a safer climate, where, we

trust in God, she will have duly arrived long before this

reaches you. Our misfortunes did not even end here ; for

I again fell ill, and was confined for nearly two months,

with something very like a brain fever. It is only within

I Ithe last month that have got about at all ; but now

feel myself completely recovered, though much shaken in

constitution. Lady Raffles most fortunately, and unex

pectedly, has kept her health tolerably well ; and if it

pleases God that our afflictions now cease, we will still

look forward to brighter days and better times.

  I" have thus detailed my sorrows, not so much to excite

your commiseration, as to prove to you that it was inca

pacity alone which prevented my writing. It is of no use

Ito brood over misfortunes, and you will am sure be

happy to learn that we have both recovered our usual tone

of mind and spirits ; the body however is weak, and the

only remedy for this is change of climate ; on this also we

Ihave resolved, and hope to reach England early in 1824.

  I" propose going round to Singapore in the course of a

few months, for the purpose of completing all my arrange
ments in that quarter. Its rise still continues to astonish

those who did not at first look deeply. From a statement

of the arrivals and departures, imports, &c., during the
first two years and a half, it appears that, during that

LETTER TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.                    219

period, no less than 2889 vessels have entered at the port,

of which 383 were armed and commanded by Europeans,
and 2506 by natives of independent states, and that their
united tonnage amounted to 161,515 tons.

   " It further appears that the value of merchandise in

native vessels that have entered the Port during the same
period has exceeded five millions of dollars, and that the

imports and exports by ships have not been less than

three millions more, making a gross amount of eight mil
lions of dollars, or nearly 200,000/. sterling.

    " These statements have been forwarded to Europe,
and from this proof of the extent of commercial dealings
at Singapore during the infancy of the establishment, and
whilst it has laboured under many disadvantages, some
estimate may be formed of its real value and importance."

TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

" My dear Cousin,  " Bencoolen, April 17, 1822.

I I" wrote to you so lately by the Borneo, that have

little to add beyond the assurance of my continued esteem

and affection. We have, thank God, recovered very

Imuch of late, and Sophia is quite herself again.  am but

a crazy mortal at best, but on the whole am quite as well

Iin health as have any right to expect in a climate which

is anything but congenial to my constitution.

   "We still hold our determination of quitting India,

*****220 sir Stamford's agricultural exertions.

God willing, for Europe, about the end of next year --
neither of us can last out longer.
I" We now pass our time in great retirement.  have

lately completed a very comfortable country-house, and

Imuch of my time is taken up in agricultural pursuits.

am by far the most active farmer in the country, and as

President of the Agricultural Society, not only take pre

Icedence at the board, but in the field.  have a dozen

I Iploughs constantly going, and before quit the estate,

hope it will realize a revenue of two or three thousand a

year, besides feeding its population. It is an experiment,

but it will encourage others ; and as it is a property which

belongs to the Company, no one can accuse me of inte

Irested views in the efforts which am making. It is pos
Isible that in England may look with interest to the

returns in money which my oats and barley may afford ;

Ibut here am quite satisfied with seeing and collecting
Ithe produce of my industry and exertions.
                                            am culti

vating and improving for the mere love of the thing,

and the desire of employing my time advantageously for

others.                                                       '

   " Our sugar at last succeeds very well, but the disap

pointment in the mills has been great indeed. It was only

Ia few weeks ago that received the letters from Messrs.

Littledale. We then immediately set to work to construct

a mill here as well as we could ; and it has now commenced

sir Stamford's agricultural exertions.  221

to work at the rate of half a ton a day. The sugar is ex

Icellent, and have no doubt the rum will be of equally

good quality. This is the first part of my mechanical

Ioperations, for which take to myself no little credit, con

sidering our want of assistance and experience. We took

our model from the Encyclopaedia.
                            " Adieu, my dear Cousin, &c."

           to .

                                               " Bencoolen, July 25th, 1822.

I" am sure it will be satisfactory to you to know that

both Sophia and myself have become ourselves again : not

that we can forget our past and heavy afflictions, or cease
to mourn over them; but we can now again enjoy the

present hour, and look forward with steadiness and satis

Ifaction.  am not one of that 'Satanic school' who look

upon this world as the hell of some former and past

Icreation, but am content to take it as find firmly be
                           it,
lieving, from all have known and seen, that whatever is,is
is for our good and happiness, and that there actually
           if
more of both, even in this world, than in our consciences
             I
we can think we have deserved. Our health, too, has im
                       if
proved, and in this respect we could remain as we are,

we might risk two or three years more, at least so say our

present feelings, but we must not trust them experiencea:

dictates prudence, and we only hold out till the appointed

time, we shall be satisfied. We have had very sickly

season, and among the casualties are our chaplain and

222 EXPECTED APPOINTMENT OF MR. CANNING.

doctor ; Jack also has been obliged to fly to Batavia for

change of air, and deaths are of daily occurrence in our

small circle : but notwithstanding this we still look up ;

therefore, with the blessing of God, don't despair of seeing

us in 1824.

  I" have long looked for the appointment of Mr. Can
Ining as Governor- General ; and, upon the whole, augur

well of his government, not from any personal views as to

Imyself, but with respect to the public interests, to which

cannot but look with anxiety. My life has hitherto been

a public one ; and long habit, if it is nothing else, has

made the public weal as interesting to me as my own per

Isonal prospects ever can be. Without attending to it

should lose half the interest of my life, so that you must

Inot be surprised if still hold on the same course, even

Ithough may not be able to prove that my interests are

Iadvanced by it. To these never looked primarily, and

I IGod grant never may.  believe, paradoxical as it may

I Iseem to say so, should lose my identity were to cease

to love other things better than myself. It may be a

                         I
                               I it,
wrong turn of mind, but such is the twist of and matured

as now by forty years' growth, fear must change
   it

         I is
myself ere think or act otherwise.
   " Do not, however, do me the injustice to suppose that

I  am overweeningly attached to the things of this world
--am in love with ambition, or suppose can reform the
               a

                     I
                              I

                                 I
world by my endeavours.  think know myself better.

I  would rather be simple unit with the united few who

        EXPECTED ARRIVAL OF MR. CANNING.  223

act rightly and on principle, than a blazing cipher

acting for self and my own nothingness. But a truce to
Ithis.
        hope to be at Singapore by the time Canning

arrives, so that he will find me at my post of danger, and

I yet hope of honour too.

"As for Crawfurd, what you say, to a certain extent,

had now and then presented itself transiently to my mind

Iin the same light ; but you mistake me if you suppose

entertain any unpleasant feeling on the account ; whatever
his faults, he is devoting his mind exclusively to objects

in which my heart and soul are deeply interested. Let

Crawfurd have his swing, the more extended the better ;

in the present times we, perhaps, require such bold and

fearless men. The cloud of ignorance, which still hangs
over England, with regard to the Eastern Islands, cannot
be dissipated by ordinary means, or by dint of reason : it
requires the agency of some of those powerful elements
which, while they disperse, cannot avoid partially de

stroying.

   "Where we differ we shall explain, and longer and

cooler heads may light their matches from the sparks

which we strike out. Two of a trade, they say, can

Inever agree ; and Crawfurd and are, perhaps, running

too much on the same parallel, not now and then to be

jostling each other ; but if in following my steps he

profits by my errors and experience, it will be a satis
faction to me. He writes to me that his views are

I Iturned homewards in 1825, but this don't believe.

224  SIR STAMFORD ON THE STATE OF ENGLAND.

think he expects to return from his cruise about the fall

Iof the next year, and will, have no doubt, convey a fine

collection to the Governor- General : it is not impossible

we may meet.                                                I

  I" observe what you say on the state of the nation.

agree with you, as far as we can perceive from this dis

tance, that things look better. Manufactures and com

merce are certainly improving, and agriculture will come

about in due time. It is very amusing to hear the com

plaints of the ruin of the country in consequence of its

too great riches and abundance. For those who suffer,

Iand they are very many,  feel most sincerely : most

Ideeply do commiserate the wretchedness which must

necessarily be felt by certain classes; and all must be

content to retrograde from the high pitch of ease and

luxury, which were created by an over, but, perhaps,

Inecessary excitement : yet never can bring my mind to

suppose our case desperate, while we not only have more

people, but more food, and more money than we know

Iwhat to do with. Were to land, for the first time, on

some large and highly populous island, and to observe a
similar state of things, what would be my impression ?

Not that it was a ruined, but a badly governed country.

Ours, perhaps, is so circumstanced ; although among the

many quacks and pretenders to heal the diseases of the

Istate, have seen but few whose panacea were worth the

trial. Upon the whole, perhaps, we cannot go on much

better than we are doing : our circumstances have changed,

          CURIOUS FACT RESPECTING A LOAN.                                                                     225

and are still changing, and the great object is to assist

the wheel as it turns round and render this as gradual

Iand imperceptible as possible. Most certainly do think

we have not changed for the worse. Scarcity and high

price never can be better than cheapness and abundance :
for a time, it may serve to gorge the appetites of the few ;
but in the long run, and for the nation at large, it never

can last, but must inevitably end in ruin. Industry and

plain living suit better with good morals, sound under

standing, and, consequently, with the happiness of this

life, and the prospects of the future, than idleness and

luxury, though they were to be bought without the sacri

Ifice of the many to the few.  look highly on the re

Isources of the country, consider them as inexhaustible,

and that the days of our true greatness are now approach

ing. So much for politics.

  " I must not omit to tell you a curious fact : the Java

Government were distressed for money, and proposed to

raise a loan of thirty lacs in Bengal, at from seven to
nine per cent., payable in five years. The terms were
communicated to me, and the loan opened : but there was
a feverish anxiety in Calcutta as to the security of the

Dutch, notwithstanding their power and means in the
East we»> never less equivocal; and the Dutch them

lo

                                    !
                                                               ;

                                       it,
                                                it
                                                           is

                                                                                                           Q
selves thought Letter of and the loan was closed, when,

    and behold the only subscription to the loan, actually
realized, was from me. This has occasioned a reference

to Batavia from Bengal and     odd enough, after all

VOL. 11.

226 sir Stamford's responsible situation.

Iour battlings, that should be found to be the only man

in India who would hear their distress, and trust them

with a penny. This is, at least, an amusing anecdote for
the entertainment of his Netherlands' Majesty, when he

may honour me with another invitation to his palace at

Lacken.

  I" Your letter respecting young M'Lean purposely put

aside to answer, after turning the matter in my thoughts ;

it is a serious matter to direct the destination of a young

I Iman, and, as never like to drop those whom once take
Iup, am anxious to see that all is right in the beginning.

So much depends upon the start, that we cannot be too

cautious.

   " My former letters will have informed you of my

Ipresent plan for going home, and, thank God, the

necessity does not exist for our going in the Layton.

  I I" observe what you say respecting Pulo Nias : must

again refer you to my principles of action, with an assur

Iance that do, and will, to the utmost of my power,

act prudently and cautiously.

  I I" am placed here, as it has been my lot ever since

have been intrusted with a government, to administer

Ithe public affairs according to my best ability.  lose »>

time in informing my superiors of my situation, and the
Icircumstances of the country, and their interests.
                                                     im

Iplore advice, and ask for authority;  receive none;

Iscarce an acknowledgment, and when do, one that
Ionly proves they can never have read what
                                                   have

sir Stamford's responsible situation.  227

written. Year after year rolls on ; the public weal must

be attended to, and time and tide stand still for no man.

How is it possible that a man, having the honour of his

country at heart, and any conscience whatever, can

remain a silent spectator of what is daily getting worse

and worse ? Either he must step in to stop the ruin, or

he must eat the bread of idleness, and pocket the wages
of iniquity ; for they cannot be honestly earned without

the performance of corresponding duties, to say nothing
of the happiness or misery of the thousands and tens of

thousands committed to his charge, and whose destiny

must, in a great measure, be considered in his hands.

   I" receive very kind letters from Mr. Grant and Mr.
IEdward Parry ; have reason to value and esteem them,
Iand am deeply sensible of their kindness.

   I" My hand aches, and must leave off with an apology
Ifor writing you so long a letter ; but, in truth, have not

had time to write a shorter, and, therefore, give you in

haste what comes uppermost. We are all well."

                                                  " Bencoolen, July 26th, 1822.

    " You say our new Deputy Master- Attendant is a
protege of Mr. Robinson, and on this account entitled to

my attentions.

  I I" am not aware that, as yet, am under any obliga

tion to Mr. Robinson, for if report says true, he is most

I Ihostile to me, but for why know not. Be it as it may,

would always rather return good for evil; and, in the

hope that he may one day lay aside his prejudice, and be
                                                                   Q2

228  COMMERCIAL SPECULATIONS AT BENCOOLEN.

open to reason and conviction, you may assure him that I

only regret I am not better known to him. Times may

Ialter as they have once altered, and really  cannot

I Iaccount for much that see and hear ; nevertheless,

shall continue to pursue a straight-forward course, as I

have hitherto done, without swerving to the right or left,

quarrelling with no one."

                                to .

                                                 " Bencoolen, July 2Hth, 1822.

  " I will now reply to your letter respecting young

M'Lean.
   " With industry and perseverance, a good constitution

and frugal habits, there wants but one thing more to

complete the requisites, and that is capital, or credit,

which is the same thing ; without this last, it is chance if

Ithe others have fair play, and with it, think few places
Ioffer better prospects than the spot from whence write

--Bencoolen, where there are most advantageous open

ings for advantageous speculations, in the cultivation and
manufacture of sugar and rum, the culture of coffee,

spices, &c., and where, notwithstanding all its supposed

disadvantages, more may now be done with dollars than
ever could be effected in the West Indies with poands.

    " Commercial speculations are, in a great measure, at a
stand, and Singapore is overstocked with merchants.
They will be too keen for a novice, and in these times it
is quite a science, even for the first houses to know how

      COMMERCIAL SPECULATIONS AT BENCOOLEN.  229

to make mon<;y : the most they can do is to prevent loss.

In Java there are great facilities and advantages, both

for trade and cultivation, particularly the latter, but then

it is under a Dutch government. Of the extent of capital
required, anything from one to five thousand pounds will
answer, but, of course, the more the better. With two or

three thousand pounds to sink in the land at Bencoolen,

I really think a pretty fortune might be made in ten

years, paying back the first capital with a high interest in

three or four.

   " One thing, however, must not on any account be ex
pected either here or at Singapore --there are no appoint
ments to be had --not more than you can pick up in the
streets of London; therefore, everything must depend
upon the party himself, and on his own frugality and

exertions."

                 to .

                 " Bencoolen, September 4th, 1822.

" We  have  had  Ia very sickly season.  am concerned

to say, my inestimable friend Jack still remains in a very

dangerous state, and is obliged to embark in the Layton

Ifor the Cape. In him lose my right hand ; but if he

survives, he will rejoin me in six months, and accompany

us home.

  I I" am afraid shall have a good deal to do at Singa

pore, as the place grows so rapidly, that some important

*****230PEPPER CARGO.

provisions must be made for its internal management and
comfort.

*****I" Sophia, am sorry to say, has had an illness which

has lowered her very much, and makes me very anxious
to get her home. Would to God we were once safe with
you, and out of these enervating regions.
" The idea of a pepper cargo without dead weight is

such a farce, that the Layton has been the laughing

stock to all the private traders, and, were the whole pro

Iceeding to be published,  know of no instance that

*****would expose more ignorance and absurdity in the Com

pany's proceedings as merchants.

  I" am off for Singapore to-morrow, very far from well,

and the change may do us good."

TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

                                     " Bencoolen, September 8th, 1823.

" My dear Sir,

    I" promised myself the satisfaction of writing to

you very fully by the Layton, but illness, and the variety

of detail which must be got through in the few days

Ibetween this and my embarkation for Singapore, will,
Ifear, compel me to be more brief than usual.
                                               still con

tinue to suffer so severely from a nervous affection in my

Ihead, that cannot calculate upon an hour's health;

          LETTER TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.              231

Lady Raffles too is only just recovering from an illness ;
and my invaluable friend, Dr. Jack, is on the eve of em

barking for the Cape as a last hope. Under these cir

cumstances, and the bustle of packing and delivering

over the charge of the settlement for some months, you

Iwill, am confident, make allowances. Your kind letters,

from the 19th of August, 1821, to the 7th of March last,

are now before me, and although there are many points
I Iin them to which could have wished to advert,
                                                  must

be content to notice a few.

   " Your observations on our press are as just as they are

Iliberal ; and only wish it was in my power to convince

you that we have sufficiently profited by them. You

were, of course, aware that my object is rather to excite

others than to come forward myself, and that in our

Ipresent publications  necessarily keep in the back

Iground.  allow nothing to appear as direct from

myself.

*****I I" This will show you that am doing all can to

ascertain the true form of the coast in this quarter.

    " The following is the latest and best information

Iwhich can obtain respecting the Rakan river.
I" must defer our further geographical discoveries till

Ianother opportunity.  enclose you Captain Crisp's cal

culations on the longitude of Bencoolen : we are just

Icommencing with Jupiter's satellites, and shall cer

232  LETTER TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

tainly not allow the present astronomical party to leave

Ithe coast until have laid down all the principal points.
I I" September 14th.
     had written thus far, when was

broken in upon by a host of people, and on business ; and

my time is now so short, that I can do little more than

close this letter, as we embark at daylight to-morrow.

Dr. Jack is still alive, and sails for the Cape this evening,

I Ibut have very little hope for him ; shall feel his loss

most severely, both as a private friend and an able as

sistant, not only in the particular line of natural history,

but in our geographical pursuits. With his assistance

Iand Captain Crisp's,  had commenced our general

Isurvey of Sumatra with some hope of success ; but am

now no longer sanguine of doing much in my own time.
In a country like this, where nothing material of this

nature has been effected, the scope of our operations

seemed naturally to divide itself into three branches :

first, the determining the geographical position of all the

sea-ports and harbours, and the hydrographic delineation

of the line of coast and the adjacent Islands ; in this we

Ihave done, and am happy to say we are still doing a

good deal : secondly, the conducting a series of trian
gles from a measured base, in order to fix the site of

towns, the extent, and direction of the several ranges of

mountains, and the points where the rivers take their

rise ; in this we have gone so far as to lay down a tole
rably extensive base from the tower of Marlborough Fort,

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.                  233

which we purpose to adopt as the leading point, or meri

dian, and to carry on the triangles as far as the eye will

reach from hence ; and, thirdly, the sketching the more

minute topographical details, in which we neither have

wasted nor shall waste our time.

  I" must, however, here close, in the hope that my

health will enable me to take advantage of the leisure of

Ithe voyage to write you more fully.  take the liberty of

presenting Mrs. Marsden with a cask of Bencoolen sugar,
in the hope that she will patronize our manufacture.

The superior authorities will insist that we can neither

manufacture sugar nor grow coffee, though we have

already produced the former of better quality than any
known in the East, and our coffee-gardens are in every

way promising, and the export from Padang alone, during
the last year, exceeded 20,000 peculs. You will observe

that our sugar is muscovado, and not the light article

usually obtained from India; and as the worth of sugar

Imust be in its sweetness, we think we stand high.  am

confident you will give it all the credit it deserves, and

more we do not wish."

                          TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                             " September 14, 1822.
    " The last arrivals have brought us many kind letters

Ifrom you ; and need not attempt to say how truly, and

how deeply, we feel your kindness. The hand of affliction

234 DEATH OF DR. JACK.

has been heavy upon us ; and it is in such times that the
kindness of friends, and of those we love and esteem, is

doubly valued.

  I" did intend to write you a very long letter by this

opportunity ; but illness, and the multiplicity of detail
which crowds upon me at the moment, deprive me of the
leisure of even five minutes. We embark for Singapore

to-morrow morning.

  If I" am able to hold up my head, and use my pen at
Iall, shall certainly avail myself of the leisure of the

voyage to endeavour to make amends for my long silence

Iby writing you a very prosing letter.  will not attempt
*****to say more at present, as you will easily perceive from

Ithe writing that hold my pen with difficulty ; but

though my head fail, my heart never will."

                                            TO .

                                             " Bencoolen, September 15, 1822.

   " We were to have embarked this morning for Singa
pore, but the wind has proved foul, and it was ordained

that we should remain another day, to bury our dear and
invaluable friend, William Jack. Poor fellow ! a finer

head or heart there never was ; and whether as a bosom
friend, or as a scientific assistant, he was to me invalu
able ; he had been long ill, and returned from Java about
a fortnight ago, after an unsuccessful visit for change of

DEPARTURE FOR SINGAPORE.  235

air : we embarked him yesterday morning in the Layton;

for the Cape ; and he died this morning before the ship

weighed her anchor.

  I" am so depressed in spirits, and altogether so incom

petent to the task of writing to his father at this hurried

Imoment, when all is confusion for my embarkation, that
Imust postpone it ; but beg you to assure him, that the

loss is as deeply deplored by his friends here, as it is pos

sible it can be by his family at home ; and that for myself,

I Iam so overwhelmed by the misfortune, that cannot

command myself to enter into particulars. His character

and talents stood deservedly high with all who knew him ;

and if anything can afford relief to a parent in the loss of

such a son, it ought to be the reflection that he has per

formed the course which he was destined to run with

honour and integrity, and that his sphere of usefulness
was as extended as his talents and ability, themselves of

no common order, could command."

                   " Straits of Sunda, off Angier, September 26, 1822.

  I" am happy to say that we are thus far on our way to

Singapore, all well. The melancholy addition to the
number of deaths in our family, by the loss of William
Jack, made us quit the place without much regret ; and
God grant the change of air and scene may work a
favourable change both in our health and spirits.

  " It is indispensable that the ship which comes out for

us should have a poop, as Sophia could not undergo the

236  LETTER TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

voyage below hatches ; indeed, she is so bad a sailor, and
we are both so weak and unfit for a long voyage, that we
sometimes think of making a port-to-port voyage home ;
that is to say, going to the Isle of France, the Cape, St.
Helena, and the Cape de Verd Islands, and stopping at
each place a week or a fortnight to recruit."

                             TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                                     " In the Straits of Banca, Oct. 1, 1822.

    " My dear Cousin,
            " Our correspondence has latterly flagged, though

I hardly know why, except it be that we may neither of

us have had heart or spirit enough to enter on the sad

subjects which have most absorbed our attention. You

Iwill, think, be glad to hear that we have quitted Ben-
Icoolen for a season ; for though still adhere to its

being, on the whole, as healthy as other parts of the East,

the melancholy events which have accumulated in our
own family must produce a contrary impression on all

who look to us with interest and affection. Death, as if

he seemed determined to glut himself to the last, snatched
from us, two days before we sailed, another member of
our family, my invaluable and highly respected friend, Dr.
Jack ; he had supplied the place of Dr. Arnold, and all

my future views in life were intimately blended with the
plans and projects which we had formed. He was to have

accompanied me to England, and his death has left a
blank which will not be easily or speedily filled up.

MORTALITY AT BENCOOLEN.  237

  I" am now on my passage to Singapore, accompanied

by Sophia and her youngest brother ; and my plan is to
remain there about six months, with the view of arranging

and modelling something like a constitution for the place,

and transferring its future management to a successor.
Should God spare our lives, we then look to return to
Bencoolen for the purpose of winding up ; and then,

about the end of the year, if it be not too presumptuous

to look forward so far after what has passed, we contem

plate the prospect of revisiting old England. At all

events, no views of ambition will weigh with us beyond
that period ; and, considering the precarious state of our

health, and the many ties at home, it seems in the natural
course of things that we should then take this step.

   " Among the numerous deaths which have occurred at

Bencoolen, we have lost no less than three doctors, and
our worthy chaplain, Mr. Winter, whose widow and family
are now on their way to England. As the advance of
good principles so essentially depends on the character of
the pastor, and particularly at Bencoolen, where there is
only one of our Establishment, and his union with the

IMissionaries is so essential, am not a little interested in

the choice that may be made of a successor. He will be

appointed from home, and, most likely, become known to

Iyou before his departure. This, think, would be advan

tageous, particularly with reference to future correspon

Idence after may leave the country. Of all places, a ship

 is the worst for application, or even for writing a letter, for

238  APPOINTMENT OF A CHAPLAIN TO BENCOOLEN.

there is always something going on, and generally what

Iis annoying either one way or the other.  am subject to

constant interruptions, and am at this moment obliged

to break off my letter.

  I I" again resume the pen, though have little to add,

except a farewell."

CHAPTER XVIII.

Arrival at Singapore -- Description of the settlement -- Grounds of
  right to its retention -- Occupation at Singapore-- Selection of site
 for college-- Value of land -- Contrast of Bencoolen and Singapore
   --Number of vessels arrived in the first two years and a half --Bun
  galow on Singapore hill --Botanic garden-- Description of plant
   described by Dr. Finlayson-- Mission to Bali --Drawing up laws
  and regulations for the settlement -- Magistrates -- Memorial
  against slavery -- Resolution of the Bengal Government -- Instruc
   tions to Mr. Crawfurd --Addresses from the inhabitants -- Singa
  pore the only place in India where slavery cannot exist -- Leave

   Singapore--'Touch at Batavia -- Correspondence with the Baron

   Van de Capellan.

The pleasure of witnessing the increasing prosperity of a

settlement which he had himself formed, in which he was

hailed as a benefactor, and welcomed as a friend by all
ranks and classes, raised the spirit which sorrow had de
pressed; and Sir Stamford's heart again expanded with
the hope of happiness, and rejoiced in the consciousness
of possessing the power of diffusing civilization and bless
ings around him.

                          to                   .
"We landed yesterday,
                              " Singapore, October 1 1th, 1822.

                              Iand have once more esta

blished my head-quarters in the centre of my Malayan

240        ARRIVAL AT SINGAPORE.

Ifriends.  have just time to say thus much, more you

shall have soon and often : in the meantime you will be

glad to know that I feel sufficient health and strength to

Ido all wish. The coldest and most disinterested could

not quit Bencoolen, and land at Singapore, without sur
prise and emotion. What, then, must have been my

feelings, after the loss of almost everything that was dear

to me on that ill-fated coast ? After all the risks and

dangers to which this my almost only child had been ex
posed, to find it grown and advanced, beyond measure and

even my warmest anticipations and expectations, in im

portance, wealth, and interest --in every thing that can

give it value and permanence ?

  I I" did feel when left Bencoolen that the time had
Ipassed when could take much active interest in Indian
I Iaffairs, and wished myself safe home; but already

feel differently ; I feel a new life and vigour about me ; and

if it please God to grant me health, the next six months

Iwill, hope, make some amends for the gloom of the

last sixteen.
   " Rob me not of this my political child, and you may yet

see me at home in all my wonted spirits, and with an elas
ticity about me which will bear me up against all that

party spirit can do to depress me.

  I" have not time to write to any one else, therefore let

all friends know that we are well, and again, Heaven

be praised, in the land of the living. Sophia is quite

well.

          LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.      241

   " Mary Anne and her child are well also, and in our
hearts we sing, ' Oh be joyful in the Lord.' "

          TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                       " ' Singapore, November 30, 1822.

I" am sure you will congratulate us in having escaped

from Bencoolen with our lives, after the rapid succession

of miseries which we experienced there. To close the

Imelancholy list of casualties in my own family, have

to add the loss of my most excellent, valued friend, Dr.
Jack. He was carried off the day before we sailed from

Bencoolen.

   " We have already experienced the benefit of change of

scene and climate ; and the prosperous state of this rising

colony has made amends for the dull and sombre views

which we have left. Here all is life and activity ; and it

would be difficult to name a place on the face of the globe
with brighter prospects or more present satisfaction. In

little more than three years it has risen from an insigni

ficant fishing-village, to a large and prosperous town, con

taining at least 10,000 inhabitants of all nations, actively

engaged in commercial pursuits, which afford to each and

all a handsome livelihood, and abundant profit. There

are no complaints here of want of employment, no de
ficiency of rents, or dissatisfaction at taxes. Land is

rapidly rising in value, and instead of the present number

of inhabitants, we have reason to expect that we shall have

at least ten times as many before many years have passed,

VOL. II.                                      it

242 ESTABLISHES A CONSTITUTION FOR SINGAPORE.

This may be considered as the simple, but almost magic
result of that perfect freedom of trade which it has been

my good fortune to establish.

   " We are daily looking for accounts of the arrival of

our new Governor-General ; and it is not improbable he

may bring out final instructions respecting this place, as
Ifar as concerns the questions with the Dutch.
                                                have,

Ihowever, very little uneasiness on the subject, as think

it now nearly impossible to dispossess us ; and the time

Ifor my going home now draws so nigh, that shall be

able to fight the battle out in England, upon more equal

Iground than have been obliged to do here.

*****I" could fill a volume with new matter, on new people,

Inew manners, and new countries, but must be content
Ito hold my tongue until have the gratification of telling

you all my long stories in person.
  I" am at present engaged in establishing a constitution
Ifor Singapore, the principles of which will, hope, ensure

its prosperity. The utmost possible freedom of trade and

equal rights to all, with protection of property and person,

Iare the objects to be attained, and shall spare no pains

to establish such laws and regulations as may be most

Iconducive to them. In Java had to remodel, and in

doing so to remove the rubbish and encumbrances of two

Icenturies of Dutch mal-administration --here have an
Ieasier task --and the task is new. In Java had to look

principally to the agricultural interests, and the commer

         LETTER TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.  243

cial only so far as they were connected with them ; here,

on the contrary, commerce is everything, agriculture only

in its infancy. The people are different as well as their

I Ipursuits.
         assure you stand much in need of advice,

Iand were it not for Lady Raffles should have no coun

Isellor at all. She is nevertheless a host to me, and if

do live to see you again, it will be entirely owing to her

Ilove and affection : without this should have been cast

Ifaway long ago.  it please God we have health, we hope

to pass the next two months pleasantly enough in this

interesting occupation.
   " The only amusing discovery which we have recently

made is that of a sailing fish, called by the natives ikan

layer, of about ten or twelve feet long, which hoists a

mainsail, and often sails in the manner of a native boat,

Iand with considerable swiftness.  have sent a set of the

sails home, as they are beautifully cut, and form a model

for a fast-sailing boat--they are composed of the dorsal

fins of the animal, and when a shoal of these are under sail

together, they are frequently mistaken for a fleet of native

boats."

         TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,    " Singapore, Nov. 30, 1822.

         I" You will, am sure, be glad to learn that we

have derived every advantage from change of scene and

climate which we calculated upon, and that both Lady

Raffles and myself have daily improved in health and

                                                r2

244 DEATH OF DR. JACK.

spirits since our arrival here. The last blow reserved for

us at Bencoolen was the death of my most valued friend,

IDr. Jack, and great indeed has been the loss which have

sustained by this event. Poor fellow, we had become so

intimate, and our future plans had become so interwoven

Iwith each other's views in life, that could not have felt
IIthe loss of a brother more than did his. But must

not get into a melancholy train of thought, and will drop

the subject till we meet.

  I" Of Singapore could of course say a good deal ; but
Iwhen say that it is going on as prosperously as possible,
I Iyou will infer much of what would communicate.

have nearly got over the job of undoing, and am steadily

going on in the establishment of something like a consti

tution for the place, on the principle of establishing it

permanently as a free port in every sense of the word.

The active spirit of enterprise which prevails among all

Iclasses is truly astonishing, and, for its extent, believe I

may safely say that no part of the world exhibits a busier
scene than the town and environs of Singapore. The

Dutch have been obliged to take off their duties at Java

and elsewhere on native prows, and as far as appearances

go, they seem to see the necessity of adopting a more

Iliberal system throughout.  am sorry, however, to say

that. a recent act, in which they were the principals, is

perhaps as disgraceful and abominable over a defenceless

woman, as ever was committed by a civilized nation.

FIRE AT CANTON.  245

    " The details of the destructive fire which has taken
place in China will reach you through the public prints ;

I will therefore only notice that the whole of the factories,

English and foreign, with two exceptions, and upwards of

 12,000 Chinese houses, including six belonging to the

Hong merchants, were burnt to the ground between the
first and third instant, and that the fire was by no means

extinguished on the twentieth, when our last accounts
came away. The whole of the Company's woollens of
the season, worth about 400,000?. have been destroyed,

and about five hundred tons of tea --700,000 dollars were

fortunately saved from the Company's treasury, but

nothing else from the factory, and the supercargoes have
for the most part lost everything but the clothes on their
backs. This will occasion some long faces in Leadenhall-
street, but it will set the manufacturers at work to supply
the woollens lost.

   " You will no doubt have heard of Crawfurd's mission
to Siam and Cochin China. He has failed in the es

sential objects of his mission, but has had the means of
collecting a good deal of information respecting the
countries he has visited, which will afford him the oppor
tunity of writing a very interesting book or two. He was

Iwith me last week on his return to Bengal, and had the

opportunity of entering fully into the subject. At Siam
he was detained five months. The King received him in

the first instance, but all his communications subsequently
were with an officer of the second rank below the sove

246  MISSION TO SIAM AND COCHIN CHINA.

reign ; and the only acknowledgment he could obtain of
the Governor-General's letter, was a short reply from an
officer of the third rank, specifying the duties and regula
tions of the port ; but which was no sooner delivered
than the terms were broken, and the first act after Craw

ford's departure was to seize the supercargo, Captain, and
part of the crew of an English vessel, and to beat and
knock them about till they had nearly deprived them of
life ; afterwards putting them in irons and treating them
with a barbarity which would disgrace savages : and this
purposely as an insult to our embassy, and to show their
contempt of our power.

   " At Cochin China he met with a somewhat better
reception personally, but the King would not grant him

an audience, or receive the letter from the Governor-
General at all. The reason assigned was its not coming
from a crowned head, and that a similar letter from

France had not been received. A certificate from one

of the mandarins, that we should be allowed to trade on
the same terms as the French, was all that Crawford

could obtain.

  " It does not seem that there is any foreign European

influence at either court, prejudicial to our political or
national interest ; and Crawford seems to think they are
both too jealous to admit of any. They have undoubt
edly great apprehensions of any European power gaining
a footing among them ; and nothing could equal the strict
manner in which the embassy was watched at Cochin

China.

MISSION TO SIAM AND COCHIN CHINA.  247

   " Siam proves to be fully as rich a country as we sup
posed. Its population is estimated at six millions, of

which one-sixth may be Chinese, and nearly one-half the
whole are included at the districts of Lao, the other half

occupying Lower Siam. The produce in sugar, pepper,
&c. &c., is immense; and the tonnage on junks which
annually enter the Minam is not estimated at less than
40,000 tons ; of these, eighteen or twenty of the largest
junks belong to the King, who, with the court, monopo
lizes all the foreign trade of this country. The value of
this junk trade is so important to the King and all con
cerned in it, that they are naturally averse to the admis
sion of our shipping, to its supercession, and perhaps

destruction ; and this circumstance added to the despotic
nature of the Government, its jealousy and general bad
character, seem to preclude the hope of our enjoying a
direct trade to any extent, by means of our own shipping.

We must be satisfied with the entrepot which we have

established at Singapore, whither their junks regularly
come with a large portion of the produce of the country a
and can afford to sell it at a lower rate than foreigners
can procure the same articles in Siam itself; and now
under the protection of the British flag the exchange
must take place. In the extension of this trade, the
King and his court are so much interested, that he will
in a manner feel dependent on us for the accommodation

and protection afforded.

   " The richest province of Lower Siam seems to be

248  LETTER TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

Chantibun, on the eastern side of the gulph. It is said

to export upwards of 80,000 peculs of pepper in a year.
    " On his way to Cochin China, Crawfurd touched at

Saigun, the capital of Lower Cochi, and situated on the

northern bank of the Camboja river. This place he de
scribes as full of activity and produce, and abounding
with Chinese, who seemed anxious for a more general

intercourse with us. Cochin China is a poor country
comparatively with Siam ; but the principal value of our
connexions with it seems to be with reference to the

channel which it may afford for a more extensive inter
course with several of the provinces of the Chinese.

  I" For further details must refer you to Crawfurd's

book when published, or beg of you to await my arrival

Iin England, as am ashamed to lengthen this letter

further."

                             TO W. MARSDEN, ESQ.

                                          " Singapore, November 30th, 1822.

I" My plan is to resign Singapore as soon as can

make arrangements for the appointment of a successor.

I I" Since                    have caught no less than
     have been here

six duyongs (the animal described by Valentin, and so
long talked of as the mermaid), some as large as nine feet

two inches. A full-grown female is now under the dis

secting knife, so that the natural history of this extraor

dinary animal is likely to be better known than any of the

other cetae.                  omitted to take either the
    " Crawfurd's astronomers

LETTER TO T. MURDOCH, ESQ.  249

latitude or longitude of Bankok, the present capital o

Siam, although they were there upwards of four months.

The most remarkable production which they fell in with

was a large potato or yam (a species of menispermum)

weighing no less than four hundred and eighty pounds

avoirdupois ! This is a match for my great flower.

ICrawford carried up two duyongs from hence, and have

now three, ready prepared for England.

   " We are making some advances towards a general

Isurvey of Singapore and the adjacent Islands; and am
Ihappy to say have succeeded at last in getting a very

correct survey of the eastern coast of Sumatra from

IDiamond Point down to the Carimons. By the time

return to Bencoolen, I trust my astronomical party at the

Line will have done something ; and, at all events, 1 hope

I Ishall have it in my power to show you that have not

been idle.

   "You will be surprised to hear that a considerable

quantity of the finest benjamin is produced in Lao, about

the latitude of 15° or 16°, if not more.

    " My hand is rather unsteady from my late illness,

Itherefore excuse my scrawl, which am almost ashamed

to send."

TO T. MURDOCH, ESQ.

" My dear Sir,  " Singapore, December 4th, 1822.

        " I am afraid you will accuse me of neglect in not
writing to you for so long a period, but I must tell the

250  BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF CHANGE OF SCENE.

Itruth, and rely on your kindness.  have not been able

to bring myself to the point since the loss of my dear boy,

Leopold, and even now feel a reluctance in doing so,

Iwhich can hardly overcome. The loss of that dear boy,

in whom all our hopes were centred, has indeed been a

severe blow ; and the rapid succession in which our other

darlings have been swept from us has been almost too

Imuch to bear. But, thank God, the worst is past ; and

though we may have hardened our hearts a little in order

Ito get over it, will yet hope that there is as much hap

piness left for us in this world as we deserve to enjoy.

We were, perhaps, too happy, too proud of our blessings ;

and, if we had not received this severe check, we might

not sufficiently have felt and known the necessity of an

hereafter. The Lord's will be done, and we are satisfied.

  I" You will, am sure, congratulate us on our removal

from Bencoolen. Only two days before we left it we lost

another member of our family, my inestimable friend, Dr.
Jack. This blow was reserved till the last, but it has not

been the less severe. Poor fellow, we have lost in him

Ione of the clearest heads and warmest hearts ever met

with ; but death has so assailed us in every quarter within

I Ithe last year, that hardly yet know or feel all that

have lost.

   " We have been here nearly two months, and the

change of air and scene has done us great good. Lady

Raffles in particular has greatly recovered both in her

Ihealth and spirits, and am myself very sensibly better,

            PROSPEROUS STATE OF SINGAPORE.                251

though still occasionally dreadfully oppressed with head

aches.

   " Public report speaks so favourably of this place, that

I cannot well say more about without subjecting myself
                         it it,
to the charge of egotism, for is, indeed, everything      II

could wish, and rising and improving in every way fullyis

equal to my expectations. It at least a child of my

own and now that am in other respects childless,
;           I
              I
may perhaps be indulged with this and can assure you
                         it
                                      ;
                                  I

                                                       a
that the interest take in cheers many day that

would otherwise be gloomy and sad enough in reflections

on the past.

   " am now busy in allotting the lands and laying out
II
     Ithe several towns, defining rights, and establishing powers

and rules for their protection and preservation.          have
                                     I
                                                I
been a good deal impeded, but the task, though an ardu

ous and serious one,   not one that find unpleasant.
            is
                   is
What feel most the want of good counsel and advice,

and of sufficient confidence in my own experience and

judgment to lay down so broad and permanent foun
dation as could wish. have already up wards of 10,000
                      I                     I
                                                       a
souls to legislate for, and this number will, doubt not,
be increased during the next year. The enterprise and

activity which prevails are wonderful, and the effects of a

free-trade and liberal principles have operated like magic.
But that the past prosperity of the place may not prove

            requires that be the more careful in what
I
                   it

                             if

                           I
ephemeral,

do for the future; for the past, under all our.uncer

252  PROSPEROUS STATE OF SINGAPORE.

tainty of possession, has so far exceeded my expectations,

what may not be calculated upon hereafter, when our

principles are better understood, when our possession is

considered secure, and when British capital and enterprise
come into full and fair play !

   " My sister and Captain Flint are here, and it is no
small gratification for us to be with them. Flint is

anxious to testify his recollection of your kindness and

attention, and proposes sending you by the first oppor
tunity the skeleton of an enormous ape, standing about

five feet six, lately obtained from Borneo.
   " We are overwhelmed with duyongs. While writing

Ithis am informed of the arrival of another, which makes
Ithe seventh since have been here.

   " Lady Raffles will write to Mrs. Murdoch very soon.

IShe pleads the same excuse for her silence that have

done for mine. The kindness of yourself and family has

induced such a feeling on our part, that we calculate upon

your sympathy in all our misfortunes."

                                  to .

                                                  " Singapore, December 10, 1822.

   " My time is at present engaged in remodelling and
laying out my new city, and in establishing institutions
and laws for its future constitution; a pleasant duty
enough in England, where you have books, hard heads,
and lawyers to refer to, but here by no means easy, where
all must depend on my own judgment and foresight.

VALUE OF LAND AT SINGAPORE.  253

INevertheless hope, that though Singapore may be the

first capital established in the nineteenth century, it will

not disgrace the brightest period of it.
   " You will be surprised to hear of the value of land

here. A few spots of ground hitherto considered of no

value, and passed over by the local resident, sold in the

course of an hour for upwards of 50,000 dollars. You

Iwill perceive that have been very cautious in wording

the grants of land, so as not to alarm the anti-colonists at

home.

   " We have heard nothing of the Borneo since her leav

ing the Cape, and are looking out most anxiously for news

of our dear child. Sophia's patience is almost exhausted,

Iand her spirits begin to flag, but thank God she is
Iagain in excellent health, and better than have seen her

for the last two years. The hope of getting away from
this country the end of the year buoys us both up, and

enables us to get on from day to day with something like

satisfaction.

  I" have been very severely attacked since my arrival

here, and it would be madness to think of remaining in

I Ithe country a day longer than the time have limited.

must remain here till April or May, and be at Bencoolen

in June to meet and despatch the Indiaman.
   " Nothing can be more striking than the contrast be

tween the two settlements.  At Bencoolen the public

expenses are more in one month than they are at Singa
pore in twelve. The capital turned at Bencoolen never

254       LETTER TO REV. DR. RAFFLES.

exceeds 400,000 dollars in a year, and nearly the whole of
this is in Company's bills on Bengal, the only returns
that can be made ; at Singapore, the capital turned in a
year exceeds eight millions, without any government bills
or civil establishment whatever."

     EXTRACT OF A LETTER TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                                                    " Singapore, January 12, 1823.

   " My dear Cousin,

       I" Since my arrival here have received two letters

from you of rather ancient date ; but they remind me

Ithat am very much your debtor in the way of corre

spondence ; and if my health admitted it, should not long

be so. As it is, you must be satisfied with a few lines, the

doctor prohibiting me from writing more.
   " The progress of my new settlement is in every way

most satisfactory, and it would gladden your heart to
witness the activity and cheerfulness which prevail
throughout ; every day brings us new settlers, and Sin
gapore has already become a great emporium. Houses
and warehouses are springing up in every direction, and

the inland forests are fast giving way before the indus

Itrious cultivator.  am now engaged in marking out the

towns and roads, and in establishing laws and regulations
for the protection of person and property. We have no
less than nine mercantile houses (European), and there is
abundant employment for capital as fast as it accu

mulates.

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.                  255

  I" Both Sophia and have improved in health since our
Iarrival here, but still feel myself so weak and broken

Idown in constitution, that it will be as much as can do

to hold out for the year. My principal attack is in the

Ihead, and for days together am nearly distracted, and
Ialmost unconscious of what am doing.

   " The death of my friend, Dr. Milne, of Malacca, has

for a time thrown a damp on missionary exertions in this

Iquarter, but expect Dr. Morrison, of China, to visit this

Iplace in March, and hope to make some satisfactory

arrangement with him for future labours. The two mis

sionaries who are here are not idle. Messrs. Milton and

Thompson, the former in Chinese and Siamese, and the

Ilatter in Malay and English printing.  have selected a

Ispot for my intended college ; and all now require is a

good head-master or superintendent. It is my intention

to endow it with lands, the rents of which will cover its

Iordinary expenses.  am also about to commence upon a

church, the plan of which is already approved.
                                                 " Believe me, &c."

                TO MR. MARSDEN.

" My dear Sir,       " Singapore, January 21, 1 823.

I" By a statement    forwarded to the Court of

Directors in February last, it was shown that, during the

first two years and a half of this establishment, no less

than two thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine vessels

entered and cleared from the port, of which three hun

256              TRADE OF S1NGAPORE.

dred and eighty-three were owned and commanded by

Europeans, and two thousand five hundred and six by

natives, and that their united tonnage was one hundred

and sixty-one thousand tons. It appeared also, that the

value of merchandise in native vessels arrived and cleared

amounted to about five millions of dollars during the

same period, and in ships not less than three millions,

giving a total amount of about eight millions as the

capital turned.

I" This statement  thought very favourable ; but I

have now the satisfaction of forwarding to the same

authority official statements, from which the following

results appear for the year 1822, a detailed and accurate

account having been kept during that period of the trade

of the place :--
   " Total amount of tonnage, importing and exporting,

one hundred and thirty thousand six hundred and eighty-

nine.

   " Total value of imports and exports in the year 1822,

eight millions five hundred and sixty-eight thousand one

hundred and seventy-two.
   " Nearly the whole of this trade is carried on by a bor

rowed capital, for which interest is paid from nine to

twelve per cent, per annum ; and it is not a little remark

able, that since the establishment of the settlement, now

four years, "not a single ship has arrived from England,

notwithstanding European goods are in constant demand.

All British manufactures that heretofore found their way

                TRADE OF SINGAPORE.                                           257

into the settlement have come by circuitous routes, and

with heavy charges of freight and duties at other ports
added to their invoice value. No less than four free

traders loaded home from Singapore last year ; and

Ithe Venelia, by which                       send this, now goes home

with a full and valuable cargo of sugar, pepper, tin,

tortoise-shell, &c. ; and we could load half a dozen

more ships in the course of the season were they

here*.

  " It being a great object to establish the freedom and

Iindependence of the port on a solid foundation, take

the liberty of enclosing you copies of several regulations

I have recently passed for the registry of land, the rules

of the port, and the establishment of a local magistracy,

in the hope that you will consider them applicable to the

peculiar circumstances of Singapore. Land has already

assumed a high value, and a few lots of about sixty feet

front, in a convenient situation for mercantile purposes,
realized at public sale upwards of fifty thousand dollars in

the course of half an hour. Small lots in the outskirts of

the town, of only eighteen feet front, are bought and sold

by the Chinese as high as seventy or eighty dollars each,

   * It may be interesting to compare the relative trade at Singapore,

Penang, and Malacca. The following is the value of the Exports and
Imports in the year 1827-8 : --

Singapore.      IMPORTS.       Malacca.      Singapore.    EXPORTS.           Malacca.

     dollars .    Penang.          dollars.      dollars.    Penang.             dollars.
                               1,266.090     13,872,010.                      7,918,163.
14,885,999           dollars.                                    dollars.
                                                            5,586,707.
                6,437,042.

VOL. 11.                                                                   s

258 TRADE OF SINGAPORE.

at the same time that they pay an annual quit rent of

eight dollars to government.

  I" have established a revenue, without any tax what

ever on the trade, which more than covers all civil dis

bursements, and which must annually increase in future

years, while these disbursements should remain the same.

  I" give you these outlines, knowing how much interest

you take in the settlement, and how satisfactory they will

be to you. We yet remain without any accounts as to

Ithe final decision in Europe, but cannot bring my mind

to suppose that it will be unfavourable.
   " We have lately built a small bungalow on Singapore

Hill, where, though the height is inconsiderable, we find a

great difference of climate. Nothing can be more inte

Iresting and beautiful than the view from this spot.  am

happy to say the change has had a very beneficial effect

on my health, which has been better during the last fort

Inight than have known it for two years before. The

tombs of the Malay kings, are, however, close at hand ;

I Iand have settled that if it is my fate to die here, shall

take my place amongst them : this will, at any rate, be

Ifbetter than leaving one's bones at Bencoolen.  it please

God, we still live in the hope of embarking for Europe

towards the end of the year.

 I" am laying out a botanic and experimental garden, and

it would delight you to see how rapidly the whole country

is coming under cultivation. My residence here has

naturally given much confidence, and the extent of

LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  259

the speculations entered into by the Chinese quite
astonishes me."

TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                    " Singapore, January 23, 1823.

  I" Since last wrote to your Grace, about a month ago,

I have had another very severe attack in my head, which

nearly proved fatal, and the Doctors were for hurrying

me on board ship for Europe without much ceremony.

IHowever, as could not reconcile myself to become food for
Ifishes, preferred ascending the hill of Singapore, where, if

my bones must remain in the East, they would have the

honour of mixing with the ashes of the Malayan kings ; and

Ithe result has been, that instead of dying, have almost
Ientirely recovered. have built a very comfortable house,

which is sufficient to accommodate my sister's family as

Iwell as our own ; and only wish you were here but for

half an hour, to enjoy the unequalled beauty and interest
of the scene. My house, which is one hundred feet front,

and fifty deep, was finished in a fortnight from its com

mencement. When will your cottage be done ?
   " We have been a long time without news from Europe,

and as yet have had no account of the arrival of our dear

little girl. God grant she may have reached England in

safety. She is now our only one, and any accident to this

our last and only remaining hope and consolation, would

be severe indeed.                a companion for my
                                              s2
   "We have recently discovered

260 MISSIONARIES AT SINGAPORE.

great flower, in a noble orchideous plant, which will
shortly be described by Mr. Finlayson and my friend
Dr. Wallich, the latter of whom has taken several growing
specimens to Calcutta, in the hope of getting them to

England. It grows parasitically on rocks, or roots, in

several of the islands in the Straits of Malacca, and the
stems are as thick as a man's wrist, and from six to ten
feet long, without branches, at the extremity of which
they produce abundance of leaves. But the wonder is,
its magnificent inflorescence, which forms an erect spike
six feet high, with upwards of one hundred large- spreading
brown and white chequered fragrant flowers, between two
and three inches in diameter."

TO T. A HANKEY, ESQ., TREASURER TO THE LONDON

             MISSIONARY SOCIETY.

" Dear Sir,  " Singapore, January 23, 1823.

I" Since my return to Singapore, have had occasion

to notice the very zealous and successful exertions of the

Rev. C. H. Thompson, settled at this place as a mission

ary in connexion with your Society. His acquirements in

the Malay language are considerable, and he has succeeded

in establishing a Malay school of from twenty to thirty

pupils, several of whom he has converted to Christianity.

He has also a small portable press, with Roman and Malay

types. Considering his means and the circumstances of
the place, he has already done more than could be ex

MISSIONARIES AT SINGAPORE.  261

pected ; and, at any rate, laid a good foundation for future

Ilabours. have given the necessary permission for the erec

tion of a Malay chapel.
   " The proposal of a mission to Bali seems to me to

deserve attention. The Dutch have no influence in that

island, and Mahomedanism has made but little or no pro
gress in it. The population is estimated at between half

Ia million and a million ; and am not aware that a mis

sionary, properly qualified, would find many obstacles to

his establishment. He should, however, in the first

instance, come to Singapore to study the language, and
become acquainted with the manners and character of the

people. 'He must be content to suffer some privations,
and to overcome some difficulties, at the outset ; but if he

has temper and a good constitution, the spirit of the good
cause should carry him through it with satisfaction and

credit."

                                 to .

                                                " Singapore, January 23, 1823.

  I" am anxious to interest you in favour of our missionary

labourers, and particularly in support of the Rev. C. H.
Thomson, who is established here, in connexion with the
London Missionary Society. His means have been very

limited, but he has done a good deal, and is making a
sure and steady progress. He has made several converts

and established a very respectable school.

  I" have written home to the Secretary of the Society,

262              RAPID PROGRESS OF SINGAPORE.

recommending their sending out to him two printing-

presses. Pray support this recommendation, if you have

Iany interest with the Society, as look with great confi

dence to the influence of a well-conducted press in this
part of the East, and the superintendence can never be

*****better placed than in the hands of the missionaries.
   " We have also proposed a mission to Bali, and some

other measures."

                 TO DR. WALL1CH.

                                                    " Singapore, February 8, 1 823.

   " You would hardly know the south bank of the river
again. From the point, as far as the small nullah, all is

in active improvement. Messrs. Mackenzie, Napier, and
Scott, Che Sang, and others, are building substantial ware

houses, according to an approved plan; and two high-

streets are forming from the river, through the centre of
the Chinese town, to the sea. The bridge, too, is in great

forwardness ; and in two months more the whole plan for
that side of the water will be so far proceeded upon, that

my successor cannot help following it up.

I"The botanic garden goes on well.             am now em

ployed in laying out the walks, and stones are collected

for the foundation of a handsome rail-way round it.

  I" shall soon become anxious about the arrangements

of this place."

           LETTER TO DR. WALLICH.     263

                        TO .

                                                   " Singapore, February 26, 1823.

   " We are still without accounts respecting our dear
little one, although the papers announce the arrival of the
Borneo, and letters as late as the 20th August have been

received.

I" It is impossible that can leave this place under its

present circumstances.  I have no one about me to put in

I Icharge of it, on whom could rely.  have had, and still

have, much to do in remodelling almost everything, so

that my time is fully taken up, and the days pass more

Iquickly than expected. Thank God, both Sophia and
I keep our health much better than we expected, and we

only pray that we may so continue till the end of the

year ; then, if it pleases God, we will make an attempt to

join you in the land of our fathers."

                                     TO DR. WALLICH.

                                                  " Singapore, March 8, 1823.

      " My dear Friend,

        I" snatch a few minutes to thank you for your

kind and welcome letter of the 10th of January, and con

gratulate you most sincerely on your return to the bosom
of your family, and the delights of your second Eden.

   " It will be satisfactory to you to learn, that notwith

standing the delays attending the wet season, my job

here is nigh accomplished, the ground being raised as far

264 ABOLITION OF SLAVKKT AT SINGAPORE.

as the small nullah, and the new warehouses rising in

every direction.
   " Your principles are too pure, and your heart too

warm, to encounter the shafts of ridicule, which envy and

malice may fling at you. These are the weapons of the
heartless and unprincipled -- of those who have no sym

pathy with the feelings of others, no consideration for their

happiness, no common feelings for the common benefit of

mankind. Never mind, magna est Veritas et prevalebit,

and truth is virtue. You must recollect my warning.

We live in a strange world. Unfortunately in the poli

tical part of it we are often obliged to smother feelings.

I IThis say in my own defence, lest you should think do

not sufficiently espouse your cause. My heart and soul

are with you and for you, and therefore you may judge

Ihow feel.

   " The magistrates have commenced operations with

great prudence and judgment; their first presentation

was upon the arrangement of the town.

" The second came in yesterday in the shape of a me

morial against slavery -- the slave-master and slave-debtor

system --which seems to have been permitted here to an

Iunlimited extent.  have not yet finally decided upon

Ithe question, but am much inclined to think the wisest

Iand safest plan will be to do in this as did in the lands,

annul all that has gone before. This establishment was

formed long after the enactments of the British legisla

ture, which made it felony to import slaves into a British

          SINGAPORE INSTITUTION.  265

colony, and both importers and exporters are alike guilty,
to say nothing of the British authority who countenanced

the trade. The acknowledgment of slavery in any shape
in a settlement like Singapore, founded on principles so

diametrically opposed to the admission of such a practice,

is an anomaly in the constitution of the place, which

Icannot, think, be allowed to exist. But of this more

hereafter.

  I" am now in negociation with Dr. Morrison for the

transfer of the Anglo- Chinese College from Malacca to

this place, and its union with my proposed Malay College,

under the general designation of the 'Singapore Insti

tution.'  ****

I" notice your request about my book (History of

Java), and shall most heartily and willingly meet your

wishes. The book itself was a hasty performance, and I

have often been ashamed of it ; but the true circum

stances under which it was written are stated in the pre

Iface, and all the world must know that am no book

maker.

I" shall write to your excellent friend General Hard-

Iwicke by the present opportunity, if can snatch a few

Imoments of time.  feel most grateful for his kind and

Igenerous attachment, and beseech you to say, from me

Ito him, all and everything that with such feelings ought

Ito say.  have indeed a warm and affectionate regard for

him, and to tell you the truth, 1 love you both ; and what

Ican say more ? "

26G  ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIVE COLLEGE.

                                               TO .

                                                  " Singapore, April 14, 1823.
   " Yesterday brought us our letters and packets up to
the 30th of August, and truly satisfactory have they been
to us. The accounts of our dear child, the welfare of all,

have been most gratifying, and we return thanks to God

for the blessings we have received.

  I" have lately had two or three severe attacks, but am

getting over them, and Sophia is improving. She is to be
confined in October, and in January we hope to start for

England.

  I" am anxiously looking out for Crawfurd to take
Icharge here, that may proceed to Bencoolen, where my

presence is urgently required, Mackenzie, my deputy,

Ihaving been obliged to fly on account of ill health.

hope to be there by June.

  I" have had two very kind letters from Mr. Edward

Parry and Mr. Money, pledging themselves to support

my claims.

  I" am now engaged with my valuable friend Dr. Mor

rison, of China, in rearing and establishing an institution
at Singapore, for the cultivation of Chinese and Malayan

literature, and for the moral and intellectual improvement

of the Archipelago, and the surrounding countries. It

will be my last public act. Singapore continues to thrive

and expand."

LETTER TO DR. WALLICH.    267

TO DR. WALLICH.

                                                   " Singapore, April 17, 1823.

   " My health is upon the whole much the same as when
you left us --not over good at any time, and at others

Imiserable ; nevertheless, hold up with a good heart, and
Iagain feel some confidence that may last out the year.
IMore dare not risk in these climes.

  I I" have just established an Institution which will, am

sure, give you satisfaction. The particulars I shall here

after communicate, not having time at present. The

object is the cultivation of Chinese and Malayan lite

rature, with the improvement of the moral and intellectual
condition of the people. The Anglo-Chinese College at

Malacca is to be removed here, and united with a Malay

College, and both form parts of the Institution, which has

a scientific department, and places for professors in natu

Iral philosophy, &c. &c.  have put poor Finlayson's

Iname down for the latter, partly as a just compliment

wished to pay him, and partly to raise the character of our

IInstitution, by associating so creditable a name with it.

have also taken the liberty of naming you as a trustee.
    " We have about 20,000 dollars in funds, and have

voted 15,000 for the buildings. The site is fixed upon near
the beach, and the plan and appearance will be very re

spectable.

  I" trust in God this Institution may be the means of

civilizing and bettering the condition of millions ; it has

not been hastily entered into, nor have its possible ad

268 ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIVE COLLEGE.

vantages been over-rated. Our field is India beyond the

Ganges, including the Malayan Archipelago, Australasia,

China, Japan, and the islands in the Pacific Ocean--by

far the most populous half of the world ! Do not, my

Idear friend, think that am led to it by a vain ambition

of raising a name --it is an act of duty and gratitude only.

In these countries has my little independence been gained.

IIn these countries have passed the most valuable, if not,

Iperhaps, the whole period of my public life.  am linked

to them by many a bitter, many a pleasant tie. It is here

I Ithat think may have done some little good, and in

stead of frittering away the stock of zeal and means that

Imay yet be left me in objects for which may not be
I Ifitted, am anxious to do all the good can here, where

experience has proved to me that my labours will not be

thrown away. Ill health forces me to leave Singapore,

before even the material arrangements are made for its

prosperity ; but in providing for its moral improvement, I

look to its more certain and permanent advance. Would

that I could infuse into the Institution a portion of that

spirit and soul by which I would have it animated, as

Ieasily as endow it with lands, &c. It will long be in its

infancy, and to arrive at maturity will require all the aid

of friends and constant support. It is my last public act,

and rise or fall, it will always be a satisfactory reflection,

Ithat I have done my best towards it.  pray you be

friend it.

  I" Adieu-- am called to breakfast, and have written this

RESOLUTIONS OV THE BENGAL GOVERNMENT.  269

random letter with so much haste and inattention, that you

will hardly make it out.

                   I remain, now and for ever,

              " Yours, most devotedly and affectionately,
                                                 " T. S. R."

   The following resolutions of the Bengal Government,
on Sir Stamford's leaving Singapore, were very satisfac
tory to him.

                                             "Fort William, March 29, 1823.

   " The first question for consideration is the nature of

the control to be exercised henceforward over the affairs
of Singapore* and the proceedings of the local Resident.
The arrangement under which that trust was vested in
the Lieutenant-Governor of Fort Marlborough originated
in the circumstances under which the settlement was

founded, and the temporary convenience resulting from
it will cease with the relinquishment of the charge by Sir
Stamford Raffles, under whose immediate direction the
settlement was established, and whose personal super
intendence of it, in its early stage, therefore possessed a
peculiar value.

   " It would seem more naturally to fall within the range

of the government of Penang, but there are objections of
a different kind to that arrangement. There is a general
impression that the prosperity of Singapore must in a
great degree be attended with a proportionate deteriora

270  RESOLUTIONS OF THE BENGAL GOVERNMENT.

tion of Penang. As far as the information furnished by
the records of the custom-house at the latter place affords
the means of judging, it would not appear that this has
yet been the case ; but there is no doubt that the feeling
prevails among the inhabitants of both settlements gene
rally, and without supposing that it reaches the Govern

ment, or that if it did, it would bias their conduct, there

seems no such advantage to be contemplated in rendering
Singapore dependent on Penang, as to justify the risk of
injury to the interests of the rising establishment, from the
direct or incidental consequences of such an arrangement.
The system of government, and the principles of commer
cial policy prevailing at the two settlements are moreover
radically different, and it is not reasonable to expect that
each could be administered under the direction of a

subordinate and limited authority with equal effect.
   " On the occasion of relieving Sir Stamford Raffles

from the superintendence of Singapore, the Governor-
General in Council deems it an act of justice to that
gentleman, to record his sense of the activity, zeal, judg
ment, and attention to the principles prescribed for the
management of the settlement, which has marked his con
duct in the execution of that duty.

   " On placing Mr. Crawfurd in charge of the settlement
of Singapore, you will be pleased to communicate with
him fully on all points, and furnish him with such instruc

tions as you may deem necessary for carrying into effect
the orders which are now communicated to you, in reply

         PRINCIPLES OF THE GOVERNMENT AT SINGAPORE. 271

to your several despatches relative to the affairs of that
settlement."

   Sir Stamford framed a short code of laws and regula
tions for the preservation of peace and good order, in a
settlement which existed for upwards of five years entirely
on his responsibility, and the confidence reposed in him
individually ; from this responsibility neither the Bengal
Government nor the Court of Directors would relieve
him ; yet trade increased greatly, and population collected
rapidly, in the confidence he inspired. A short extract
from Sir Stamford's Report to the Bengal Government,
on these Laws and Regulations, will show the reasons
which influenced him, and the principles on which he
acted :--

  I" First, have declared that the port of Singapore is a

free port, and the trade thereof open to ships and vessels

of every nation, free of duty, equally and alike to all.

  I" am satisfied that nothing has tended more to the

discomfort and constant jarrings which have hitherto oc
curred in our remote settlements, than the policy which
has dictated the exclusion of the European merchants
from all share, much less credit, in the domestic regula
tion of the settlement, of which they are frequently its
most important members. Some degree of legislative
power must necessarily exist in every distant dependency.
The laws of the mother-country cannot be commensurate

272 PRINCIPLES OF THE GOVERNMENT AT SINGAPORE.

with the wants of the dependency : it has wants of which

a remote legislature can very imperfectly judge, and which
are sometimes too urgent to admit the delay of reference.

  I" It may be expected that should explain the grounds
Ion which have felt myself authorised to go, even as far
Ias have done, in legislating, and constituting a power of

legislating provisionally for Singapore, and at the same

Itime state the mode in which consider the legislative

and judicial branch of the public administration can be

best provided for, in any permanent arrangement to be

made by the authorities at home.

  I" shall briefly state that an actual and urgent neces

sity existed for some immediate and provisional arrange

Iments ; and that, in adopting those which have establish
Ied, it has been my endeavour, while gave all due weight

to local considerations, to adhere, as closely as possible, to

those principles, which, from immemorial usage, have ever

been considered the most essential and sacred parts of
the British constitution. The peculiar tenure on which

Singapore is at present politically held, the unusual de
gree of responsibility still resting on me personally, and
the actual circumstances under which a large population
and extensive capital have accumulated under my admi
nistration, naturally called upon me to adopt all such pro
visional measures as necessity might dictate. More than

I Ithis have not attempted; and should have but ill

fulfilled the high and important trust reposed in me,
after having congregated so large portion of my fellow
a
                                       if,

          APPOINTMENT OF MAGISTRATES.     273

Icreatures, had left them without something like law and

regulation for their security and comfort."

   With these views and feelings Sir Stamford selected
twelve of the most respectable merchants, and appointed

them to act as magistrates for one year. A list was

ordered to be kept of persons eligible for the magistracy,
from whom and the ex-magistrates the Resident was in
future to appoint twelve annually. Two of these magis
trates were to sit with the Resident in court, to decide in

civil and criminal cases ; and two were to act in rotation
each week for the minor duties of this office. Juries were

to consist either of five Europeans, or four Europeans

and three respectable natives. In criminal cases the jury

might be either purely European, or purely native.
   The Resident's Court was to assemble once a week, the

Magistrates' twice, but their office was to be open daily.

  It will be evident that this simple arrangement, which

had never before been attempted, is well adapted to bring
the ignorant natives acquainted with a knowledge of right
principles of action, and to inspire them with respect for
those who thus administered justice; but Sir Stamford
did not rest satisfied with the mere enaction of punish
ment, his object was also the prevention of crime, an
equal or even more important duty of a legislator : with

this view, gambling and cock-fighting were prohibited,

and declared to be illegal ; the persons found to have con

ducted a gaming-table or cock-pit were liable to the con-

VOL. II.                               T

274  APPROVAL OF SIR STAMFORD'S REGULATIONS.

fiscation of their property, and banishment from the
 settlement, and no gaming debts could be recognised by
 the magistrates, but the winners were to be compelled to
restore the amount to the losers.

    The Bengal Government highly approved of this effort
to check the vicious propensities of the natives ; but after
Sir Stamford's return to England, Mr. Crawfurd, whom
he had placed in charge of the settlement, anxious to raise
a revenue at any cost, established Government licenses
for indulgence in both these vices, and they were in con
sequence farmed out to the highest bidder. The Grand
Jury soon gave a proof that Sir Stamford judged wisely
in employing European merchants as guardians of the
public peace and morals ; for on the assembling of the
Court of Judicature, they presented a bill against such
a public sanction of vice, as appearing to them deeply to
affect the interest of the community of Singapore ; stating
that " the subject which they (the Grand Jury) presented
is one to which they advert with some degree of delicacy,
because they are aware that two opinions exist on the sub
ject ; and, secondly, because it is a source of revenue to
the Honourable Company. However, as only one senti
ment prevails in the minds of the Grand Jurors with
regard to the propriety or expediency of licensing public
gambling-houses, they consider it would be a dereliction
of their duty were they not to present the system as, in
their opinion, fraught with considerable evil to the com
munity. To them it appears as detrimental to the security

APPROVAL OF SIR STAMFORD S REGULATIONS.  275

of property, to the peace and good order of the settlement,
and to the moral character of the lower classes of its

inhabitants, as it is repugnant to the laws of their country.
They do not deem it necessary to enter into any lengthened
arguments to prove the truth of this proposition. Suffice
it to observe, that their opinion is formed on the experi
ence of this settlement for the last five years ; and that of
fourteen bills of indictment, which have been preferred
during the present sitting of the Grand Jury, no less
than three of the offences originated in, or were connected
with, public gambling-houses."

   The Recorder stated, " There is no doubt but that gam

bling-houses are public nuisances at common law, and

indictable as such. It was not at all necessary for you to

have stated in your Presentment, that you felt any delicacy

on the subject because the gambling-houses in Singapore

were a source of revenue to the Government. You have

done no more than your duty in presenting them," &c.

It appears that this vicious system of legalizing vice

amongst the lower orders of society has in consequence
been given up, and Sir Stamford's original laws and regu
lations enforced. Above all, it must not be forgotten that
Sir Stamford declared, " As the condition of slavery, under
any denomination whatever, cannot be recognised within
the jurisdiction of the British authority, all persons who
may have been so imported, transferred, or sold as slaves
or slave-debtors, since the 29th day of February, 1819,
 are entitled to claim their freedom, on application to the

                                                 t2

276 ADDRESS OF THE MERCHANTS OF SINGAPORE.

registrar, as hereafter provided ; and it is hereby declared
that no individual can hereafter be imported for sale,
transferred or sold as a slave or slave-debtor, or, having
his or herfixed residence under the protection of the British
authorities at Singapore, can hereafter be considered or
treated as a slave, under any denomination, condition,
colour, or pretence whatever.

    " Hereafter, a continued residence of twelve months at
Singapore shall be considered to constitute a fixed resi
dence, and to entitle the party to all the benefits of the
British administration."

    Sir Stamford had the gratification to receive from those
best qualified to appreciate the commercial advantages of
Singapore, the following address on his departure from the
settlement. His feelings are, however, best expressed in
his replies, which are annexed.

Address of the Merchants of Singapore, on the occasion of
  the departure of the Honourable Sir T. S. Raffles in 1823.

           " to the honourable sir t. s. raffles.
   "Honourable Sir,

       " It is with peculiar satisfaction that I find myself

made the channel of conveying to you the thanks and
acknowledgments of the mercantile community of Singa
pore, a body distinguished for good sense and discrimina
tion, and who have at once felt the benefits of your rule
and enjoyed the best means of appreciating your exertions.

It is scarcely necessary for myself, who have for so many

ADDRESS OF THE MERCHANTS OF SINGAPORE.       277

years had the advantage of your confidence and friend

ship, and the honour of serving under your government,

Ito say how cordially join in all the sentiments expressed

Iin the address, and shall only take this opportunity,

when we are on the point of being separated by a long

interval of time and place, to renew to you the assurance

of my affectionate attachment to your person, and my

respect and esteem for your public talents.

I" remain, with sincere regard,

" Your faithful and obedient Servant,

(Signed)                                     "J. Crawford,

                                             " Resident."

" Singapore, June 5, 1823."

     " to sir t. s. raffles, lieutenant-governor of
                       fort marlborough.

     " Honourable Sir,
              " The period of your approaching and final de

parture is one of peculiar interest to the commercial
community of this place, and we the undersigned mem
bers of it gladly seize the opportunity which it affords us
of indulging in the expression of those feelings towards
your person which the occasion is so well calculated to

excite.

   " At such a moment we cannot be suspected of pane

gyric, when we advert to the distinguished advantages
which the commercial interests of our nation at large, and

ourselves more especially, have derived from your personal

278 ADDRESS OF THE MERCHANTS OF SINGAPORE.

exertions. To your unwearied zeal, your vigilance, and

your comprehensive views, we owe at once the foundation
and maintenance of a settlement unparalleled for the
liberality of the principles on which it has been esta
blished : principles, the operation of which has converted,
in a period short beyond all example, a haunt of pirates
into the abode of enterprize, security, and opulence.

   " While we acknowledge our own peculiar obligations
to you, we reflect at the same time with pride and satis
faction upon the active and beneficent means by which
you have promoted and patronized the diffusion of intel
lectual and moral improvement, and we anticipate, with
confidence, their happy influence in advancing the cause
of humanity and civilization.

   " We cannot take leave of the author of so many

benefits without emotion, or without expressing our
sorrow for the loss of his protection and his society.
Accept, Sir, we beseech you, without distinction of tribe
or nation, the expression of our sincere respect and
esteem, and be assured of the deep interest we shall ever
take in your own prosperity, as well as in the happiness
of those who are most tenderly related to you.

          " We remain, with the deepest respect,
                         " Your most obedient Servants.

                  [Signed by the European and Native Merchants

                                        of Singapore.]

    " Singapore, June bth, 1823."

                  REPLY TO MR. CRAWFURD.      279

    TO JOHN CRAWFURD, ESQ. RESIDENT OF SINGAPORE.

I" Sir,-- have had the honour to receive your letter with

the address from the mercantile community of Singapore,

and you will oblige me by submitting to that highly re

spectable body the accompanying reply.

   " My experience enables me to bear ample testimony

to the disinterestedness and honour of the principal

merchants of Singapore, European and Native, and while

it is a high satisfaction to me to find such truly respect
able establishments formed in the early period of the

settlement, it can be no less a proportionate gratification

to me personally to receive from men so distinguished, so

unexpected an expression of their public opinion in favour

Iof the measures which have felt it my duty to adopt for

the general prosperity of the place.
   " The sentiments of respect and attachment which you

are pleased to express towards my person are most grate

Iful to my feelings, and while thank you most sincerely

for the kind and handsome manner in which you have

conveyed them, you must allow me in return to wish you
all prosperity in the discharge of the important duties to

which you are now called, and for which you are so highly

and eminently qualified, and at the same time that you

may enjoy all happiness and comfort in your social and

domestic circle.

" With an affectionate and sincere regard,

                  " Believe me, yours truly,

(Signed)                       " T. S. Raffles."

" Singapore. June 9th, 1823."

280 REPLY TO THE MERCHANTS OF SINGAPORE.

 to alexander morgan, esq. and other european and
                native merchants of singapore.

   " Gentlemen,
          " Mr. Crawfurd has delivered to me the address

which you have so kindly and delicately drawn up on the
occasion of my departure.

    " Under the peculiar circumstances of my personal
connexion with the establishment of Singapore, it is im

Ipossible to suppose that can be indifferent to any of its

interests, far less to its commercial interests, of which I

consider you to be the representatives.

   " It has happily been consistent with the policy of

Great Britain, and accordant with the principles of the
East India Company, that Singapore should be esta
blished as a Free Port ; that no sinister, no sordid view,

no considerations either of political importance or pecu
niary advantage, should interfere with the broad and
liberal principles on which the British interests have

been established. Monopoly and exclusive privileges,
against which public opinion has long raised its voice, are
here unknown ; and while the free Port of Singapore is
allowed to continue and prosper, as it hitherto has done,
the policy and liberality of the East India Company, by
whom the settlement was founded, and under whose pro
tection and control it is still administered, can never be

disputed.
   " That Singapore will long and always remain a free

Port, and that no taxes on trade or industry will be

Iestablished to check its future rise and prosperity, can

REPLY TO THE MERCHANTS OF SINGAPORE.            281

Ihave no doubt.  am justified in saying thus much, on

the authority of the Supreme Government of India, and

on the authority of those who are most likely to have

weight in the councils of our nation at home.
   " For the public and peculiar mark of respect which

you, Gentlemen, have been desirous of showing me on the

Ioccasion of my departure from the settlement,  beg that

Iyou will accept my most sincere thanks. know the feel

Iing which dictated it, acknowledge the delicacy with

Iwhich it has been conveyed, and prize most highly the

gratifying terms to me personally in which it has been

expressed.

   " During my residence among you, it has afforded me

the highest satisfaction to witness the prudence, the regu
larity, the honourable character of your proceedings ; and

when I quit you for other lands, I shall be proud to bear

testimony in your favour, not only as your due, but aS the
best proof of the sure and certain result which the adop
tion of liberal and enlightened principles on the part of

Government must always ensure.
   " There are some among you, Gentlemen, who had to

encounter difficulties on the first establishment of the

freedom of the Port, and against whom party spirit and

its concomitant, partial judgment, was allowed for a time

to operate. In the commanding station in which my

Ipublic duty has placed me, have had an opportunity of,

in a great measure, investigating and determining the

merits of the case, and the result renders it a duty on my

                                                            r

282 REPLY TO THE MERCHANTS OF SINGAPORE.

Ipart, and which perform with much satisfaction, to ex

press my most unqualified approbation of the honourable
principles which actuated the merchants of Singapore on

that occasion.

  I I" am not aware, Gentlemen, that have done any of
Iyou a favour ; that is to say, that have done to any man
Iamongst you that which would not have done to his

neighbour, or more than what my duty required of me,

Iacting, as have done, on the liberal and enlightened

principles authorized by my superiors. My best endea

vours have not been wanting to establish such principles,

and to sketch such outlines, as have appeared to me
necessary for the future prosperity of the settlement; and
in doing this it has been most satisfactory to me to have
found in you that ready concurrence, and at all times that

steady support, which was essential to my government
and authority.

   " May you, Gentlemen, English and Native, and as
the language of your address expresses it, without class

or distinction, long continue in the honourable and dis

tinguished course which you have so happily commenced,

and may the principles which you respect and act upon
long distinguish you among the merchants of the East.

  I" can never forget that the Singapore Institution

could not have been founded without your aid. The
liberal manner in which you came forward, to spare from

your hard earnings so large a portion for the improve
ment and civilization of the surrounding tribes, and in the

KMBARKS FOR BENCOOLEN.                      283

furtherance of general knowledge and science, would at

once stamp the character of the Singapore merchant,

even if it did not daily come forward on more ostensible

occasions.

  I" am most grateful for the kind expression of your

personal regards to me, and those who may be dear to
me ; and, in return, beg you will accept my most sincere

and heartfelt wishes for your health, comfort, and pros

perity.

      I" have the honour to be, Gentlemen,

" Your's most faithfully,

(Signed)                      " T. S. Raffles."

" Singapore, June 9th, 1823.

   Sir Stamford now returned to Bencoolen, and on the

voyage wrote the letters from which the following are

extracts :--
                                to .

                                                   " Off Borneo, June 12, 1823.
   " Having placed Crawfurd in charge of Singapore, and

sailed from thence on the 9th instant, we are thus far on

our return to Bencoolen, being under the necessity of
touching at Batavia on the way, the ship having goods to
land there. Don't alarm yourself at this last intimation,

Ifor am most peaceably inclined, and do not intend to

land.

   " You will hear from Bengal that all my proceedings

and plans at Singapore have been approved ; that Craw
furd has been appointed Resident immediately under the

284     EMBARKS FOR BENCOOLEN.

IBengal Government. This is exactly what wished ; and

I"am happy to say everything has turned out to my entire

satisfaction.

  I" have not, as you may suppose, remained at Singa

pore eight months for nothing; two-thirds of the time

have, no doubt, been spent in pain and annoyance, from

Ithe dreadful head-aches  am doomed to suffer in this

country, but the remaining third has been actively em

ployed.

  I" have had everything to new-mould from first to

last ; to introduce a system of energy, purity, and en

couragement; to remove nearly all the inhabitants, and

to re-settle them ; to line out towns, streets, and roads ;

to level the high and fill up the low lands ; to give pro
perty in the soil and rights to the people ; to lay down
principles, and sketch institutions for the domestic order
and comfort of the place, as well as its future character
and importance ; to look for a century or two beforehand,

and provide for what Singapore may one day become, by
the adoption of all such measures of forecast as reason

and experience can suggest.

  I" That have not forgotten the moral interests and

character of the settlement, the establishment of the Sin

Igapore Institution will be the best proof. have given it

as free a constitution as possible ; and Singapore is now,
perhaps, the only place in India where slavery cannot

exist.

LETTER TO DK. RAFFLES.                          285

   " Sophia bears up very well.  We expect to reach Ben-
coolen by the 10th of July."

TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

             " At Sea, off the Coast of Borneo, June 14/A, 1823.

" My dear Cousin,
      " We left Singapore on the 9th, and are thus far

on our return to Bencoolen, with the intention of touching

at Batavia on the way. My time was so fully occupied

Iwhile closing my administration at Singapore, that really
Ihad it not in my power to sit down, as ought to have

done, to thank you most sincerely for your letter announc

ing the arrival of our dear little Ella; it was the first

Iaccount we received, and need not attempt to express

the joy and gladness which it diffused throughout our

domestic circle. Sophia's patience was almost tired out,

Iand the news has given her almost a new life.  am sorry

Ithat have been obliged to leave Singapore before the

printing of the papers on the formation of the Singapore

Institution was completed. Printing in this country is,

Iindeed, most tedious and expensive work.       have left

orders that several copies be sent to you by the very first
Iopportunity, and you will perceive that have put your
Iname down as a Trustee.
                          laid the foundation-stone of

Ithe buildings three days before embarked.

" Mr. Crawfurd is now the Resident of Singapore ; and,

in anticipation of my return to Europe at the end of the

Iyear, have resigned all further charge of the place. It

·28G  I.ETTKR TO DR. WALLICH.

is a most promising settlement, and is fast realizing my

most sanguine views regarding it.
   " We have under our charge for Europe my sister Mary

Anne's little boy Charles, and are thinking of prepara

tions for the voyage home, which, with the blessing of

God, we hope to commence with the new year, touching

at the Cape and at St. Helena on the way, so as to be

with you in May or June. My health has now become

worse, but Sophia's is much improved.

   " You know by experience the misery of ship-board, and

Iwill, therefore, not expect that should, in such a situation,
Iwrite you a very long and interesting letter. write these

few lines with a very unsteady hand and giddy head ; but

Ias may have a chance of sending them by some vessel
Iabout to sail from Batavia, am unwilling to lose the op

portunity of writing at all."

                                     TO DR. WALLICH.

                        "At Sea, off the Coast of Borneo, July, 1823.
      " My dear Friend,

           " It is quite an age since we heard from you,

and we have been somewhat disappointed in not receiving

a line from you by Crawfurd, or, at any rate, by the ship
in which he came down. He, however, brought Sophia

your bottle of ether, which has proved that you did not
forget us : accept our best thanks for it.

  I" It will, am sure, be satisfactory to you to know that

all my arrangements have been approved in Bengal, and

LETTER TO DR. WALLICH.                   287

Ithat have cause to be highly satisfied with the consi
Iderate attention and support which have uniformly met

with from Mr. Adams's Government. They appear to

have entered into, and fully understood my views, and,

Iwhat is more, fully appreciated them.   placed Crawfurd

in full charge before my departure.

  I I" give you this parish news, because am confident it

will interest you, and be at the same time satisfactory to

Iyou to know, that however annoyed may have been for

a time, the close of my administration at Singapore has

Ibeen just what wished.

  "You will probably hear much of my College, and the

laws of the former : the pamphlet now in the press will

Igive you all information, and of the latter have not time
to enter into the details. It was impossible that, after

collecting together so great a population, and so much

Iwealth as is now accumulated at Singapore, could, with

any satisfaction to myself, leave the place without esta

blishing something like law and regulation. The consti

Itution which have given to Singapore is certainly the

purest and most liberal in India ; but this, perhaps, is not

saying much for it.                      I am forced to

  I" left Singapore on the 9th instant.

touch at Batavia on my way to Bencoolen, very much

against my will ; but the Captain has goods to land, and

no other opportunity was likely to offer of getting round.

IThe Dutch will be a little astonished, but cannot help

Iit ; do not intend to land.

288  LETTER TO DR. WALLICH.

I'You will be gratified to hear, that although  was

dreadfully harassed and fagged before leaving Singapore,

I feel no ill effects from it, and now do not have a dreadful

head-ache above once or twice a- week, instead of for two or

three days together as heretofore. Lady Raffles also

Ibears the voyage better than expected ; and upon the

whole we have great cause to be thankful for the compa

Iratively tolerable health we now enjoy. So that hope

we may yet last out till the end of the year, after which it

would be madness to attempt to hold out in this country.
   " Write me fully and frequently to Bencoolen, and say

Iwhat can but do for you at home. God bless you, my

dear friend ; and that you may enjoy health and prosperity

is the ardent wish of your most affectionate friend."

                                     TO DR. WALLICH.
                                                      " Java Seas, July 20, 1 823.

   " My dear Friend,
          " Before we arrive at Batavia, where recollections

of the past and change of scene may occupy my whole
attention, let me remind you of two or three little things

Iin which require your good offices. First and foremost

stands my desire to obtain for Sir Everard Home the

foetus of the tiger, Hon, whale, rhinoceros, &c. &c.

  "In the next place, a particular description of the

Jackia formosa, and memorandum for the life or memoir

of our departed friend, to be completed with the assistance

of his brother.

          ARRIVAL AT BATAVIA.                          289

I" wish you to send me drawings of all the varieties of

Inutmegs in your possession.  shall have much to say

respecting the cultivation of the nutmeg at Bencoolen, and

it would be interesting to enliven the description with an

Iaccount of the natural growth, habitude, &c.          have

already a large collection, upwards of ten varieties.  Do

  I" enclose you my decision on the slave question.

not forget the dwarf bull and cow to Bencoolen before

I go.

   " Adieu, my good friend, and God bless you and yours."

                             to .
                                            " Batavia Roads, June 28, 1 823.

" We arrived here on the 25th. Sophia was taken on

shore on the same day, and is now under the hospitable roof
of Macquoid, where she is gaining health and strength to

enable her to get through the remainder of the voyage.
This is Saturday, and we hope to be off on Tuesday

morning.

I" For myself, remain on board according to the reso

I Ilution took on embarking.  have, however, had an

opportunity of seeing all the English gentlemen, and have

no particular cause to regret the necessity which forced us

Ito touch here, as have been able to see the sort of material

Iof which the Dutch Governor General is made.  deemed

it respectful and proper to send Nilson on shore, telling

Ihim, was in the roads, and that Sophia would land on

account of her health ; but that it was neither my wish

VOL. II.                       u

290 CORRESPONDENCE WITH BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN.

nor intention to land. His surprise and apprehension,

however, on the occasion were such that he would not ask
Nilson a single question, but returned an answer to my
note verbally by Macquoid.

   " In the evening, however, he thought a written acknow
ledgment necessary. Had Bonaparte returned to life,
and anchored in the Downs, it would not have excited
greater agitation in England, than my arrival has

 done here, though the sensation might have been
 very different. Here fear and apprehension are every
 thing, and to these all courtesy, principle, and interest
 give way.

   I" send you the correspondence which has taken place

 on the subject, as it is rather amusing."

       No. I.

TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN.

"Sir,                           " Tuesday Evening.

I" have the honour to inform your Excellency of

my arrival in Batavia Boads, in the ship Hero of Malown,

Iin which am returning to Bencoolen, being under the

necessity of touching at this port, for the purpose of land

ing some consignments from Bengal.

  I" trust our detention will not exceed two or three days ;

but as Lady Raffles is in a very delicate state of health

and suffers much at sea, the advantage of going on shore

will be a great relief to her.

       BARON CAPELLEN's LETTER TO T. S. RAFFLES.    291

" Captain Hull, of my personal staff, will have the

honour of delivering this letter.

               I" have the honour to be,

             with the highest consideration, &c. &c.

             (Signed)            " T. S. Raffles."

                        No. II.

       TO MR. LE CHEV. THOS. S. RAFFLES.

" Monsieur,                      "Batavia, Juin 25, 1823.

       "J'ai requ avec une extrême surprise la lettre

que M. le Capitaine Hull m'a remise de votre part.
   " J'ai chargé M. Macquoid de vous donner verbalement

ma réponse, et ne doute point qu'il ne s'acquitte avec

exactitude de cette commission.

   " Je veux cependant ajouter encore à ce qu'il vous dira

de ma part, que j'étois loin de m'attendre à vous voir

arriver à Batavia après tout ce qui a eu lieu depuis

1818.

"Vous ne pouviez ignorer, Monsieur, qu'une pareille

visite, que vous auriez pu éviter, ne peut que m'être ex

trêmement désagréable.

   "L'indisposition de Madame Raffles est cependant un
motif que je respecte trop pour m'opposer à votre séjour

à Batavia pendant quelques jours.

   " Je regrette, Monsieur, de ne pouvoir, après tout ce

qui a eu lieu, vous accueillir, comme je me fais toujours

un devoir et plaisir de recevoir les fonctionnaires d'un

                                                            u2

292 CORRESPONDENCE WITH BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN.

Gouvernement si intimement lié avec celui que j'ai l'hon

neur de représenter ici.

"Vous connoissez trop bien l'état des choses, Monsieur,

pour ce que j'ai besoin de vous observer, que toute com

munication ou entrevue personnelle entre nous doit être

évitée. Je ne pourrais que répéter de nouveau toute la

série de plaintes que j'ai cru de mon devoir d'adresser à

mon Gouvernement comme à vôtre, depuis plusieurs

années, contre un grand nombre de vos actions dirigées

contre les intérêts de mon Souverain ; une pareille com

munication n'offrirait aucun agrément ni pour vous ni pour

moi-même.

           " J'ai l'honneur d'être, &c.

           (Signed)       "Van Der Capellen."

                          No. III.

TO HIS EXCELLENCY BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN.

           " On board the Hero of Malovm, Batavia Roads,

" Sir,                    Thursday morning.

" Your Excellency's letter was delivered to me

during the night.

  I" am sorry that what was intended merely as a mark

of respect, should have given rise to the extreme surprise
Iwhich you express.
                          felt it right to inform your Excel

lency of my being in the roads of Batavia, and I stated

the circumstance which had led to it.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN. 293

" You would appear to have been misinformed, in sup

posing that it was my intention or my desire to land or
court a personal interview. My landing in Java, while

under your Excellency's government, could only have been

attended with painful feelings, public as well as private,

and there certainly has been nothing in the conduct of

your Excellency, which could have rendered me par
ticularly desirous of personal communication or ac

quaintance.

I I" caused it to be publicly known before  embarked,

Ithat neither intended nor wished to land ; and under

Ithese circumstances,  trust you will admit that the pro

scription you have thought proper to issue might, in com
mon courtesy, have been delayed, until a solicitation on

my part might have called for it.

"Your Excellency also appears to have been misin
Iformed, when you state that
                                   might or should have

avoided touching at Batavia, knowing how disagreeable it

Iwould be to you.  can assure you it was a matter of abso

lute necessity, in every way against my wishes and feel

I Iings ; though must say, never for a moment supposed

it would have given rise to any apprehensions or unplea

sant feelings on your part.

   " You have, Sir, thought proper to refer to political dif

ferences, and to the complaints which you have thought

proper to make against my proceedings, which you consi
dered to be directed against the interests of your Sove

reign ; on which it is necessary for me to call to your

294 CORRESPONDENCE WITH BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN.

Irecollection, that have at least had similar grounds of

complaining of some of the proceedings of your govern

ment, and that the very acts on my part, which you call
into question, arose solely from a conviction, that such

proceedings on your Excellency's part were directed
against the interests of my country. The decision, as to

whose views on the subject have been most correct, re

Imains with higher authorities ; and while cheerfully give

your Excellency the credit of having acted as you deemed

best for the interests of your country, I hope you will

judge equally charitably of the motives which may have

dictated my conduct.

  I" have thought the above explanation due as well to
Iyour Excellency as myself, as should have presumed you

to have been as incapable of offering a personal incivility,

Ias am of receiving one, without noticing it as it de

serves.

  " I did not, Sir, consider it necessary to request your

Ipermission for Lady Raffles to land, as could not sup

pose it to be so in the present state of civilized society ;

Ibut have now respectfully to request that, as she is in

delicate health, and far advanced in her pregnancy, your

Excellency will insure her a safe passport to the ship

whenever she may be desirous of re-embarking. .

                   I" have the honour to be, &c.

(Signed)  " T. S. Raffles."

This correspondence may be left without comment. It

       CORRESPONDENCE WITH BARON VAN DER CAPELLEN. 295

is not necessary to add more than that the request con
tained in the closing lines was granted : and that, though
Sir Stamford himself remained on board, during the week
of the vessel's stay at Batavia, and did not once visit the
shore, the people of the Island were not to be restrained ;
and he there held as it were a continual levee every day,
people of all ranks flocking to him.

                CHAPTER XIX.

Arrival at Bencoolen -- Plans for the future-- Freedom of the port of
   Singapore -- Account of the Poetries -- State of health -- Death of
  friends -- Death of child--Anxiety about the arrival of the ship
   Fame -- Determines to embark in the Borneo -- Arrival of the
   Fame -- Embarkation--Burning of the ship --Appeal to the Court
   of Directors -- Extract from Memorandum book, for regulation of
   time -- Embarks in the Mariner -- Storm off the Cape -- Arrival at
   St. Helena-- Landing at Plymouth.

Sir Stamford had now closed his official connexion with
Singapore, the most interesting object of the latter part of
his public life in the East, and he proposed to have passed
the few remaining months of his residence in India, in

completing and arranging his affairs, both public and pri
vate. During his residence in these regions, he had de
voted himself with all his mind, health, and strength, for
twenty years, to the duties of the several stations entrusted
to him, and he had combined with the performance of
those duties, which peculiar circumstances had made more
responsible and arduous than usual in such situations, an
unwearied pursuit of the literature of the several countries
within his reach. He also pursued, as will have been per
ceived, the study of chemistry, geology, and natural history,
and in fact was unceasingly occupied in the acquirement
of various kinds of knowledge.

LETTER TO DR. WALL1CH.           297

   The following are extracts from the letters written
during this period of his residence in Sumatra.

 *****TO DR. WALLICH.
                                                    " Bencoolen, November 1, 1823.

   " Crawfurd has promised most solemnly to adhere to
and uphold all my arrangements.
  I" lament to observe by the papers that poor Finlay-
Ison breathed his last in the way home. Poor fellow,

never had much hope that he would be spared ; yet his

death has been to me a severe shock, admiring and

Ivaluing as did, his talents, disposition, and principles.

  " It is only a week ago that we had another death in

our family : Mr. Drummond, a gentleman who had come

out to us highly recommended from home, and was em

barking largely in our agricultural pursuits, was carried
Ioff in less than twelve hours.
                                 know not how it is, but

these continual breaches in our domestic circle seem to be

sad warnings.

  I" had hoped to have got away by the end of the pre

sent year, but an accumulation of details, and the arrival

of a detachment of troops most unexpectedly sent by the

Bengal Government to the northern part of the Island,

may keep me for some time. My health for the last

Iweek or two has rather improved, but am still subject

to the same attacks which so often and so completely

overpowered me at Singapore.
   " Lady Raffles, though entirely recovered from her last

21)8    PLANS FOR THE FUTURE.

confinement, is in a very delicate state, and it was only

last night that we were forced to apply thirty leeches, and

have recourse to warm baths and laudanum, to keep

down inflammation.

  " My time has been so occupied since my return, that I

have hardly been able to arrange the papers of our friend

IJack.  prepare to take them all hence with me. They

are not very extensive, but they are generally to the

point, and valuable.

" We are desirous of placing an inscription over his

Igrave, and have written to Calder to send an appro

Ipriate stone from Calcutta.  learn from his brother that

his age was only twenty seven ; he died at Bencoolen, at

Ithe Government-house, on the 15th September, 1823.

must beg of you to do the last kind office, of adding

to the above particulars a few words expressive of his

character and attainments."

                               to .

                                                    " Bencoolen, November 4, 1823.

  I" Sophia, am sorry to say, has had an attack of fever,

and alarmed us very much, but she is improving ; and if
we get away this season all may yet be well.

  I" propose on the voyage hence, if my health admits,

to sketch out something like an account of the establish
ment of Singapore, with a description of the place, map,

&c. Something of the kind seems necessary for general

information.
   " Our little Flora expands daily."

PROPOSED PLAN FOR THE VOYAGE HOME.  299

                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                                                 November 6, 1 823.

  " This is the last opportunity that will offer for writing

to England, before we ourselves intend embarking.
   " The voyage out looked long, and was long, but we

shall no longer draw a lengthening chain, each day will

bring us nearer to that spot where all our best affections
are centered, and we shall hope to land in far better

spirits than the day we parted. That indeed was a

dismal day ; and yet, if we do meet again, shall we not

forget it ?

  I" am sorry to say that we have had another death in
Iour family, and that have been under great alarm for

*****Lady Raffles. She had first presented me with another

little girl, and recovered from her confinement, when she

was attacked by a most severe fever.
   " By touching at the Cape of Good Hope, which we

hope to reach from this in six weeks, remaining there ten
days, and then stopping at St. Helena, which we should

reach in ten days, and proceeding from thence to Eng
land, in seven weeks more, we hope to break the length of

the passage, and to keep up her strength, as well as that
of the infant, by occasional rest and refreshment.

  II I" believe have already informed your Grace, that

had delivered over charge of Singapore, and that it only
remains for me to wind up my administration here."

300  LETTER TO MR. MURDOCH.

                TO MR. MURDOCH.

" My dear Sir,  * Btiteoolen, November 14, 1823.

     " I have received your kind and friendly letters

down to the 23rd of January last, and feel most grateful

for the warm and kind interest which you continue to

Itake in our welfare and happiness. Indeed, hardly

know how to thank you sufficiently, except it is by saying

that we justly appreciate it.
   " As this may be the last opportunity afforded of

writing to England before we ourselves may embark, I

am anxious not to let it pass without once more praying

your forgiveness for all my omissions in the way of letter-

I Iwriting.
     feel conscious that have not written to you

I Iso often nor so fully as ought to have done, and that

I Ihave a long arrear of debt, which fear shall never dis

charge, unless you will accept of the only composition

which it is in my power to offer --the assurance that,

I Ithough may not have written much, have not felt the

less, and that both Lady Raffles and myself have not

only retained our respect and affection for you and your

family unabated, but that time and distance have only
tended to strengthen the feeling into that kind of affec

tionate attachment and regard, that in returning to
Europe, we look forward to the pleasure of seeing you,
as to the meeting with those of our own blood and

family.
   " Our plan is to leave this about February, or so as to

ILLNESS OF LADY RAFFLES.                   301

make England in July ; but so fatally have our antici

Ipations been disappointed hitherto, that  hardly dare

look forward with confidence to its execution. Lady

Raffles had hardly recovered from her last confinement,

when she was attacked by a violent fever, which has

hardly yet left her, and she is still confined to her couch.

I am scarcely able to hold up my head two days together ;

but yet we will hope that our period of banishment is

nearly terminated, and that we may, with the blessing of

God, see you in the course of next summer.

   " What may be my future plan of life is still more un

Icertain ; but if am fortunate enough to reach England
Ialive, am certain that no inducement shall ever lead me

to revisit India. I have already passed nearly thirty

years of my life in the Company's service, and have

always been placed in situations of so much responsi

bility, that my mind has always been on the stretch, and

never without some serious anxiety.

  I" naturally look forward to retirement, when these
Ianxieties may cease, and can enjoy that serenity which

is above all things necessary for the peace and comfort of

this life. Accustomed, however, to activity, and neces

I Isarily to habits of business,
am aware that cannot be

Iidle and happy at the same time, and therefore shall be

, ready to enter with some degree of zeal upon any pur

suits that appear to promise eventual satisfaction.

  I" enclose you a copy of the address presented to me

by the merchants of Singapore, on the occasion of my

302  PROPOSED ACCOUNT OF SINGAPORE.

resigning charge of that settlement, preparatory to my

proceeding to Europe, and hope that, in the pledge which

I gave them, of the permanency of the freedom of the

IPort, without duties or restrictions of any kind, shall he

Isupported and borne out by the authorities at home.

cannot but think that we have now taken too firm a root

at Singapore, to render it even possible that it should be

Idelivered over to the Dutch, and therefore did not
Iadvert to such a possible contingency. Hereafter hope

to present you with a pamphlet, containing the particulars

of the establishment of the Singapore Institution, as well

Ias with the regulations which have adopted there for

the administration of justice, until more regular provi

Isions are made. They will, think, meet your appro
bation. I notice what you say regarding the publication

of some account of the establishment of Singapore, with

Ia map annexed, and thank you for the hint.  have little

to say on the subject, more than has been repeated over

and over again in my official despatches, though perhaps
in different words ; but as these are likely to moulder

away in Leadenhall Street, without perhaps being twice

Iread, it may be useful should attempt a more public

exposition of my sentiments and views. Indeed, after

what has taken place, and particularly with reference to

the extraordinary assertion of Lord Bathurst as to the

nature of my appointment, something of a public nature

Iwill be required from me ; and although am far from

wishing to obtrude myself or my proceedings on the

PROPOSED ACCOUNT OF SINGAPORE.               303

Ipublic, feel confident, that the more my conduct is in

vestigated and known, the more credit will at any rate be

Igiven to my motives ; so that, in this point of view, have

rather an inducement to publish than otherwise.

  I" Should, therefore, my health admit, shall probably

devote a few hours in the day, during the voyage home, to

Icondense into a convenient space what think may be

interesting on the subject, to be revised after my arrival

in England, according to circumstances. It is not my

wish, any more than my interest, to run counter to the

Iauthorities that be ; but, as a public man, hardly know
Ihow can pass over the direful sacrifices made by Lord

Castlereagh without remark. My sole object, in a politi

Ical point of view, is to do justice to the cause have
Iundertaken, and think it only requires to be fairly and

honestly stated, to make its way wherever it is known.

" According to my present notion of the subject, it

Ioccurs to me that, by way of introduction,  might

enlarge on the course and value of the trade of the

Eastern Islands and China, its past history and present

state, with a description of the more interesting points of

character among the inhabitants, and some account of the

geography and natural history of the different countries.

I might then give a short, but pointed account of the

question with the Dutch ; the reasons which induced the

establishment at Singapore ; how that establishment was

effected ; the principle on which it was maintained, and

the rapidity of its rise ; a short description of the place,

301  PROPOSED ACCOUNT OF SINGAPORE.

its inhabitants, productions, and localities, might follow,

with an account of its institutions, and an appendix, con

taining the regulations for the Chinese and Malay Col

lege, &c.

   " You will hardly believe, that at the close of my ad

Iministration of that settlement, received the unreserved

approbation of the Government of Bengal of all the

I Imeasures of a public nature that had adopted.  have,

however, been opposed throughout in establishing the
freedom of the Port, and anything like a liberal mode of
management, and not only by the Penang Government,

but also in Bengal. The Bengal merchants, or rather

Ione or two of them, whom could name, would have pre

ferred the old system, by which they might have mono

polized the early resources of the place, and thus checked

its progress to importance. My views have been more

enlarged, and as the authorities at home have fortunately

Inot yet interfered with the details, have taken upon my

self to widen the base, and to look to a more important

Isuperstructure.  have given the place something like a

constitution, a representative body, and fashioned all my

regulations more with reference to the pure principles

of the British constitution, than upon the half-cast, or

country-born regulations of our Indian administration,

which, however well they may be suited to the circum
stances of continental India, are altogether inapplicable

to the state of society in the Eastern Islands. This has

brought upon me what may be called a local opposition

              MENDEZ PINTO'S ACCOUNT OF JAVA.                305

Iparty in Bengal, and must be content to look for the

just appreciation of my views and plans rather in England

than in India.

  I" was the other day looking over the translation you

were so kind to make for me from Mendez Pinto relating
to Java; and though he may exaggerate numbers, and

tell a story with embellishments, his localities are so cor

I Irect, that, as far as can judge from this instance, am

inclined to think he deserves more credit than he has yet
received. His statements regarding Borneo, and other

countries of the Archipelago less known than Java, would

be interesting ; and if from the history of the last-men

tioned island we could vouch for his correctness, it might

set people thinking of what was possibly the former con

dition of the Archipelago, before the valour of Portugal

broke down its power, and the sordid policy of the Dutch

destroyed its spirit and energies. It would be an odd

              as Marsden has undertaken the cause of
coincidence,  if,

                                                        I
Marco Polo, on account of what he said of Sumatra,

should be the advocate of Pinto from the relation he gives

of Java.
   " Your observations respecting the bark of the nutmeg-

tree have not pass unnoticed, and have now parcel of
                 I

                                         a

                                                          :

                                          it
the bark preparing for Europe as an experiment               does

not, however, appear to me to be peculiarly fragrant."

In returning to Bencoolen Sir Stamford had to en

counter once more scene of trial, sickness, and death.
              a

VOL. II.                                       x

                      LETTER TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

His few remaining friends fell a sacrifice to the climate ;
his family it pleased God to afflict with illness ; and it

seemed as if his life was to end with his labours. It is

not easy to describe the state of anxiety in which the two
last months were spent : ready and anxious to leave a
place in which so many earthly ties of happiness had been
broken, and yet seeing hour after hour pass away, without
the means of escape, and with scarcely a hope that life
would be prolonged from one day to another.

   " The following letters give a lively picture of the state
of his feelings at this period :--

    TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

" My dear Cousin,  " Bencoolen, November 15, 1823.

" As this may be the last opportunity of writing

Ibefore we ourselves embark,  am anxious not to let it

******pass without endeavouring to repay some part of the

heavy debt standing against me on the score of omissions
in letter-writing.
" We have suffered much in health and spirits since we

said farewell ; but our hearts are the same ; and we trust

that, if we can regain our health by a change of climate,

there may yet be many happy days in store for us, even in

this sublunary and transitory scene.

*.  *              *                  *  *

" Of this place I have nothing at present very particular

PROGKESS OK THE PA DRIES.  30?

to communicate, or that will not as conveniently be left
for personal intercourse ; but it will be satisfactory for
you to know that we are doing wonders with our schools,

and that our Bible Society is not inactive : the two mis

sionaries whom we have here, Messrs. Robinson and
Ward, are very zealous ; and Reports are now framing to

*****be laid before the General Meeting on the 1st of January,

Iwhich will, hope, prove that we have not been inactive ;

and that the results are as great as we could rationally
have expected in so short a time.
    " Considerable interest has lately been excited by the
progress in Sumatra of the Mahomedan sect, usually
termed the Padries, or more particularly the Putcho or
Whites, in opposition to the Elaws or Blacks, by which
latter term they designate all who do not embrace their
doctrine.

  I" It was to the ravages of these people that alluded in

my account of the journey to Menangkabu, as having re

peatedly pillaged and burnt the capital of that celebrated
seat of the Malay empire ; and it is with them that the
Dutch, since their occupation of Padang, have been
involved in a desperate and relentless war, neither party
giving quarter, and prices being set upon the heads of the
principal Chiefs. The first notice of this powerful sect,
which had its origin near Mount Ophir, was about ten
years ago ; but it has been during the last three, and prin
cipally since the occupation of Padang by the Dutch, that

                                                                        x2

308  PROGRESS OF THE PADR1ES.

it has become formidable, and occasioned alarm for the

safety of the European settlements on the west coast of
 Sumatra.

   "The policy of the British Government has hitherto
been that of neutrality, considering that the question
related principally to peculiar doctrines of Mahomedanism,

in which the natives might be best left to themselves : but
the success of the Padries during the last year, in which
they have overrun nearly the whole of the rich and
populous countries of the interior, has at length called for
measures of decision even on the part of the British autho

rity. A considerable force was detached from Bengal in

September last, direct to Nattal; and measures are in
progress for the adoption of offensive operations, should
negociation fail. The tenets of the Padries require, that
all Mahomedans shall refrain from the use of opium, from

cock-fighting, and other Malayan vices -- that they should
wear a peculiar dress, and submit to ecclesiastical autho
rity. The Malays, who form the population of the coast
districts, are averse to this change, as altering their habits,
and departing from their ancient customs ; and the Eu
ropean Governments are actually employed in protecting
them against the improvement which would necessarily
follow from their adoption of the tenets of the Padries.

   " It is not to be denied that, with people of so low a

state of civilization as those in the interior of Sumatra
must be, success will too often make them wanton ; and
that their practice is frequently inconsistent with their

PROGRESS OF THE PADR1ES.  309

doctrines--this is naturally expected -- and the love of
plunder and thirst of revenge over those who are most

obstinate in resisting them is too often predominant.

    "The resources of these people seem considerable;

and their engagements with the Dutch have taught them
to know their own strength. Their power in the interior of
Sumatra may now be considered as completely established,
and various speculations are formed as to the result.

    " We thus see one of the finest islands in the world, on
which we have had establishments for upwards of a century,
without once venturing to improve the condition of the
people, or to send one Christian Missionary among them,
giving way before the desolating influence of the false
prophet of Mecca, and becoming rapidly a strong Maho-
medan resting ground, with our eyes open, and with
scarcely one effort made by ourselves to oppose them by a
purer faith. The missionaries we have lately employed
in Sumatra are too few in number to do much. That they
will do good, as far as their influence reaches, there can
be no doubt ; but that influence will long be limited to
our immediate stations, unless we increase their numbers.
Instead of three missionaries, we ought to have three hun
dred; and the object of these three hundred should be to
initiate three thousand of the natives to act as missionaries
in the interior. There are yet hundreds of thousands,
perhaps millions, in Sumatra, who at this moment pos
sess no religion at all, among whom we may include the
Battas. The Padries are now on their very borders, with

310         DEATH OK CAPTAIN SALMON D.

the Koran in one hand, and the sword in the other ; and

the only missionary whom we have is an isolated indivi
dual, residing under the protection of the British factory
at Tappanooly, but who has not the means of penetrating
into the interior. This individual, however, (Mr. Burton,)
has translated part of the Scriptures into the Batta

*****language, and his success in this respect is highly praise

worthy to his application and character ; but alone he can
do little beyond the influence of our own factory, which
does not extend one mile inland.
   " It would be useful to draw public attention to this

subject now, particularly as it has excited much interest
in India ; and is the only cause likely to detain me here

longer than I could wish. I cannot well leave the coast

till some decisive measure is adopted ; and yet in politics

who can see the end ? My desire is to avoid all involve

ment as much as possible ; and if our measures are likely

Ito be of a protracted nature, shall not think of waiting

the issue.

            " Believe me, &c."

                                   to .

                            " Permattam Ballam, Bencoolen, Nov. 23, 1623.

    " This is a most melancholy day. One of my last
letters informed you of the death of poor Drummond after
a few hours' illness ; one of the Mr. Days died about the
same time. Two days ago Mr. Halhed was carried off;

          LETTER TO DR. WALLICH.                     311

Iand have just received information that my dear and

valuable friend Salmond is no more.
   " This last blow has been almost too much for us, for

Salmond was as dear and intimate with us as our own

Ifamily.  have just opened his will, and find he has

nominated me as his sole executor in the following

Iwords :-- ' appoint my only friend Sir Stamford Raffles
Ito be my executor, and pray to God he will take charge

of my estate and children.' The loss of poor Salmond is

quite a death-blow to the settlement. How is it that all

we love and esteem, all those whose principles we admire,

and in whom we can place confidence, are thus carried off",

while the vile and worthless remain ?

" Sophia is recovering slowly from her late illness, but

Ishe has suffered severely.  am much the same in health,

but we are both low in spirits. Would that a ship had

Icome out as wrote for direct, that we might have

been off !

   " We have as yet heard nothing of the Fame, nor is

there any opportunity besides her likely to offer."

                                    TO DR. WALLICH.

                                                  " Bencoolen, November 24, 1823.

   " You will grieve to hear that we have just lost our

worthy, inestimable friend Captain Salmond ; he is the
second in our family, and the fourth in our small society
who has paid the debt of nature within the last month !
Would to God we were ourselves fairly out of the place !

312 DEATH OF SIR STAMFORD'S YOUNGEST CHILD.

Sophia recovers but very slowly from her late dangerous

illness, and these events cast a sad and melancholy gloom

Iover everything.      write these few lines at her very par

ticular request, to remind you of my picture. Whether I

Igo home or not, must, if Lady Raffles survives, send

her home by an early opportunity.
   " Our united regards and fervent prayers for your

health and happiness.  Believe me always,
                               " Yours affectionately."

                                     TO DR. WAIXICH.

                                                   " Bencooten, December 10, 1823.

  I" We are, am sorry to say, in great distress, having

lost several friends during the last month, but the worst
of all has been the loss of our only remaining child in this
country, at a time when Lady Raffles was herself danger

ously ill with fever. The shock has been too much for

us, and I hardly expect she will get over it. We have

indeed been severely afflicted, and what is worse, we are

both so ill ourselves that neither of us dare quit the room.
   " These circumstances will be a sufficient excuse for

not writing you more fully."

                                to .

                                                  " Bencoolen, December 20, 1823.

   " You will grieve to hear that we have had another

Iaffliction in the loss of our dear babe, whose birth for

merly announced.
   " She was carried off very suddenly, and at a moment

ANXIETY ABOUT LEAVING BENCOOLEN.            313

when we were least prepared to meet such a shock. The
death of poor Salmond and Mr. Drummond, besides
several other deaths in the settlement, had cast a gloom

over everything, and Sophia was but very slowly recover
ing from a severe inflammatory fever which nearly proved
fatal. The loss of an infant only a few months old is one
of those things which in itself perhaps might soon be got

over, knowing how uncertain life is at that period, but
this loss of our fourth and only remaining child in India
has revived all former afflictions, and been almost too

much for us. Fortunately Sophia's fever has not re

turned since the event, and upon the whole she is in

better health than she was preceding, but she has not yet
left the house ; her spirits, as well as my own, are com
pletely broken, and most anxious are we to get away from
such a charnel-house, but here we are detained for want of

an opportunity. How often do we wish the Fame had
come out direct --we might have saved this last misfor

tune --but we have neither seen nor heard of her, and

God only knows when the day of our deliverance will

arrive. Either I must go to England or by remaining in

India die.

  If" we are to meet again in this world, it must be

soon after the receipt of this -- till then farewell, and God

grant that you may never be subjected to such misfor

Itunes with your children as we have been.  shall wait a

day or two in writing to Cheltenham, in hope of having

better spirits than to-day."

314 sir Stamford's anxiety to rkturn to England.

                                to .
                                                  " Bencoolen, January 4, 1 824.

   " We have entered the new year, and as yet no accounts
of the Fame. You can hardly imagine to yourself the

serious disappointment to all our hopes and plans which
this occasions. We begin to think we are doomed to end

our days here, and that there is something like a spell
upon our movements. After Sophia's severe illness and
our last affliction, the delay of a day is most serious, and

night and day we cannot help regretting that you have
not insured a ship on the strength of my letters to you.

I relied exclusively on what you would do, and still have

no other hope than that the Fame will be in time to save
our lives, though we have very little confidence that this
will be the case."

*                          -.

     to

                                             " Bencoolen, January 14, 1824.

I I" have, before embark, to wind up all my affairs.

   " God grant that we may have a happy and satisfactory

Imeeting in old England, for which may in truth say my

heart yearneth much indeed and sadly.
   " We are such poor creatures, that, like the aspen leaf,

we shake with every breath of air, and are daily treading

on the edge of eternity."

   Months having elapsed beyond the time fixed for the
arrival of the ship Fame, which was to carry Sir Stamford

BURNING OF THE F\ME.  315

and his family to England, without any accounts of her,
he determined to take the cargo out of the Borneo, a small
vessel which had touched at Bencoolen on her passage to
England, and in which he had two years before sent home
his infant child ; but the very day the arrangement was
to have been completed (fortunately, it was then supposed)
the Fame arrived. The Borneo made a safe and good
passage; of the fate of the Fame Sir Stamford's own
letters give an account : it is only necessary to add, that
the ship was insured, which prevented any loss to the
owners --that the captain had no interest in her--that the
East India Company had only a few tons of saltpetre on
board for ballast --that the loss fell entirely on the indivi
dual, whom it pleased God to humble by the overwhelming

calamity.

                                                     "Bencoolen, February 4, 1824.

   " We embarked on the 2d instant in the Fame, and

sailed at day -light for England with a fair wind, and every
prospect of a quick and comfortable passage.

   " The ship was everything we could wish ; and having

closed my charge here much to my satisfaction, it was one
of the happiest days of my life. We were, perhaps, too

happy ; for in the evening came a sad reverse. Sophia

Ihad just gone to bed, and had thrown off half my

clothes, when a cry of fire, fire ! roused us from our calm

content, and in five minutes the whole ship was in flames !

I ran to examine whence the flames principally issued, and

316 BURNING OF THE FAME.

found that the fire had its origin immediately under our

cabin. Down with the boats. Where is Sophia? --Here.

The children ?--Here. A rope to the side. Lower Lady

Raffles. Give her to me, says one ; I'll take her, says the
Captain. Throw the gunpowder overboard. It cannot be

got at ; it is in the magazine close to the fire. Stand clear of

the powder. Skuttle the water-casks. Water ! water !

Where's Sir Stamford ? Come into the boat, Nilson !

Nilson, come into the boat. Push off, push off. Stand

clear of the after part of the ship.

  I" All this passed much quicker than can write it ; we

pushed off, and as we did so, the flames burst out of our

cabin-window, and the whole of the after part of the ship

was in flames; the masts and sails now taking fire, we

moved to a distance sufficient to avoid the immediate ex

plosion ; but the flames were now coming out of the main

hatchway; and seeing the rest of the crew, with the

Captain, still on board, we pulled back to her under the
bows, so as to be more distant from the powder. As we

approached we perceived that the people on board were

getting into another boat on the opposite side. She

pushed off ; we hailed her : Have you all on board ? Yes,

all, save one. Who is he ?--Johnson, sick in his cot.
Can we save him ?--No, impossible. The flames were

issuing from the hatchway; at this moment the poor

Ifellow, scorched, imagine, by the flames, roared out most

Ilustily, having run upon the deck.  will go for him, says

the Captain. The two boats then came together, and we

BURNING OF THE FAME.  317

took out some of the persons from the Captain's boat,

which was overladen ; he then pulled under the bowsprit
of the ship, and picked the poor fellow up. Are you all
safe ?--Yes, we have got the man ; all lives safe. Thank
God ? Pull off from the ship. Keep your eye on a star
Sir Stamford. There's one scarcely visible.

   " We then hauled close to each other, and found the

Captain fortunately had a compass, but we had no light
except from the ship. Our distance from Bencoolen we

estimated to be about fifty miles in a south-west direction.
There being no landing place to the southward of Ben

coolen, our only chance was to regain that port. The
Captain then undertook to lead, and we to follow, in a
N.N.E. course, as well as we could ; no chance, no possi
bility being left, that we could again approach the ship ;
for she was now one splendid flame, fore and aft, and aloft,
her masts and sails in a blaze, and rocking to and fro,
threatening to fall in an instant. There goes her mizen
mast ! Pull away, my boys ! There goes the gunpowder !
Thank God ! thank God !

   "You may judge of our situation without further parti

culars. The alarm was given at about twenty minutes

past eight, and in less than ten minutes she was in flames :

there was not a soul on board at half-past eight, and in less
than ten minutes afterwards she was one grand mass of fire.

   " My only apprehension was the want of boats to hold

the people, as there was not time to have got out the long

boat, or to make a raft. All we had to rely upon were two

3 IS  BURNING OF THE FAME.

small quarter-boats, which fortunately were lowered with
out accident ; and in these two small open boats, without
a drop of water or grain of food, or a rag of covering, ex
cept what we happened at the moment to have on our
backs, we embarked on the ocean, thankful to God for his
mercies ! Poor Sophia, having been taken out of her bed
had nothing on but a wrapper, neither shoes nor stockings ;
the children were just as taken out of bed, whence one had
been snatched after the flames had attacked it ; in short,
there was not time for any one to think of more than two

things. Can the ship be saved ?--No. Let us save our
selves, then. All else was swallowed up in one grand ruin.

   " To make the best of our misfortune, we availed our
selves of the light from the ship to steer a tolerably good
course towards the shore. She continued to burn till

about midnight, when the saltpetre which she had on
board took fire, and sent up one of the most splendid and
brilliant flames that ever was seen, illumining the horizon
in every direction, to an extent of not less than fifty miles,
and casting that kind of blue light over us, which is of all
others most horrible. She burnt and continued to flame

in this style for about an hour or two, when we lost sight
of the object in a cloud of smoke.

   " Neither Nilson nor Mr. Bell, our medical friend who
had accompanied us, had saved their coats ; but the tail of
mine, with a pocket-handkerchief, served to keep Sophia's
feet warm, and we made breeches for the children with our
neckcloths. Rain now came on, but fortunately it was

BURNING OF THE FAME.  319

not of long continuance, and we got dry again. The night
became serene and star-light : we were now certain of our

course, and the men behaved manfully ; they rowed inces

santly, and with good heart and spirit, and never did poor

mortals look out more for day-light and for land than we did;
not that our sufferings or grounds of complaint were any

thing to what has befallen others ; but from Sophia's deli

cate health, as well as my own, and the stormy nature of

Iour coast, felt perfectly convinced we were unable to

undergo starvation and exposure to sun and weather many

Idays, and aware of the rapidity of the currents, feared

we might fall to the southward of the port.

   " At day -light we recognized the coast and Rat Island,

which gave us great spirits ; and though we found our
selves much to the southward of the port, we considered
ourselves almost at home. Sophia had gone through the
night better than could have been expected, and we con

tinued to pull on with all our strength. About eight or
nine we saw a ship standing to us from the Roads ; they
had seen the flames on shore, and sent out vessels to our
relief ; and here certainly came a minister of Providence
in the character of a minister of the Gospel, for the first

Iperson recognized was one of our missionaries. They

gave us a bucket of water, and we took the Captain on
board as a pilot. The wind, however, was adverse, and

 we could not reach the shore, and took to the ship, where

we got some refreshment and shelter from the sun. By

 this time Sophia was quite exhausted, fainting continually.

320 BURNING OF THE FAME.

About two o'clock we landed safe and sound, and no words

of mine can do justice to the expressions of feeling, sym
pathy, and kindness with which we were hailed by every one.

If any proof had been wanting, that my administration had

been satisfactory here, we had it unequivocally from all ;

there was not a dry eye, and as we drove back to our

former home, loud was the cry of ' God be praised.'

  I" But enough ; and will only add, that we are now

greatly recovered, in good spirits, and busy at work

getting ready-made clothes for present use. We went

Ito bed at three in the afternoon, and did not awake till

six this morning. Sophia had nearly as sound a sleep,
and, with the exception of a bruise or two, and a little pain

in the bones from fatigue, we have nothing to complain of.

  I" The loss have to regret, beyond all, is my papers and

drawings,^all my notes and observations, with memoirs

and collections, sufficient for a full and ample history, not
only of Sumatra, but of Borneo, and almost every other
Island of note in these seas ;--my intended account of the
establishment of Singapore ,--the history of my own ad
ministration ;--eastern grammars, dictionaries, and voca
bularies ;--and last, not least, a grand map of Sumatra,

Ion which had been employed since my arrival here,
Iand on which, for the last six months, had bestowed

almost my whole undivided attention. This, however,
was not all ; -- all my collections in natural history, --
all my splendid collection of drawings, upwards of two
thousand in number, --with all the valuable papers and

         BURNING OF THE FAME.     321

notes of my friends, Arnold and Jack ; and, to conclude,

I will merely notice, that there was scarce an unknown

animal, bird, beast, or fish, or an interesting plant, which

we had not on board : a living tapir, a new species of

tiger, splendid pheasants, &c., domesticated for the

voyage ; we were, in short, in this respect, a perfect

Noah's ark.
   " All, all has perished ; but, thank God, our lives have

been spared, and we do not repine.
    " Our plan is to get another ship as soon as possible,

Iand, think, you may still expect us in July. There is a

chance of a ship, called the Lady Flora, touching here on

her way home, and there is a small ship in the Roads

which may be converted into a packet, and take us home,

Ias have a captain and crew at command.

   " Make your minds easy about us, even if we should be

later than you expected. No news will be good news."

A striking proof of the attachment of those who had no

longer any interested motive to influence them deserves
to be recorded. After the boat which contained Sir

Stamford and his family got within sight of the shore, the

numerous little native craft, which were all in requisition

at the moment, approached in every direction with great

velocity, and the people put, without exception, this one

question : " Is the Tuan Besar (the great man) safe V
Receiving an affirmative answer, they darted off as if

there was no other point of interest to them.

VOL. H.                        y

322 ORIGIN OF THE FIRE.

   In writing to the Court of Directors on this subject,
Sir Stamford states :--

   " The fire had its origin in the store-room, immediately
under the apartments occupied by myself and family,
and was occasioned by the shameful carelessness of the
steward going with a naked light to draw off brandy from

Ia cask, which took fire ; but am bound to speak in the

highest terms of the conduct of the captain, officers, and
ship's company, who spared no exertions to save the ship,
and when that was found impracticable, to secure the
lives of all on board, acting throughout with the utmost
coolness and self-possession which such a moment would
admit of.

   " We had scarcely time to lower two small boats hang
ing over the quarter, before the whole of the poop was on
fire, and the flames had ascended the mizen-rigging. So
rapid, indeed, was the progress of the fire, that before
even a small canoe could be got out forward, the flames
were issuing from the main and fore hatchways, and we
were of necessity forced to trust our lives, forty-one in
number, to the mercy of the waves, in these two open
boats, quitting the ship in such haste, that it was impos
sible to save a single article, or even to secure a drop of
water, or other refreshment. We were fortunate enough,
however, to push off from the ship before the magazine
exploded, when the fire immediately became general over
the whole ship, the masts and sails flaming, and rocking

LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.  323

to and fro, till they fell one by one, affording, in the dark
ness of the night, and in the midst of the ocean, one of

the most truly awful and sublime spectacles that ever was

witnessed.

   " We estimated that our distance from the shore could

not exceed fifty miles, and that by steering towards
Sumatra, and in the direction of Bencoolen, we might

possibly regain that port, should the weather continue mo
derate ; and accordingly adopted this course, the captain
leading in the larger boat of the two. This indeed was the

only chance, for if carried to the southward there was no

other landing-place on the Island, and we must inevitably
have perished at sea by the most horrible of all deaths,
there not being a drop of water or other refreshment in
either of the boats-- not a mast or sail, but imperfect
rudders, and most of us without even a complete suit of

clothes. My wife had been taken from her bed without

shoes or stockings, or other covering but a loose wrapper,
and the children under our charge had been literally
snatched from their beds when actually in flames.

   " It however pleased the Almighty Disposer of events

to temper his judgments with mercy, and to allay the
storms and currents which so constantly prevail in these
seas during the present monsoon ; and through the steady
and great exertions of the men in the boats, we had the
satisfaction to make the land in the morning, within
about fifteen miles from Bencoolen. The flames from the

ship, which had served to assist us in keeping a direct

                                                        y2

324  LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.

course to the land, had likewise been seen on shore,
illumining a circumference of not less than fifty miles,
and boats had been sent out in every direction to our
assistance. By the aid of one of these we reached Ben-
coolen about four o'clock in the afternoon of the next day,

after having had to contend with an unfavourable current,
and latterly a turbulent sea and adverse wind, for upwards
of sixteen hours, every moment of which, under our desti
tute circumstances and the boisterous nature of this coast,
was pregnant with a degree of anxiety and apprehension

not to be described. The state both of Lady Raffles and
myself, already worn down by illness and affliction to the
last stage of existence, was ill calculated to support the
privations and exposure to which we were subjected, and
long before we reached the harbour she had fallen into a
succession of fainting fits, from which we with difficulty

recovered her.

   " It may however be satisfactory to state, in concluding

this melancholy account, that no lives have been lost, and
that the whole of the ship's company and passengers have
reached this port in safety, thankful to the Almighty for
his mercies.

   " Submitting, as it is my duty to do, with patient re

signation to this awful dispensation of Providence, I

make the following statement, not in the spirit of com

Iplaint, for repine not, but simply as illustrative of my

personal circumstances and prospects, as they stand
affected by this dire and unlooked-for calamity.

LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.            325

   " After a service of nearly thirty years, and the exercise

of supreme authority as a Governor for nearly twelve

years of that period, over the finest and most interesting,

I Ibut perhaps least known countries in creation, had, as

vainly thought, closed my Indian life with benefit to my

country, and satisfaction to myself; carrying with me

Isuch testimonials and information as trusted would have
Iproved that had not been an unprofitable servant or a

dilatory labourer in this fruitful and extensive vineyard.
   " This lovely and highly-interesting portion of the

globe had, politically speaking, long sunk into insignifi
cance from the withering effects of that baneful policy
with which the Hollanders were permitted to visit these

regions, when it fell to my lot to direct the course of the
British arms to the Island of Java, and there on the

ruins of monopoly, torture, and oppression, in all its

shapes, to re-establish man in his native rights and pre
rogatives, and re-open the channel of an extensive com
merce. Political events required our secession from that
quarter, but the establishment of Singapore, and the

reforms introduced on this coast, have no less afforded

opportunities for the application and extension of the

same principles.            measures,  numerous and

  " In the course of those

weighty responsibilities became necessary ; the European

world --the Indian world --(the continental part of it at

least) --were wholly uninformed of the nature of these

Icountries, their character, and resources.  did not hesi

326  LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.         »

tate to take these responsibilities as the occasion required

them; and though from imperfect information many of

Imy measures in Java were at first condemned,     had the

satisfaction to find them in the end not only approved but

applauded, far beyond my humble pretensions, and even

Iby those who at first had been most opposed to me.

need refer to no stronger case than that of the Marquis of

Hastings.
   " During the last six years of my administration, and

Isince have ceased to have any concern in the affairs of
IJava, the situations in which have been placed, and the
Iresponsibilities which have been compelled to take in

support of the interests of my country, and of my em

ployers, have been, if possible, still greater than during

I Imy former career : allude to the struggle which have

felt it my duty to make against Dutch rapacity and power,

Iand to the difficulties that had to contend with in the

establishment of Singapore, and the reforms which have

been effected on this coast.

   " In addition to the opposition of avowed enemies to

IBritish power and Christian principles, had to contend

with deep-rooted prejudices, and the secret machinations
of those who dared not to act openly ; and standing alone,
the envy of some and the fear of many, distant authorities
were unable to form a correct estimate of my proceedings.
Without local explanation some appeared objectionable,

while party spirit and Dutch intrigue have never been

wanting to discolour transactions and misrepresent facts.

LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.  327

  I" It was at the close of such an administration that

embarked with my family on the Fame, carrying with me
endless volumes and papers of information on the civil

and natural history of nearly every island within the

Malayan Archipelago, collected at great expense and
labour, under the most favourable circumstances, during
a life of constant and active research, and in an especial

manner calculated to throw light not only on the com
mercial and other resources of these islands, but to ad

vance the state of natural knowledge and science, and
finally to extend the civilization of mankind.

    " These, with all my books, manuscripts, drawings,

correspondence, records, and other documents, including
tokens of regard from the absent, and memorials from
the dead, have been all lost for ever in this dreadful con

Iflagration ; and am left single and unaided, without

the help of one voucher to tell my story, and uphold

Imy proceedings, when appear before your Honourable

Court.

  " It has always appeared to me that the value of these

countries was to be traced rather through the means of
their natural history, than in the dark recesses of Dutch

Idiplomacy and intrigue ; and accordingly, at all times,

felt disposed to give encouragement to those deserving
men who devote themselves to the pursuits of science.

ILatterly, when political interests seemed to require that

should, for a time, retire from the field, and there was

little more to be done for this small settlement, I have

328  LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.

myself devoted a considerable portion of my time to these

pursuits, and in forming extensive collections in natural
history : my attention had also been directed in a par
ticular manner to the geography of the Island of Su
matra.

  I" To be brief, may sum up the collections and papers
Iwhich have had the misfortune to lose, under the follow

ing heads. They were carefully packed in no less than
one hundred and twenty-two cases, independent of those
for immediate reference, but which last are also lost, not

one scrap of paper having been saved, or one duplicate
left:--

  " Of Sumatra. --A map on a large scale, constructed

during a residence of six years, from observations made

by myself and persons under my authority, European
and native, calculated to exhibit, at one view, the real

nature and general resources of the country, on a very
different scale to what was formerly supposed; together
with statistical reports, tables, memoirs, notices, histories
of the Battas, and other original races, native and Euro
pean vocabularies, dictionaries, and manuscripts in the
different languages, contained in several cases.

   " Of Borneo. --A detailed account of the former history,

present state, population, and resources, of that long-
neglected island, already drawn out to the extent of up
wards of one thousand pages of writing, with numerous
notes, sketches, details of the Dayak population, their
government, customs, history, usages, &c., with notices of

LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.               329

the different ports, their produce, and commercial re

sources.                                        of the

   " Of Celebes. --Nearly a similar account.
   " And of Java and the Moluccas. --The whole

voluminous history, as carefully abstracted from the Dutch

Iarchives while was in Java, with careful translations of

the most valuable native books, vocabularies, memoirs,

and various papers intended principally to assist in a new

edition of my History of Java.

  " Of Singapore.--A detailed account of its establish

ment ; the principles on which it is founded ; the policy

of our Government in founding it ; the history of com

merce in the Eastern Islands ; its present state and pro
spects ; the rapid rise of Singapore ; its history until 1

gave over charge; with all the original documents con

nected with the discussion with the Dutch, and every

voucher and testimony which could have been required to

Imake good the British claim, and uphold the measures

had adopted.

   " In Natural History the loss to myself and to science

has been still greater. The choicest, the cream and flower

Iof all my collections, retained to take under my personal

charge, together with the manuscripts and papers of my
invaluable deceased friends, Drs. Arnold and Jack.

IAmong these also was that invaluable, and may say,

superb collection of drawings in natural history, executed

under my immediate eye, and intended, with other inte

resting subjects of natural history, for the museum of the

330  LETTER TO THE COUKT OF DIRECTORS.

 Honourable Court. They exceeded in number two thou

 sand ; and having been taken from life, and with scientific

 accuracy, were executed in a style far superior to anything

I had seen or heard of in Europe ; in short, they were my

 pride : but as man has no business to be proud, it may be
 well that they are lost. Cases of plants, minerals, animals,

I&c. &c., shall not name.

    " Indeed it would be endless for me to attempt even a

Igeneral description of all that has perished ; and will only

 add that, besides the above, all the papers connected with
my administration of Java, as collected and arranged by
my deceased friend and secretary, Mr. Assey, have also

 been lost, with all my correspondence.

  I" A loss like this can never be replaced, but bow to it

without repining.

    " In a pecuniary point of view, my loss has not been

less extensive, as may be perceived by the annexed state

Iment, in which have assumed the actual cost of the prin

cipal articles which have been sacrificed. Most of them

are what no money can replace ; such as the service of
plate presented to me by the inhabitants of Java; the
diamonds presented to my family by the captors of Djoc-

jocarta ; the diamond ring presented to me by the Princess
Charlotte on my embarkation for India, a week before her

death. These and many other tokens of regard, friendship,
and respect, during an active and varied life, can never be re

placed. Money may compensate perhaps for other losses,

but no insurance was, or could be, effected from home. It

LETTER TO THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.  331

rests solely and exclusively with the Court to consider in

how far my claims, on account of services, may be strength

ened by the severity of misfortune which has latterly

attached itself to my case.

   " The anxiety and fatigue occasioned by the calamitous

Ievent which have detailed have been such, that however
Imuch may feel desirous, from motives of pecuniary ne

cessity, to prolong my stay in India, in the hope of

replacing, in part, some of the personal property which

I Ihave lost, dare not look forward to such a measure,
Iand am under the necessity of taking advantage of the

first opportunity that offers of proceeding to Europe,

Iwhere shall throw myself on your Honourable Court

to enable me to end my days in honourable retirement,

trusting to an all-bounteous Providence to restore me

and my family to health and peace in my native land.

   I" In the mean time have thought it my duty to re

sume charge of the Company's affairs on this coast, and

have advised the Supreme Government accordingly.

  I" With a former letter had the honour to submit a

copy of the address which was presented to me on the

occasion of my departure for Europe, with the reply

Iwhich have felt myself called upon to make on so favour

 able an expression of the public feeling ; and it is now

Iwith satisfaction that transmit, for the perusal of your

 Honourable Court, the address of condolence which was

presented to me on my unexpected return under such a

 sad reverse of fortune.

332  LETTEH TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

" In expressing my deepfelt gratitude to the inha

bitants of this settlement, for their sympathy in our suf

Iferings, and genuine hospitality,     can only say, that

having been thrown back on their shores most unex

pectedly,--We were naked, and they clothed us, --hungry
and athirst, and they fed us,-- weary and exhausted, and

Ithey comforted and consoled us ; and pray to God that

your Honourable Court, as the immediate guardian of

their interests, will bless this land of Sumatra in return,

even for their sakes.

                I" have the honour to be,

                                     " Honourable Sirs,

     " Your devoted, sincere, and faithful servant,

     (Signed)                          " T. S. Raffles.

"Fort Marlborough, February 8, 1824."

                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                   " Bencoolen, February 20, 1824.

   " We have just suffered a sad calamity, but as we have
been so long inured to misfortune, it perhaps falls more
lightly upon us than it would otherwise have done. Time
does not admit of my writing a long letter, and, therefore,

II take the liberty of enclosing a copy of what have

written at the moment, and in great haste, but which will

afford you all particulars.

  I" have this day engaged another ship, in which we

hope to have better fortune, but she will not be able to
sail till the end of next month.

LETTER TO DR. WALLICH.  333

  " It was not enough that we should have the dangers

of storms, rocks, and seas to contend with ; but another

element must rise up against us : earth, air, fire, water,

Iall combined to oppose our progress ! But will not

despair.

   " Pray excuse the brevity of this. In truth, it is with

Ithe utmost difficulty hold the pen."

TO DR. WALLICH.

" My dear Friend,  "Bencoolen, March 28, 1824.

         " You will have heard of our dreadful misfortune

Ilong before this reaches you, and therefore shall not
Ienter into particulars further than by stating, that have

lost all and everything belonging to me save my wife.
We, thank God, escaped by a miracle, and are grateful to

Providence for so wonderful a deliverance.

   " The whole of my drawings, between two or three

thousand ; all my collections, descriptions, and papers of

every kind ; all those of our invaluable friend Jack, with

Ievery document and memorandum that possessed on

earth, fell a prey to the all-devouring flame.

  " A subsequent attempt to get home in the Wellington

has failed in success ; for after taking her up, and being

prepared to embark, the commander most suddenly
and unexpectedly went out of his mind, and is now

raving mad.
   " This, in fact, was the third ship we had engaged, and

334 EXERTIONS OF SIR STAMFORD.

Iin which something occurred to check our progress.

have now engaged a fourth, the Mariner, a small Botany
Bay ship, to take home the crew and passengers of the
unfortunate ship Fame, and God grant we may be more
successful in her. We hope to embark on her in the
course of the week, and once more to trust ourselves to
the mercy of the elements.

  " If it pleases God that we should arrive in England,
you will hear from me ere long, and I shall not fail to
Iinform you of all think likely to interest you.

  I" Adieu ! and excuse haste. All have time to add is

Ia repetition of what have often said before, and will con

tinue to say till my dying day : God bless you, and be
assured of my devoted friendship and affection.

   " Lady Raffles sends thanks for having kept my
picture so long, as it otherwise would have been lost,
with everything else, by the Fame."

    So heavy a misfortune was sufficient to have depressed
the spirit and damped the ardour of the strongest mind ;
but it seemed to have no other effect on that of Sir
Stamford than to rouse him to greater exertion. The
morning after the loss of all that he had been collecting
for so many years, with such unwearied zeal, interest, and
labour, he recommenced sketching the map of Sumatra, set
all his draughtsmen to work in making new drawings of
some of the most interesting specimens in natural history,
dispatched a number of people into the forests to collect

CONDUCT OF THE SAILORS.  335

more animals, and neither murmur nor lamentation ever

escaped his hps ; on the contrary, upon the ensuing Sab
bath, he publicly returned thanks to Almighty God, for
having preserved the lives of all those who had for some
time contemplated a death from which there appeared no

human probability of escaping. And here the Editor

cannot forbear offering her testimony to the admirable
conduct of the sailors. When Sir Stamford first got into
the boat, and they were requested to move to a little dis

tance, a slight murmur took place at the idea of desert
ing their comrades, but on being assured that the only

object was to choose the easiest death, they one and all
yielded in perfect silence, and calmly watched the success
of an effort to lower another boat ; nor did they afterwards
indulge in any complaint, but toiled with the greatest
good humour, sometimes laughing at the Purser and the
Steward, on whom they laid the blame of the accident ;
sometimes expressing pity for " the lady," and comforting
themselves with the idea that they were not much worse
off than they were before. When the boat approached
the shore, they entreated that they might be indulged in
the pleasure of landing the party in safety, only request

ing first --to have some water ; and when a large bucket
full was lowered from the side of the vessel which came

to meet the boats, the eager rush with which they plunged
their heads into it will easily be imagined when it is re
collected that they had been working for eighteen hours,
without intermission, against a strong current, and in a

33G  EXTRACT FROM HIS MEMORANDUM BOOK.

tropical climate. Some idea may be formed of the danger
which the boats were in, when it is stated that there
was no handle to the rudder ; and that the only way of
stopping the aperture in the bottom of the boat was by
one of the men keeping his thumb in it ; as he often fell
asleep and forgot his office, the water would rush in, and
the boat was frequently nearly filled with water and in a
sinking state. So crammed was it with people, that none
of those who were not engaged in rowing could, during
these many hours, move either hand or foot.

   Though Sir Stamford's health received a severe shock
by this calamity, the following extract from his memoran
dum book, on his second embarkation, affords another
proof that the energy of his mind was not shaken, nor the
buoyancy of his spirit broken.

   " On the 8th April embarked in the Mariner, and on

the morning of the 10th weighed and sailed for England
in that ship, in company with the Lady Flora, Captain
M'Donnel. She, however, kept to windward and parted

from us during the night ; a few days afterwards she came

in company again, but on the 20th we again lost sight
of her.

  I" 20th April. -- this day commenced to apply to study,

and devoted the early part of the morning to Euclid, and
the remainder to the arrangement of my papers, &c. As

Ifar as circumstances admit, propose to divide my time

and application as follows, during the voyage : appro

          EXTRACT FROM HIS MEMORANDUM BOOK".      337

priating eight hours in each day to study, reading, or
writing, and with an intention of making up one day for

any loss of time on another.                      hours 2

   " Breakfast being fixed at 9 and dinner at 4,

I appropriate, before breakfast, from 7 to 9 .

   " Between breakfast and dinner, from 10 to 1

and from 9 to 4  ...           .                  ,,5

" In the evening, from 8 to 9  ..                 ,,I

                               hours              8

   " Before breakfast. -- One hour mathematics or logic --

one hour Latin, Greek, or Hebrew.
   "After breakfast, from 10 to 11. -- In committing to

Ipaper and arranging and reviewing what studied before

breakfast.

   "From 11 to 1. --Writing an account of my administra

tion in the East.
   " From 2 to 4. -- General reading and reading out to

Sophia.

   " In the evening for one hour. --Reading a play of

Shakspeare's, or other entertaining productions.

I" By this arrangement, have, in the morning, by rising

at 6, one hour for exercise before breakfast, and half an

hour for the same after breakfast. One hour from 1 to

2 for tiffin and exercise, and after dinner from 5 to 7,

Wo hours for exercise or relaxation in the cool of the

evening. As the servants are always behindhand in fur-

VOL. II.                              z

338  EXTRACT FROM HIS MEMORANDUM BOOK.

Inishing the meals, may freely trust to their affording me

 time for dressing by such delays, which will only eventu
 ally break in on the proposed three hours' relaxation for
the evening, a portion of which may well be spared ; or
half an hour may be added to the day by going to bed at
half past 9 or 10, instead of 9 as proposed.

  I" My object in making this memorandum is, that may
Ihold the rules as inviolable as can, and by frequently
Irecurring to it, revive my sleeping energies, should at
Iany time be inclined to indolence. should not, however,

omit to add, that all reading and study on a Sunday is to
be confined to the Bible and religious subjects. The
Greek and Hebrew, however, as connected, may never
theless form a part of the study of that day.

   "25th June, 1824. -- Arrived at St. Helena on the after
noon of the 25th of June, after a passage of eleven weeks

fromBencoolen, and encountering constant and severe gales
off the Cape of Good Hope during three weeks of that
period. The gale was so severe, that during this period

we were unable to leave our cots, the sea poured through
the decks into our cabin, and the war of the wind was

such that we could not hear each other speak. Lady
Baffles, though boarded up in her couch, was obliged
to have ropes to hold by to prevent her knocking from
one side of it to the other: the ship lay like a wreck
upon the ocean at the mercy of the winds and waves, and

we resigned ourselves to the feeling that our pilgrimage
in this world was soon to close."

STORM OFF THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.  339

    Those who have never experienced such a scene can
form no idea of the severity of the gale. Captain Young,
who had passed the cape nineteen times, declared he had

never witnessed anything like it; nor can the Editor
ever forget one night, on which Captain Herbert, (for

all on board were worn out with fatigue and watching,)
as he retired to take a little rest, desired the officer on

the watch to observe in one particular direction, and call
him the moment he saw the smallest speck in the horizon ;
the Captain then came to tell Sir Stamford that the ship

still held well together. It was a dreadful night, the

sky appeared a heavy dense arch, threatening to fall
with its own weight, and crush everything beneath it,
save in one spot, where a full moon of the deepest blood

red shed an unnatural crimson hue that just rendered the

darkness visible. It was not long before the expected

mark appeared, and before the Captain could get on deck,
the fury of the wind was sweeping away all before it.

   "Landed the evening of the 25th of June, and the
next morning were kindly received by General and Mrs.
Walker, with whom we remained at Plantation-house

during our stay.

   " Sailed from St. Helena the 3d of July, and crossed
the Line the 12th of July, 1824.

   "There are some souls bright and precious, which,

like gold and silver, may be subdued by the fiery trial, and
yield to a new mould ; but there are others firm and solid

                                                                         z2

340  ARRIVAL AT ST. HELENA.

as the diamond, which may be shivered to pieces, yet in
every fragment retain their indelible character.''

                     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                               " St. Helena, June 26, 1824.

" Thank God we are once more on the right side of the

Cape of Good Hope, with a fair prospect of a favourable

passage home. After being eleven weeks at sea, and suf

fering a dreadful gale of three whole weeks off the Cape,

we landed here last night.  *  *  *  *

I" have neither time nor spirits to say more than that

we are alive and tolerably well, and have a hope to reach

England in August. My health and strength are entirely

I Igone, but trust have yet enough spirit to bear up for
Ithe voyage. To complete our sorrow, have just received

an account of the death of my dear mother, an event for

Iwhich had for some time been prepared, but which has

Ibeen a sad stroke at such a moment, just as felt the

possibility of once more embracing her, and cheering her

latter hours : but God's will be done.
   " We propose, wind and weather permitting, to land at

Plymouth, and from thence to cross the country, through
Exeter and Bath to Cheltenham, where Lady Raffles'

family are at present residing.

  I" mention this, because, next to the duty and inclina
Ition feel to place my dear wife in the bosom of her

Ianxious family, am led to look towards you and yours.

ARRIVAL AT ST. HELENA.                341

   " Pray excuse this hasty scrawl ; my eyes are quite

Iblinded with tears, and my hand is so nervous that can

scarcely hold my pen."

                     TO MR. MARSDEN.

" My dear Sir,       dreadful       " St. Helena, July 3, 1824.
        " After our
                               Imisfortune you will, am

sure, be glad to hear that we have at length reached this

place in safety, and that with the blessing of Providence
we hope to be with you in the course of the next month.

My constitution is sadly broken, and the last accident has

given both Lady Raffles and myself so severe a shock,

that we have with difficulty been able to bear up; but

the change of scene within the last few days, and the
kind attentions of General and Mrs. Walker, added to

the near prospect of home, have again cheered us, and we

will yet hope that there may be many happy days in store

for us.

   " As the account of the loss of the Fame by fire will,

Ino doubt, have reached England before this can arrive,

will not distress you by recurring to the particulars of

that dreadful event, by which, though we fortunately

Iescaped with our lives, have been a sufferer beyond what

it is in my power to express. Nearly one-third of the

Iship was occupied by my collections and packages, and
Ifondly, but vainly, flattered myself that should astonish

you with the extent of our exertions and research, par

342 ARRIVAL AT PLYMOUTH.

ticularly in the departments of natural history, to which

my attention had latterly been so much directed. Our

friends, Sir Everard Home and Dr. Horsfield, will have

Ito regret the loss of many interesting subjects, as had

endeavoured to comply with all their wishes, and suc

ceeded beyond my expectations. You too, my dear Sir,

I Iwill suffer no less; for without vanity may say, that

had collected a body of information regarding Sumatra,

Ithat would have been highly interesting to you.  had

completed a general map of the whole island, with more

detailed particulars of the principal divisions, extensive

I Ivocabularies, &c., and regret to say, that had not

taken the precaution of leaving duplicates behind : of

most it would have been difficult to have done it. It is,
Ihowever, of no use to repine.
                                have set to work again

Iupon the map, but fear it will very imperfectly supply
Ithe place of the one intended for you."

to .

" Plymouth, Sunday, August 22, 1824.

" Here we are, thank God, safe and sound ! We made

the land on the 20th, and landed here this morning,

I am happy to say, in better health than could have

been expected. Yours of the 20th has just been put

Iinto my hands, so that you will perceive have neither

Ilost my punctuality nor my activity.  have a sad

head-ache from the fatigue of landing, and therefore

you must excuse my saying more to-day; but as wc

       ARRIVAL AT PLYMOUTH.     343

Ishall reach Exeter to-morrow,  will write more fully

from thence.

   " Mr. Rosdew is with us, and we shall sleep at Beech-

wood to-night. Sophia will speak for herself, and Nilson

Iis well. My hand is so cramped that cannot hold my

pen."

                 CHAPTER XX.

Sir Stanford lands at Plymouth-- Interview with his child-- Re
   sumes his labours -- Interrupted by ill health-- Views of the civili
   zation and conversion of the heathen -- Retrospect of the proceed
   ings of the Bible Society in Sumatra-- Malay schools preparing
   the way for the Scriptures -- Translation of St. John's Gospel --
   Effect of the transfer of the island to the Dutch --Access to China
   -- Singapore institution -- Sir Stamford's life at home -- The ma
   gistracy -- Sudden illness-- Purchase of Highwood --Judgment of
   the Court of Directors on his administration of Java, Sumatra,
   and Singapore-- His death.

Sir Stamford Raffles landed at Plymouth with health

and strength greatly reduced, and after remaining one
night with Mr. Rosdew, at Beechwood, in whose house he
had last enjoyed the pleasures of social intercourse pre
vious to his departure seven years before, he hurried on
to Cheltenham. The following letters describe his feel

ings at this period :--

                         TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                   " Cheltenham, August 24, 1824.

  I" Once more we are safe at home, and trust it will not
Ibe long before have it in my power to overcome the

short distance which separates us.

INTERVIEW WITH HIS CHILD.                      345

*****I" We are safe, but, am sorry to say, far from sound ;

Ifor my constitution is terribly shattered : nevertheless,

live in confidence that, as the spirit is good, the body will

Iyet mend. How happy shall be to see you once more !
   " Your letter must have arrived at Plymouth the day

Iafter left it. We were most anxious, as you may well

suppose, to throw ourselves into the arms of our family as

soon as possible, and did not remain at Plymouth above

three hours ; but what with assizes, horse-races, air-

balloons, and other festivities of the season, we got on

Iso slowly for the first two days, that was obliged to push

the post-boys from Bath to this place at about thirteen

miles in the hour, until our front wheel caught fire, in

order to satisfy Sophia's impatience to see her child.

IThis has rather fatigued us ; but you will, am sure, be

happy to hear that we have found her all that our fondest

wishes could have desired.

  I I" am unfortunately so troubled with cramp, that

can scarcely hold my pen ; therefore, pray excuse my

writing all that my heart and feelings dictate.
   " How pleasant it is to be near one's friends ; for what

are a hundred miles after fourteen thousand !

I I" Of my future plans in life cannot say that have

I Ifixed any.***
         confess that have a

great desire to turn farmer, and have the vanity to think

I could manage about two hundred acres as well as my
neighbours. With this, I suppose, I should in time be

346  LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

come a country magistrate, an office of all others which I

Ishould delight in ; and if could eventually get a seat in
Iparliament, without sacrificing principle, should be con

tent to pass through the rest of my life without aiming at
any thing further, beyond the occupation of my spare

time in promoting, as far as my humble means and talents
admitted, the pursuits of knowledge and science, and the
advancement of philanthropic and religious principles.

  I" Your Grace will, perhaps, say that have chalked

out for myself a very varied and diversified course ; but

what is life without variety ? and what is existence with

out occupation ?"

     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                      " Cheltenham, October 9, 1824.

   " Your advice is so good, so friendly, and so kind, that

I will at once pledge myself to follow it in everything.

My only wish is not to be idle, but to be useful to the

extent of my means.

                  * * * *#

I" have been engaged for the last two or three days in

drawing out a brief review of my public administration

during the last twelve years. After the loss of all my

documents and records, a paper of this kind becomes the

I Imore interesting.
     hope shall not be found to have

said too much in favour of my own services and preten

Isions ; and yet the countries in which have been placed

have been so new, untrodden, and interesting, and the

LETTER TO MR. MARSDEN.                              347

Isituations in which have been thrown have been so
Ipeculiar and trying, that unless state them myself, few
Iwill either know or understand anything about them.

feel confident that my course has been so straightforward,

that the more light may be thrown upon it, the more

obvious it will appear, and the more creditable it will be

to my character."

                TO MR. MARSDEN.

" My dear Sir,  " Cheltenham, October 22nd, 1824.

I I" have been so unwell since had the pleasure

Ito receive your kind letter, that have been quite unable
Ito answer it till now ; not that have, on the whole, cause

to complain as to the general improvement of my health

Isince my arrival, which,  am happy to say, has been

I Igreater than expected ; but am still occasionally sub

ject to severe attacks in the head, and have been confined

for days together to my bed, from this and a severe cold,

Iwhich for the time incapacitated me from writing.  am,

Ihowever, on my legs again ; and you will, am sure, be

happy to hear that both Lady Raffles and myself already

feel some confidence that we may weather the winter, and

look forward to next summer for the full re-establishment

of our health. Our dear little one we have found every

Ithing the fondest parents could desire ; and would hope we

have at length come to the termination of the long series

of misfortunes, with which it has pleased an all-wise Pro

*****348 sir Stamford's ill health.

 vidence to afflict us of late, and that there is still much

 comfort and happiness in store for us."

                           TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                                  "Cheltenham, October 2.3rd, 1824.

    " Your Grace will have been surprised at my long

Isilence ; have been ill and confined to my bed almost
I Iever since received your last letter, and am only able

to-day to refer to the date, and apologize for not acknow

Iledging it. When Lord Seymour was with us, had

entirely lost my voice from a violent cold ; so that we had

some difficulty in communicating ; but he had hardly left

Ius, than had one of those severe attacks in my head that
Inearly deprived me of reason ; and began to think I
must bid you a long farewell. Thank God, however, I
Iam better; though am hardly able to hold my pen,
Iand which dare not trust except within very close limi
Itation : for believe it was in consequence of using it too
I Imuch on the paper that was drawing up that have to

attribute this unfortunate relapse ; which has thrown me
back in point of health at least two months ; and as winter

is fast approaching time is precious.

  I I" have finished the paper was writing some time ago,

and it is now at the printer's -- it is not exactly what I

could have wished, and the state of my health obliged me
to contract it within very narrow limits, and bring it to a

Iconclusion rather suddenly, and with less spirit than

LETTEK TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.  349

could have wished.  Such as it is, you shall have it in a
few days."

TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

                                          " Cheltenham, November 2nd, 1824.

I I" have corrected the proof of the paper which am

sending in to the Court of Directors, and have desired a

Icopy to be sent to you.  am afraid you will not find it

very interesting ; but as it takes a general view of my

Iservices and the situations in which have been placed, it

may amuse you for half an hour during a dull November
day. You must bear in mind to whom it is addressed, and

the necessity of my keeping within bounds ; as well as

with reference to a body so constituted, as on account of my

own health, which does not admit of my enlarging on the

Isubject. You will see that have pledged myself to give
Ithe public a memoir on Singapore.
                                    hope you will not

Idisapprove of my taking so much blame to myself as
Ihave been willing to do.
                           am ready to justify every act

of my administration, and feel perfectly easy on that score,

Ibut it is for others to judge --not me ; and all am anxious

Ito do is to get the question agitated, as am ready to

stand or fall by the result.

  I" am very sensible of the Duke's kindness, and am
Ionly sorry that give you so much trouble and so little
Isatisfaction. Time was when wanted not strength to
Isecond my will ; but am now, alas ! shattered, and alto

gether unequal to one-thousandth part of all I would wish

or desire to do.

                                                                             -

350  MAPS OF SUMATRA AND SINGAPORE.

   "Promising, with God's help, to be a better corre

Ispondent during the next than have been during the

last week,

                              " I am, &c. &c.,

                                                  " T. S. R.

  I" have put the maps of Sumatra and Singapore into

the hands of an artist this morning, to be constructed
and engraved on a scale to suit a quarto volume."

     TO THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

I" have been following    " Piccadilly, December 9th, 1824.

                          your kind advice --idling and

playing the fool with my time as much as possible.

   " We are beginning to get a little more to rights than

Iwhen you left us, but have only been able to unpack two

cases out of one hundred and seventy-three in course of

transport to the house."

   As soon as Sir Stamford was settled in London, he
commenced an examination, as intimated in the last letter,
into the wreck of the immense collections which he had
had made during the twenty years he had passed in India.
He also designed to arrange his papers ; and whilst India,
with all its varied interests, was fresh in his memory, to

record whatever he thought would promote the general
improvement of mankind, or the particular advantage of
his country ; but his health was so delicate, that he was

BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.  351

prevented from applying himself as he wished to the ob

jects and pursuits which he had most at heart ; the least
exertion of mind or body was followed by days of pain and
sickness, and he was continually regretting how much he

was losing time--how little he was doing for the good of

others.

   The following letter is to the Committee of the British
and Foreign Bible Society. Sir Stamford always conceived
that the idea of converting the natives of India by preaching
only was fallacious, and that the miraculous outpour
ing of the Holy Spirit which attended the first preaching
of the Gospel, and which by its numerous converts were

so multiplied, was not now to be looked for. It was his

conviction that the best means of securing this object was
to civilize and instruct the people, and, together with civi
lization and instruction, convey to them the blessed truths
of the Gospel, trusting that God in his own good time
would bestow upon them that faith in a Redeemer, with
out which all knowledge is vain, and which alone is for the
" healing of nations."

TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE

SOCIETY.

          " February, 1825.

   '' In compliance with the desire expressed by the Com

Imittee, now have the honour to report generally on the

state of the Sumatran Auxiliary Bible Society at the

period of my quitting Bencoolen, and to offer such sug

352 BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.

gestions as occur to me, with a view to the continuance of

its operations under the political changes in that part of
the East.

   "Detailed reports of the proceedings of this Society

from its commencement until January, 1824, were in
trusted to me for the Parent Society in England; but,
unfortunately, the whole of these were lost by the destruc

Ition by fire of the ship Fame, on which had embarked

for England ; and, during the confusion attending my

Isecond embarkation from Bencoolen, am sorry to find

Ithat was by no means furnished with a complete series

Ito supply their place ; nevertheless,  will endeavour to

Iconvey to the Committee an outline, as far as bear them

Iin recollection, which hope will be sufficient to prove

that it has not been without its usefulness ; and that  ;I if,

owing to the peculiar circumstances of the place, much

may not have been done in the actual distribution of the

Scriptures, the way had been paved to a considerable

extent and that time alone was wanting to ripen into
effect the operations of those who had entered on the un
   I
dertaking.
   " cannot charge my memory with the exact number ofit ;

Bibles distributed by means of the Auxiliary Society

believe was inconsiderable with reference to the extent

of population but when          considered that previous to
              ;  if

                      it
                            is
its establishment few, any, could read, or had any idea
of the existence of such book, or that Christians had such
                 a

a  boon to confer upon them, this will not be surprising.

          BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.  353

   " At an early period of the Society, my attention was
directed more especially to the necessity of introducing

letters, and, with them, moral and industrious habits were

gradually attended to. The rapid progress made by the

children in the different public schools, afforded an earnest

that perseverance alone, for a few years, was necessary to
effect a complete change in the condition of the people,

and to place within their comprehension the leading

truths of the sacred volume.
   " Although the progress and success of these schools

may not be considered as falling directly within the im

mediate objects of the Bible Society, yet, as without them

we never could have expected that the Bible could have

Ibeen read, may perhaps be permitted to annex to this

memorandum the last report of our School Committee,

which shows that in the immediate vicinity of Bencoolen,

the number of boys who had been taught to read, and

who had been disciplined in regular habits, amounted to

some hundreds ; and that in the dependent districts along

the coast of Sumatra, among a population of not less than

60,000 souls, a considerable anxiety prevailed for the ex

tension of the system.

  I I" may add in truth that never witnessed a more

animating and interesting spectacle than the public exa

mination of the children of Bencoolen. It was one in

which all classes of people united to express their admira

tion and surprise ; and the fair promise which the children

afforded was the most satisfactory earnest of their future

VOL. II.  2A

354 BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.

advancement in civilization and happiness, if good seed

were sown, and the tiller were not idle.
   " Order and industry were more generally introduced

Iamong the adults than in former times ; and have

reason to believe that, throughout, the beneficial changes
effected were considered as springing directly from the
pure motives of a Christian Government, whose principles
the people could not but revere.

   " Thus far, in connexion with, and under the auspices
of, the Bible Society, has the way been prepared for the
reception of the sacred volume on the west coast of
Sumatra. In other parts perhaps little has been done,
owing to the want of means. The Island itself probably
contains a population of not less than three millions ; and
these are for the most part under independent and worse

than semi-barbarous Chiefs.
   " One of the most interesting and promising establish

ments, however, formed in furtherance of these objects,
was at Tappanooly, in the heart of the Batta country;
where Mr. Burton, a Baptist Missionary, has been suc
cessfully established under the protection of the British
Government. This gentleman has already made himself,
in a great measure, master of the Batta language ; and
after translating several tracts into was engaged, at the
period of my leaving Sumatra, in a plan with the Mis
sionaries at Bencoolen, for translating the Gospel of St.
John. Mr. Burton has since that period penetrated,
company with Mr. Ward, into the interior of the Batta
it,
                                    in

                BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.  355

country ; the particulars of their discoveries in this part

Iof Sumatra will, doubt not, soon meet the public eye.

In the mean time it may be satisfactory to state that they

found the population more extensive, and the productions

more valuable than they expected; and that, instead of

finding obstacles and difficulties thrown in their way, they

were universally treated with kindness and hospitality.

They entered the country without disguise, as English

men and Missionaries, and were treated with respect.if,

   " But on one hand, the friends of the Society at Ben-

coolen were anxious to open the eyes and ears of the

ignorant to a knowledge of the Word of God, they were

no less active in endeavouring to prepare the sacred word

in such a form as might most readily and most correctly

meet their conception.
   " Superior knowledge of the languages into which
                ;

                                  it
was to be translated became indispensable and without

entering into the difficulties which stood in the way in this

respect, will merely take the liberty of adverting to the
I
   I
state of the question as concerns the Malay Bible, and

which was, believe, the first specimen of translation
                a

into any of the Eastern languages. The Rev. Mr. Robin

son, whose exertions in promoting the great objects of the

Society, and in cultivating the waste and barren soil of

the native mind with indefatigable industry, entitle him

to the highest praise, has, among other publications for the

use of the schools, recently edited a work on Malay ortho

graphy  ;  in the preface to which he has introduced some

                                                  2a2

356  BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.

observations on this translation, which may deserve the

Iattention of the Committee; and am in consequence

induced to annex the volume ; and at the same time to

refer to the note at the end of the 36th page of the

Introduction.

  "I take this opportunity of forwarding a few copies

of the Gospel of St. John, as rendered into Malay by
Mr. Robinson ; on the merits of which it would be desir

able that a decision should be formed as early as circum
stances admit. The only step, with this view, taken on the
spot was, to submit it to a Committee of two of the senior
civil servants on the Bencoolen establishment, and who were

considered to be the best versed in the Malay language ;
who gave their opinion generally in favour of the transla
tion, and more particularly in support of the orthography

Iadopted by Mr. Robinson. -- do not feel myself prepared

at the present moment to offer any decided advice on the

subject; but as there is every reason to hope that the
Institution, recently established at Singapore, may pros

Iper and become efficient, should think this a point which

might be well considered and adjudged by the collective
knowledge which will be assembled within its walls.

  "I now turn to the probable state of the Auxiliary

Society at Bencoolen, as it will be affected by the transfer
of that settlement to the Dutch, and from the British

withdrawing from the whole of Sumatra on the 1st of

March last, conformably to the treaty.

   "When the last accounts left Bencoolen, the official

BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.  357

advice of the intended transfer had not reached that

settlement ; but sufficient intimation of the probability of

such an event had been received to throw the whole coun

try into a state of the greatest confusion and alarm.
   "The following is an extract from one of the latest

letters, which may serve in some degree to convey an idea
of the apprehension.

   " ' What the effect this change may be upon our mission
it is impossible fully to conjecture ;--but there seems just
cause to fear that it will be attended with some present
evil. The Bible Society, which was to have supported
our translation, will exist no more ; and the liberal sum

which we have hitherto enjoyed for the support of the
native schools will also be withdrawn.'

  I" introduce this extract to show, that, on the spot,

little hope is entertained that, after the British flag is
lowered, there will be any chance of the society at Bencoo-
len holding up its head ; and to submit whether, consider
ing that the British Government has agreed to withdraw
itself in toto from all future concern in the administration

of Sumatra, and has left that Island to the exclusive con

trol of the Netherlands' Government, it might not be
advisable to concert with the Bible Society of the Nether
lands, to receive its special control and care.

  I" should be loth to recommend the abandonment of

any interest by the British and Foreign Bible Society
however distant the hope of success, and more particularly

Iof one, with the rise of which had the satisfaction to take

358 BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.

Isome pains, and with which was in a great measure per
Isonally connected ; but when reflect on the local discus

sions and difficulties which may arise among contending

Iauthorities, jealous even of each other's name, feel that

II am taking a higher and a safer ground, when look

rather to the Netherlands' authority, and to the zeal of
their Bible Society, for carrying into effect the plan which
we have begun in Sumatra.

  If" the Committee should view the question in the same
Ilight, would suggest the advantage of an early and

candid communication being made to the Netherlands'
authorities, and that it should be clearly understood, whe

ther the four missionaries (Baptists) now in Sumatra will
be permitted to remain, and to continue their labours on
the same principle as heretofore, on an assurance of pro

tection on the part of the Dutch Government ; or if not,

whether any and what countenance will be given to them
under the change of circumstances which has taken place ;
or otherwise, whether the Netherlands' Society itself will

undertake the whole duty, and they may withdraw.

  " It would be highly advisable that such an understand

ing should be effected as would effectually prevent the
possibility of clashing on the spot. The Government at

home as well as the Parent Societies, are actuated but by one

common and social cause, and will mutually aid each other ;
but the same spirit is not always predominant abroad ; and

at all events we ought to do everything in our power in Eu

rope to prevent the possibility of misunderstanding them.

BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.  359

   " On the restoration of Java to the Dutch, the Auxiliary
Bible Society established there by the English was allowed
to decline and go into decay ; and it was not until an
offer was made to Mr. Bruchnor, at Samarang, to print a
version of the" Javanese Bible at Bencoolen under his

revision, that the Dutch Government came forward and

Iassisted in the prosecution of the work ; in which am

happy to say he is now successfully employed.

  " In the Moluccas, the Netherlands' Government have

afforded considerable countenance and assistance ; and it is

to be hoped that the subject will be taken up in the Nether
lands with the same liberality and spirit. The religion of
Christ will then not long be prevented from exercising its

improving and resuscitating influence over this long-

neglected portion of the globe.

  I" At the same time that feel myself bound to offer an
Iapology for the length of this communication, am in
Iduced to make one observation more, for which crave

your indulgence.

   " In the last Annual Report of the British and Foreign
Bible Society, notice was taken of the labours of Dr.
Morrison, and particularly of the advantage that might
arise in appointing an agent to proceed to Singapore,
and from thence to China and different parts of the East,

Iwith the view of distributing the Scriptures in China.

take this occasion to offer my entire concurrence and un
reserved testimony in support of the suggestion of Dr-

Morrison ; and to state that, situated as we are now on

360 BRITISH AND FOREIGN BIBLE SOCIETY.

the threshold of China, and surrounded by perhaps half a
million of that people, who have emigrated and settled
around us in the adjacent countries, with almost constant
intercourse, and means of communication even with the

Iheart of China itself, Loochoo, and Japan, consider this

the most favourable opportunity that could be embraced
for furthering the objects of the Society in that quarter.

I ought also to add, that Siam and Cochin China are

now, for the first time, open to our commerce ; and that,
whatever may be the result of the present contest in the
Birman country, a field seems to be opening in that

quarter, from which we shall no longer be debarred en
trance. India beyond the Ganges, or Eastern Asia, at
no former period of its history seems to have been preg

nant with greater changes than at present ; and, though

all good and great works must be the work of time, yet I

Itrust may stand excused in suggesting whether the

time has not arrived, when a knowledge of the languages
and character of the people ought to be cultivated, in

order that we may have agents prepared to act whenever
safe openings offer. Instead of one or two persons
learned in the Chinese, should we not at least have a

dozen ? Siam and Cochin China are extremely populous ;

Iand am not aware that any Protestant missionary has

ever been among them ; or that any version of the Scrip

tures in their languages has been attempted.

   " With the view of affording to the Committee every

information as to the present state of Eastern Asia, I

             ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 361

have taken the liberty to transmit herewith a memoran
dum of the Institution at Singapore ; an institution which

Iin its degree will, trust, be found essentially conducive

to the civilization and advancement of the countries by
which it is surrounded."

   Sir Stamford had not been many months in England
when he suggested a plan to Sir Humphrey Davy for the
formation of a Zoological Society, which should combine
with the pursuit of science the introduction and domes
tication of such quadrupeds, birds, and fishes, as might
be most likely to prove useful to agricultural and do
mestic purposes.

   The following letters allude to this subject.

      TO SIR R. H. INGLIS, BART.

                                                      " April 28, 1825.

" My dear Sir Robert,

" As Sir Humphrey has gone out of town, leaving

with me the list of names in support of the plan for ex

tending our zoological researches, &c., to add the names

of as many of my friends as might be desirous of promot

ing am induced to ask may have the honour of
iIt,             is

                       iIf
putting down your name.
   " Mr. Peels name at the head of the list, and those

of Lord Spencer, Lord Lansdowne, Lord Stanley, Mr.

Heber, and many others of weight follow.

" When the list  completed to hundred, which
                 is                                   I

                                                   a

362 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

conclude it will be in a day or two, it is proposed to ap

point a committee, when the objects of the society will be
more clearly defined. In the first instance, we look

mainly to the country gentlemen for support, in point of

numbers ; but the character of the institution must of

course depend on the proportion of men of science and
Isound principles which it contains.
                                      look more to the

             it,

               I

                                if

                                        it it
                                               is

                                                                                            a
scientific part of and propose,       established on

respectable footing, to transfer to   the collections in

natural history which  have brought home with me.
                          " Yours sincerely,

                                       " T. S. Raffles."

                       TO THE SAME.

                                       " Grosvenor- street, June 16, 1825.

" My dear Sir Robert,

        " have duly registered Sir Thomas Acland's
I
  I
name on the list of subscribers to the proposed society,

which am now happy to find to be honoured andis

benefited by his support.

  " A meeting proposed to be held next week, when
             is
some kind of form or constitution will be given to'I it        at
                                                            :
                 I
present      almost without a local habitation or a name.'
a

    it

         is
" In the mean time enclose you the last prospectus,

with list of the names as they stood a week ago, since

which there have been several accessions.                    have
   " The state of my health has been such, that

found impossible to call at Manchester-buildings, not
it

             LETTER TO SIR R. H. INGLIS.  363

Iwithstanding many attempts, and am now forced to fly

from town rather suddenly. We go as far as Hornsey on

Saturday, and expect early in the next month to remove

Ito High Wood, which   have purchased ; at present,

however, we have some difficulty about the period of pos

session, on account of delay in making out the title ; and,

Ias the case stands, have been obliged to say, that unless
I can remove at an early date, our agreement must fall to

the ground.            " Yours, &c.

                       " T. S. Raffles."

   To Sir Stamford the enjoyments of a country life were

peculiarly delightful, indeed almost necessary ; and when
he found himself once more at liberty to cultivate his
garden, to attend to his farm, and to interest himself in
those simple pleasures in which he had always delighted,
he hoped to regain that health and strength which alone
were wanting to his happiness. Here he could indulge
the feelings of his heart without restraint ; and it was his
intention, had not God ordained better things for him, to
have passed the greater part of his time in the happy
retirement which the spot he selected for his residence
promised to secure to him.

             TO SIR R. H. INGLIS, BART.

                       "High Wood, December 31, 1825.

" My dear Sir Robert,

I" The application     am about to make to you

I Iwill be the best proof can give that   am recover

3(54  REQUESTED TO ACT IN THE MAGISTRACY.

ing my health, and feel some confidence in my future

exertions.
    " My neighbours here have urged me strongly to act as

a magistrate, and the necessity of such an authority is
unquestionable. We are more than four miles removed
from our parish church, and the exercise of anything like

police ; and the consequences are as might be expected :

the poorer classes, left to themselves without control in

this world, and neither checked by moral nor any other

authority, are in a sad degraded and irregular state. We
are just on the borders of another county, not famous for
the moral character of its inhabitants, in the vicinity of
Barnet and Whetstone, which is a further reason for my

undertaking the office.

   " We are now concerting a plan for the erection of a
Chapel of Ease ; and the next object is an efficient magis

Itracy. For some time resisted the entreaties of my
Ifriends that should endeavour to get into the commis

sion, not feeling my health equal to the duties, and appre
hensive that, although during the longest part of my

Ipublic life, have been acting on the principle, and
Idirecting others how to execute similar offices, might

myself be deficient in the details ; but from the improve

ment in my health, and from a desire to be useful to the
extent of my ability, added to the consideration that it
may afford me the means of becoming practically ac
quainted with the real state of our society, and of much
regarding our laws and usages which it is impossible for

LETTER TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.            365

Ime to know otherwise than theoretically,  no longer

hesitate.
               ##*# *

  I" have, in a great measure, recovered my health, by

being quietly in the country, and avoiding public or large

parties, and the benefit of a pure air; but we propose

going into town in the course of a few months.
                                       " Yours, &c.

                                              " T. S. Raffles."

                             TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                               "23, Lower Grosvenor Street, March 9, 1825.

   " My dear Cousin,

       I" have been intending to write to you for the

last three weeks, and particularly in answer to your refer
ence to Sophia respecting the Singapore Institution ; but

I have been far from well, and not able to communicate
Iwith Dr. Morrison and other friends so fully as could

have wished.

  " It is now determined that he does not return to

China this season ; and he has for the present established

himself at Hackney, where he lectures twice a week, and

affords instruction in the Chinese language. His object

is to introduce the study of it into this country ; and a
plan is in progress for appointing a professor in Oxford.

  I" am decidedly of opinion, that the interests of the

Institution will be better forwarded by considering it as a
whole; it being of course optional with subscribers to

STUDY OF THE CHINESE LANGUAGE.

give their assistance either generally, or to either of the
three departments--Literary, Chinese, or Malay. Dr.

Morrison looks principally to the Chinese, but he by no

means wishes to throw the other departments into the

Ibackground ; and believe he is fully convinced that we

must uphold the literary and scientific department, as

most essential for the well-being of the whole.  **

I propose after Easter to take it up, and will then write

you more fully.

  I" It will think be advisable to move in the first in
Istance in London, where propose appointing a com

*****mittee. Dr. Morrison does not appear sanguine about

public meetings, and seems to think we can do more by

committees.
  " My health has improved, but I am still delicate and
Iunsound; so much so, that am unable to bear the

fatigue of going into the city, or attending to anything

Ilike business.  look forward with no little anxiety to

May and June, when we may hope to quit London and

ruralize.

  I" am much interested at present in estabbshing a

grand Zoological collection in the metropolis, with a

Society for the introduction of living animals, bearing the

same relation to Zoology as a science, that the Horticul

tural Society does to Botany. The prospectus is drawn

Iout, and when a few copies are printed will send some

to you. We hope to have two thousand subscribers at

THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  367

21. each ; and it is further expected we may go far beyond
the Jardin des Plantes at Paris. Sir Humphrey Davy
and myself are the projectors ; and while he looks more

*****to the practical and immediate utility to the country gen

tlemen, my attention is more directed to the scientific
department. More of this, however, hereafter.

                                              " T. S. Raffles."

                             TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                                 " Lower Orosvenor Street, May 18, 1826.

   " My dear Cousin,
         " You are kind, indeed, to be thinking of me and

I Imy prospects, at a time when fear shall have given you

too much reason for accusing me of neglect. My con

Iscience has for many a day told me that ought to have
Iwritten to you more than have done ; and the only way
Iin which have been able to satisfy it, has been by reflect

ing on your kindness and consideration to make allowance
for all my sins of omission ;--which in the way of cor

respondence have latterly accumulated most frightfully.

I feel in the light of an unfortunate debtor, with but little

prospect of ever discharging my arrears.
   " My health, thank God, is upon the whole improved ;--

Iand am happy to say both Sophia and my little one are

quite well. Necessity has compelled me to go much into

Isociety; and am almost surprised, that, at this gay
Iseason of festivity, have been able to carry on the war.

Seldom a day passes without an engagement for dinner,

368  THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

Iand for many weeks have not been able to command an
Ihour's leisure. It is true have not attended very closely

to anything, but all is so new, varied, and important in
the metropolis of this great empire, after so long an ab

*****sence in the woods and wilds of the East, that like the

Ibee, wander from flower to flower, and drink in delicious

nutriment from the numerous intellectual and moral

sources which surround me.
   " The few copies of the Zoological plan which were

Istruck off were soon dispersed ; and did not think of
Isending some to you until Ifound had not one left for

myself. Some idea has been entertained of throwing the

Iprospectus into a new form ; and at this very time am

a little at issue with Sir Humphrey Davy, as to the share

Iwhich science is to have in the project. As soon as have
Ia copy of the plan resolved upon, will send it to you ;
Iand in the mean time shall take the liberty, save permis

sion, of placing your name with the honourables who

support it.

   " Do you know of any layman who would go to Singa

pore and China as an Agent to the Bible Society ;--or

who would devote himself to the cultivation of the Chinese

language ? He would have a salary of 100Z. per annum,
Iand all expenses for travelling, &c. paid.
                                             am looking

out for such a person, at the suggestion of the Bible

Society; and considering the great opening, and the

extent of the field, surely there must be sufficient interest

         ILLNESS OF SIR STAMFORD.                    369
*****Iin the country to rouse some one into action.
                                                   think it

likely that you will see some notice on the subject in the

next monthly extracts published by the Society.

         " T. S. Raffles."

         TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                                  "Lower Grosvenor-street, May 24, 1826.

   " My dear Cousin,

        I" Thank God can return a tolerably satisfactory

answer to your kind enquiry, by saying, that though still

Irather weak and nervous, am again getting about. My

attack was sudden and unexpected, but fortunately was

Inot apoplectic as was at first feared.  was inanimate for

Iabout an hour ; but, on being bled, got better, and have

had no return.

  I" It has reminded me, however, that have been quite

long enough in London, and its dissipations and excite

ments ; and we are now making arrangements for retreat

*****ing as soon as we can. Nothing has yet been determined

respecting the property at Hendon ; but we are still in
treaty, the difference being about a thousand pounds.
  I" am afraid of writing much, as my head is not quite

what it should be.
                              " Yours most affectionately,

                                               " T. S. Raffles."

Sir Stamford alludes to an illness in the foregoing

vol. H.                                  2r

370  PROSPECTUS OF THK ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

letter ; he had been to call on his friend Mr. Murdoch ;
and after leaving his house was suddenly seized with a
fainting-fit, and brought home by a surgeon who happened
to be passing at the time. The hope that it was not an
attack of apoplexy was, alas ! fallacious ; but how often are
the warnings of God rendered of no avail by the re

luctance of man to apply them ! In this instance those

near and dear to him refused to listen, because to have
done so would have been to yield up every hope of

earthly happiness.

                             TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                                        " Lower Grosvenor-street, June 6, 1826.

   " My dear Cousin,

       I" sent you by the coach of Saturday a few of the

copies of the Prospectus of the Zoological Society. It is

a subject on which much has been said, and more might
be written ; but it has been thought best, in the present

state of the speculation, to confine the notice to a few words.

IThe names are coming in fast ; and shall be happy to

receive a list of any of your friends at Liverpool, who may
be desirous of becoming subscribers. The amount of the
sum will not ruin them, neither will they find themselves
in bad company : and no pecuniary call will be made until

the plan is advanced, and we can show them something

for their money.

   " It is proposed to have a general meeting of the sub

scribers who may be in town, in the course of the present

PROSPECTUS OF THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  371

month, in order to appoint a Committee, and proceed to

business.

   " We expect to have at least 500 members to begin with,

and that Government will provide us with ground, &c.

   I I" am happy to say that continue tolerably well ;

although the last serious attack, in reminding me of my

mortality, has thrown me back considerably both in

Istrength and spirits ; so much so, that am obliged to

forego society in a great measure, and to come to the reso
lution of quitting London almost immediately. We have

fixed on the 15th to move to Hornsey, for a week or two,

whence we shall remove to our new dwelling at High

IWood. This place have just purchased, and we are to

have possession at Midsummer. It is in the parish of

Hendon, and on the borders of Hertfordshire, but in

Middlesex, eleven miles from London, and three from

Barnet, so that we shall be at least ten miles nearer to
you than we are in London, The house is small, but

compact, and the grounds well laid out for appearance

Iand economy. The land, 112 acres, in grass; and, as
Ihave taken the growing crops, must begin hay-making

while the sun shines. There is a very good farming

establishment on a small scale; and I am now rejoiced

Ithat can offer you and Mrs. Raffles and the children

comfortable beds and accommodation whenever you can

Ipass a few weeks with us.  anticipate, with the blessing of

God, great advantage from the change of air and occupa

tion. We have now been nearly eight months in London,

                            2 b2

372 ESTABLISHES THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

*****Iand most heartily am I tired of it ; indeed, do not think

I could stand a month longer at the rate we have been

obliged to live, without quiet or retirement for a day.
   "The last attack has so shaken my confidence and

Inerves, that have hardly spirit at the present moment

*****to enter upon public life; and prudence dictates the

I Inecessity of my keeping as quiet as can, until com

pletely re-establish my health. A few months in the

country, and on the farm, may set me up again.
" Sophia unites in kindest love to Mrs. Raffles and

yourself,

           " And I remain,

                   " Yours, most affectionately,
                                        " T. S. Raffles.

  I I" am not sure that mentioned in my former letter

that my attention was directed to High Wood, in the first
instance, by our respected friend, Mr. Wilberforce, who

has purchased the estate adjoining, so that we are to be
next door neighbours, and to divide the hill between us.

  I" am happy to say that his health is improving. --Do

you not almost envy us such a neighbour ?"

  It will be seen from the notices in this and some of the

preceding letters, that Sir Stamford had at this time the
gratification of carrying into execution in London his

LETTER TO DR. RAFFLES.                 373

favourite plan of an establishment similar to the Jardin
des Plantes at Paris. His own taste led him, as he has

stated himself, to consider the" scientific department as the
one of the greatest interest and advantage to his country.

   The Zoological Society now possesses that portion of
the collections which he made during his last government,
and sent home previously to his return from Sumatra.

                     TO THE REV. DR. RAFFLES.

                       " High Wood, Middlesex, June \5th, 1826.

" My dear Cousin,

    I" have just received your welcome letter of the

12th, and should send this immediate acknowledgment to

ILiverpool, if it did not appear that should best insure

its delivery, and meet your arrangements, by forwarding

it to Highbury Place.
   " We are here, thank God, once more out of the tram

mels and disorders of a London life. We came down last

week, and are looking forward to the hope of remaining

some time. We have nearly dismantled the house in

IGrosvenor-street, so that fear you would find but poor

accommodations there : here we cannot have you too

much with us ; and from the nature of the house you can

best judge the accommodation we can afford.

   "We have the same dread of the measles that you

appear to have. Neither of the children have had them ;

and, as they have had a sad bout, and are only just reco

Ivering from the hooping-cough, which  caught from

them, we cannot be too particular.

374 LETTER TO UK. RAFFLES.

  I" As to my engagements for the next three weeks,

know but of one or two likely to interfere with any

arrangement which we can make for being together, as

much as possible, while you are in the vicinity of

London.
   " We are daily waiting a summons from Lady Harcourt

to go to St. Leonard's, where we have promised to take

the children for a week. We are also under the necessity
of going into Essex after the Midsummer holidays, to
put Charles to school, and spend a few days with Mr.
Sotheby, the poet, and our friend Mr. Hamilton : with

these exceptions the coast is clear.

   " You do not say the time that Mrs. Raffles proposes

Ibeing in town : but hope you will arrange for her coming

to us when she does arrive : and that, at all events, we

may be able to make a comfortable family circle, pre

vious to your trip to Hamburgh.

   " Let me have a line from you when you reach High

bury, should you not stop by the way at Barnet, and first

Ilook in upon us.  generally go into town once a week,

and we must lose no time in meeting.

  I I" have had a great deal to annoy me since saw you
last ; but it is a worldly affair, and I trust will not mate

rially affect our happiness.
   " Sophia is quite well, and desires her kindest love.
                                      " Yours affectionately,

                                              " T. S. Raffles."

DIFFICULTIES OF SIR STAMFORD'S PUBLIC LIFE. 375

" We suffer a little from the heat ; but, as we hope to

Imake our hay in the course of next week,  don't com

Iplain ; High Wood is now in its best dress, and will,

am sure, please you.

   " My neighbour, Mr. Wilberforce, takes possession to

morrow, and will previously spend the day with us."

   This is the last letter from which the Editor can pre

sent any extract, and her duty now approaches to its

close.

   Through the whole course of the narrative it will have
been obvious, that from the first period of public action,
preceding and during the expedition to Java, Sir Stam
ford's course of duty forced him to act on his own re
sponsibility; that, in very few instances, were his supe
riors pleased to view in the same light the interests of
the charge entrusted to his management; that in the
absence of instructions solicited, and of replies to his fre .
 quent references, he was impelled onwards by the course
 of events ; that in the administration of the Government
 of that Island, and in his subsequent Government of
 Bencoolen, and the important establishment of Singa
pore, unfortunately, when his superiors did interfere, it
 was in general only to raise objections, and to suggest a
 different course of measures, when, by their own delays,
 the time was past in which their views could have been
 adopted. This may be supposed to have arisen more
 from their ignorance of the subjects on which they

376 DIFFICULTIES OF SIR STAMFORD S PUBLIC LIFE.

 thought it necessary to decide, than from any intention
of being unjust or harsh towards the individual whose
merits and services many of them, no doubt, justly appre
ciated. Among the Directors of the East India Com
pany, Sir Stamford had the happiness to possess the

friendship of Sir Hugh Inglis, Mr. Grant, Mr. Edmond-
stone, Mr. Money, and Mr. Edward Parry, to every one
of whom individually, he would have referred with the

greatest confidence for an opinion on any and every point
of his public life.

    The second period of his services in the East, his go
vernment in Sumatra, placed him in a predicament equally
trying ; every act which tended to benefit his country
generally, and to promote the interests of the people more
immediately subject to his authority, interfered in the
same degree with the principles of monopoly on which
the East India Company have founded their policy.

   It was the opinion of Sir Stamford, that during the

infancy of our intercourse with India, the union of mer
chant and legislator might exist without injury to the
general interests of the country ; but that it was a short
sighted policy which induced the reluctance to share with
competitors those benefits formerly enjoyed by the Com
pany alone ; and that, as it is impossible for the Company
to compete with the private trader, it would be for their
honour and advantage to withdraw from this field. By
being known as Legislators and Governors only, by en
couraging general trade, and removing all obstacles to

DECISION OF THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.  377

general intercourse, they would in reality increase their
revenue, and secure the support of the public.

    Sir Stamford, as a servant of the Company, was bound
indeed to promote their peculiar and corporate interests,
but he looked beyond the mere question of the profits of
a retail trade; and he felt that no Government could
prosper unless it went hand in hand with the improve
ment of the people. That the Company have not reaped
the results of his labours cannot be imputed to him.

   It remains only to state the judgment of his superiors

upon his general measures. On the 12th of April, 1826,
the Court of Directors gave their opinion of the services
of Sir Stamford under the three heads of Java, Sumatra,
and Singapore.

   Of Java --the Court admit, that the success of the ex
pedition to Java was promoted by the plans and informa
tion of Sir Stamford Raffles.

   That the representation of Sir Stamford Raffles as to
the financial embarrassment of Java on the outset of his

government is correct.
   That those financial difficulties were enhanced by the

inevitable hostilities* with Palembang and Djojocarta.
   That of the measures introduced by Sir Stamford

Raffles for the removal of the financial embarrassments ;
viz. the sale of lands, withdrawal of Dutch paper cur
rency, and a new system of land revenue :--

              * Measures approved by the Bengal Government.

378  DECISION OF THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.

   The sale of lands * is considered to have been a ques
tionable proceeding.

   The entire series of measures for the reform of the

currency are conceded to have been well adapted to their

object.

   With regard to the system of revenue introduced by
him, the Court state that they would have been inclined
to augur favourably of the success of his measures, and
consider it highly probable that the colony would have

soon been brought at least to liquidate its own expenses
by the lenient and equitable administration of Sir Stam
ford Raffles' system.

   The regulations for reform in the judicial department
and police, the "Court consider entitled, both in their prin
ciples and in their details, to a considerable degree of

praise.
   On the measures respecting Borneo, Banca, and Japan,

the Court remark that, under a permanent tenure of
Java, and a different system of policy, the measures in
question (promoting intercourse and enlarging the British
power) would have been valuable service.

   Sumatra. --The measures of internal reform introduced
by Sir Stamford Raffles are generally approved.

   In his political measures he incurred the strong dis
approbation of the Court ; but the motives by which he

   * Pronounced by the Governor-General to have been an able
expedient in amoment of great emergency.

DECISION OF THE COURT OF DIRECTORS.  379

was actuated were unquestionably those of zealous solici
tude for the British interests in the Eastern Seas, and
form a part of a series of measures which have terminated
in the establishment of Singapore.

  Singapore.-- It is allowed that Sir Stamford Raffles

developed the exclusive views of the Dutch, and the
measures ultimately carried into effect are to be attri
buted to his instrumentality ; and to him the country is
chiefly indebted for the advantages which the settlement
of Singapore has secured to it. The Court consider this
to be a very strong point in Sir Stamford Raffles' favour,
and are willing to give him to the full extent the benefit
of their testimony respecting it.

   His administration of Singapore has been approved by

the Bengal Government.
   The Court's opinion with regard to the general services

of Sir Stamford Raffles is summed up in the following
terms :--

   " The Government of Sir Stamford Raffles appears

with sufficient evidence to have conciliated the good feel
ings of, at least, the great majority of the European and
Native population ; his exertions for the interests of lite
rature and science are highly honourable to him, and
have been attended with distinguished success ; and al
though his precipitate and unauthorised emancipation of
the Company's slaves, and his formation of a settlement
at Pulo Nias, chiefly with a view to the suppression of a
slave-traffic, are justly censured by the Court, his motives

380  DEATH OF SIR STAMFORD.

in those proceedings, and his unwearied zeal for the abo
lition of slavery, ought not to be passed over without an
expression of approbation."

   It is unnecessary for the Editor to comment on these

opinions.

   The period of two years which Sir Stamford had now
spent in England had rapidly passed away ; for who takes

note of the days of happiness ? It was his often-expressed

hope that he had experienced sufficient trial to purify his
soul ; and it is humbly trusted that the many and heavy
afflictions with which he was visited, were sanctified by
the grace of God, and were made instrumental, through
faith in a Saviour, to prepare him for the world where
sorrow and sighing are no more.

    " The few letters which have been introduced in the

last pages, are sufficient to prove that the death-blow had

been struck --the silver chord was broken at the wheel.
His sense of enjoyment, indeed, was as keen as ever, his

spirit as gay, his heart as warm, his imagination still
brighter, though his hopes in this world were less. He
was contented with the happiness of the present moment,
and only prayed for its continuance. That his prayer was

not granted is his everlasting gain. Yet even here, and

after so many trials and privations, he enjoyed no common
pleasures; the delight of being united to friends from
 whom he had been so long separated; the charms of
 society ; the interests of literature and science ; the

                               DEATH OF SIR STAMFORD.

general improvement of man ; and, above all, the nearer
charities of domestic life, all combined to engage and
occupy his mind. His heart was full of enjoyment ; and
in the retirement for which he had so long sighed, and
surrounded by all the ties which it had pleased God to

spare to him, he indulged his happy spirit. In the midst

of all these best of worldly treasures, in the bosom of his
family, that spirit which had won its way through a
greatly-chequered course, was suddenly summoned to the
throne of God, on the day previous to the completion of
his forty-fifth year, the 5th of July, 1826.

   " Watch, therefore ; for ye know not what hour your
Lord doth come."

I
 1

 i

APPENDIX.

A DISCOURSE

DELIVERED AT A MEETING OF THE SOCIETY OF ARTS AND
       SCIENCES, IN BATAVIA, ON THE TWENTY-FOURTH
          DAY OF APRIL, 1813, BEING THE ANNIVERSARY
                                  OF THE INSTITUTION,

 By the Hon. Thomas Stamford Raffles, President.

   " Gentlemen,

       " Although I have naturally withheld my signature

from the address to Lord Minto, which now lies on the

table, in consequence of the very pointed manner in which

the framer of that address has noticed the protection and

Iencouragement which have personally aiforded to the
ISociety, shall have much pleasure in forwarding and
                                I
                                       I

                                                             it,
in personally, soliciting his Lordship to take the Society

under his immediate patronage.  am satisfied that he

will entertain a due sense of the consideration which you

have shown to his exalted talents, and flatter myself

that we may confidently count on his promoting the views

and objects of the Institution to the utmost extent.
   " Elected as your President, by the unanimous voice of

the Society, and earnestly solicited by the most conspicu

ous of your Members to accept that station, have not felt
                                T

384  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS.

myself competent to decline so marked a distinction ;

I Ibut must assure you that feel very sensibly my entire

inability to execute its important duties, either with benefit
to you or credit to myself. Far more preferable would
it have been to me had this honourable post devolved
upon one of your more competent members, and that
you had permitted me to have mixed with you as one of

your ordinary, though not least zealous associates.

   " On the present occasion, however, assembled as we
are, in commemoration of the anniversary of the Institu
tion of the Batavian Society, with such fair prospects before
us of promoting the original design of its establishment,

Iunder the anticipated protection of so illustrious a Patron,
  cannot refrain from taking a general though imperfect
review, of the progress of the Society, from its first insti
tution, nor from indulging in the contemplation of the
lights, which the future exertions of its active and zealous
members may throw on man and nature in these remote

regions.

  " In common with other human institutions, the Batavian

Society has been subject to many changes and vicissi

tudes ; but it is to the calamitous effects of a war which

has desolated the finest countries in Europe, and which
extended its baneful influence to this distant Isle, that we

are principally to attribute its decline. Cut off from all
communication with the mother-country, and distracted

by internal jealousies and disputes, science drooped, and
this Society, which at one time maintained so distinguished
a character, almost ceased to be known.

  I"The Batavian Society has, believe, the honour of

being the first institution of a literary nature established
by Europeans in the East. Previous to its establishment,
Mr. Radermacher, a gentleman of distinguished talents,
and a zealous promoter of the Christian religion, and of

         TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.      385

science, with a few friends at Batavia, conceived the idea

of assembling together a number of persons of considera
tion and ability, with the view of encouraging the arts and
sciences in this capital and the other Indian establish
ments then dependent on Holland. They considered
that in India, as in Europe, where for two centuries the

reformation in letters preceded that in religion, a taste for

the arts and sciences must be introduced previously to the

general adoption of the Christian religion in the East ;
but they were aware of the difficulties to be encountered,
under the circumstances in which the colonies of Holland

were then placed, and a considerable period elapsed before

the design was carried into effect.

   " At length, in the year 1777, when Mr. Radermacher

and his father-in-law, the Governor-General De Klerk,

were newly elected directors of the Society of Haerlem, a
programma appeared, which contained the plan of extend
ing the branches of that Society to the Indies. The
distance and extent of the Dutch colonial possessions in
the East did not, however, admit of this plan being realized,
but the idea being thus brought forward to public notice,

a separate Society was, by the unremitting perseverance

of Mr. Radermacher, who may be called the founder of the
Institution, established at Batavia.

   " On the 24th of April. 1778, this Society was duly
established, under the authority of government, and after

the example of Haerlem, took for its motto, The Public
Utility. On its first organization the Society consisted

of 192 members, the Governor-General being Chief
Director, and the members of the High Regency Directors.
The ordinary members were elected from among the
most distinguished inhabitants of Batavia, and the pos
sessions of the Company ; and it was enacted, that as

many as were present should annually hold a general

vol. h.                            2c

386 MR. baffles' address

assembly, in order to judge and decide upon the answers
received to the different questions proposed, to propose

new questions, and to make general regulations. In ad

dition to this general direction, a committee was nomi
nated, consisting of eight members, with a president and
secretary, who were charged with the daily occurrences,
and with authority to decide upon and carry into effect
whatever might not admit of delay, reporting their pro

 ceedings at the ensuing general assembly.

    " The Society selected as objects of research and inquiry

whatever could be useful to agriculture, commerce, and
the welfare of the colony ; it encouraged every question
relating to natural history, antiquities, and the manners
and usages of the native inhabitants, but expressly avoided
entering upon any subject which might relate to the East
 India Company ; and in order the better to define the
 objects and contribute to their accomplishment, a pro-
 gramma was from time to time printed and circulated

 abroad.

    " These programmas contain many important questions,

 as well general as particular, relating to agriculture, com
 merce, the means of removing the insalubrity of Batavia,
 the diseases of the climate generally, and other points
 which clearly mark the objects of the Society. Among

 these, the following question may deserve notice :--
    " ' By what means of finesse do the Preachers and Mis

 sionaries of the Moslem faith succeed, even at the present
 day, in converting Pagans to the faith of the Koran, and in

 establishing them in this faith T

     "Although it might seem that this question might either
 have been answered generally by stating 'that the Maho-
 medans at the present day owe their success principally to
 their more intimate assimilation with those to be converted ;
 or, perhaps, eventually by ' a philosophical and political

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.                       387

view of the first establishment of the Mahomedan Religion
on the islands and coasts of the seas lying east of the Straits
of Malacca and Sunda ;' it does not appear to have been

Ireplied to in any of the subsequent volumes.
   " The view which have just mentioned seems to fall

particularly within the province of the Society, and to be
highly deserving its attention; it is a part of history

which seems hitherto to have been too little investigated,

and a tract on the subject, while it discussed the question

alluded to, would naturally introduce other important

subjects.

   " The Society was no sooner fully established, and its

proceedings generally known, than it received from all

quarters various acquisitions to its cabinet and library.

Mr. Radermacher himself presented the Society with a

convenient house, and with eight cases of valuable books,

a collection of animals, fossils, minerals, musical instru

ments of the Javanese, and of the different coins current

in the East ; and in the same year, by the liberality of

Mr. Bartto, the Society was enabled to form a Botanical

Establishment in a garden presented by that gentleman.

  "In 1779 the Society undertook to print the first

volume of its Transactions ; the second appeared in 1780,

and the third in 1781, but from the want of types and

other unfortunate circumstances, a programma only ap

peared in 1782. In 1786 the fourth volume was, however,

given to the public, but printed in Holland, by the com

missaries of the Society, under the special privilege of

the States General.

   " After this period the Society observing that the ques

tions proposed remained unanswered, set to work them

selves, and published the fifth volume in 1790. In this

and the sixth volume, which appeared in 1792, the essays

are written exclusively by the members.  2 c2

388 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

   " In 1794 the first two essays, intended for the seventh
volume, were printed ; but no subsequent publication of
the Transactions of the Society appears to have taken

place.

   " Subsequent to this period, when the revolutions in
Europe, the war and other circumstances of the times,

continued to interfere with the prosperity of the Society,
it was suggested by some of the members, that by adopt

ing a more limited plan for its proceedings, the objects
which the Society had in view might still be obtained;

and accordingly a resolution appears to have been taken

to this effect, to which the approval of the High Regency

was   obtained, in  May,  1800.         of the  Society,  the
      Under this     new  organization
   "

' Public Utility' was still the declared object of the Insti

tution ; but the publication of questions, except at the

particular suggestion of any member, was discontinued.

The Society still continued to consist of men of ability

and talent. The direction of the Society was placed in

the hands of a Directory of nine persons, including the

secretary, who were chosen from among the members,
each taking precedence in his turn for one month. Cor

responding members were elected at the principal settle

ments and out-stations, and the general annual assem

blies were abolished. In the hands of this Directory the

Society appears to have deposited everything; and con
sidering the distracted state of the country, such a

conduct may perhaps have been essential for maintaining

its existence during the convulsed period which ensued.

   " Notwithstanding the exertions of the Directory to

complete the seventh volume, it was found impracticable ;
and the only acquisitions which it appears to have ob
tained during the period in which the affairs of the Society
were exclusively under its management, are the communi

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  389

cations of Dr. Thomas Horsfield. This gentleman was
proposed to the High Regency, and authorised to prose
cute his botanical researches under the sanction of govern
ment. After several excursions in different parts of the
island, he established himself at Souracarta, with the view

of forming a Flora Javana, forwarding to the Society from
time to time reports of his progress, dried plants, and
useful descriptions and accounts of discoveries made by
him in natural history.

   " Such was the state of the Society at the change of

government, in 1811, when the dark perspective was
illumined, and the talents and ambition of the Society

again shone forth from the obscurity in which political

circumstances had involved it.
    " Without noticing particularly the various essays which

Iadorn the pages of the six volumes of the Transactions

already published, shall briefly observe, that as far as
my limited knowledge of the language enables me to

judge, they contain much useful and interesting informa
tion, particularly on economical subjects materially con
nected with the interests of science and literature.

   " In the first volume will be found an interesting de

scription of the Dutch possessions in the East Indies, and

the Transactions are replete with various valuable tracts

on agriculture, commerce, political economy, and natu
ral history, by Messrs. Radermacher, Van Hogendorp,
Hooyman, Van Iperen, Baron Van Wurmb, Couperus,
Van der Steege, Titsing, Tessiere, Van Boeckholtz, and

others.

   " Having thus taken a retrospective view of the Society,
from its first institution until the period when it was new-

Imodelled under the regulations of last year, shall pro

ceed briefly to notice the contents of the volume, which is

now sent to the press, and to communicate such sug

390 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

gestions as occur to me with regard to our future pro

ceedings.

   " In various branches of natural history, Doctor Hors-

field is eminently conspicuous, and the papers which will
now come before the public from his pen, are highly in
teresting to science. On the antiquities and native his
tory of the island, some light is thrown by Lieutenant-
Colonel Mackenzie, Surveyor- General on the Madras
Establishment, in his interesting tract on the Ruins of
Prambana, forming the capital of one of the early dynas
ties of this island; and on the Island of Borneo some

interesting data are furnished, on which to found our
further inquiries in that immense island, from the pen of
the late Dr. Leyden. The circumstances under which
this paper was written are stated in a note annexed to the

paper itself.

   " Had our late valuable secretary, Dr. Hunter, been
spared but a few months, the present volume would not
have made its appearance without containing some highly
interesting essay from him. His death is deeply deplored

by us all, as must for ever be the unexpected and un
timely fate of my departed friend Dr. Leyden, who,
although not actually initiated as a member of this So
ciety, came from the other India panting after knowledge,

and busy in the pursuit of science. Had Providence

ordained that he should have remained a few months on
this island in the exercise of the wonderful powers of his

Iever active mind, am convinced, that from his extra

ordinary acquirements in all the languages of the East,
his deep erudition, and his zeal in the cause, he would
have found it no difficult task to have traced the con
nection which formerly subsisted between the Eastern
Islands and Western India, from a comparison of their
languages and dialects only. His views were the most

           TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  391

extended and comprehensive that a philosophic mind can
conceive. Ardent in the pursuit of knowledge in every
direction, and rising with difficulties, his uncommon mind

and rare talents must naturally have overcome every

obstacle.

  " A more convincing proof cannot perhaps be offered

of the views which he contemplated in setting his foot in
this capital of the Eastern Islands, than in the sketch of

IBorneo, which have just noticed. This was prepared

by him on his passage from Malacca to Batavia during

the progress of the expedition. It stands uncorrected by

Ihis masterly hand, but even in its present state will,

have no doubt, be found to merit a place in your publi

cations.

   " Irreparable as the loss of these inestimable promoters
of our design and ornaments of our age must be, and
deep as our regret may be felt, we are not to despair of
what may hereafter be done ; but rather, from the loss we

have sustained, put our shoulders more firmly to the
wheel and exert ourselves more than under other more

fortunate  circumstances would   have been necessary.     to
           first point which it  appears to me essential
   " The

notice with regard to our future proceedings, is the neces
sity of encouraging and attaining a more general know
ledge of the Javanese language. Hitherto the commu
nication with the inhabitants of the country has been

chiefly through illiterate interpreters, or when direct,
through the medium of a barbarous dialect of Malays,

confounded and confused by the introduction of Portu

guese and Dutch. Without a thorough knowledge of
this language, it is impossible to form any accurate idea
of the modes of thinking or acting among the people of

this country. Much valuable information may be ex
pected to be found in their books, and when they are

   392 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

   more generally known, an attempt may be made to
   develop the early history of the island, which, with the
   exception of some leading facts, remains, anterior to the
   introduction of Mahomedanism, involved in obscurity and
   fable.

    I" have already in my possession three detailed his

   tories of the island, stated to be taken from their own
   written accounts ; but as they have passed through one,
   and in some cases two, intermediate languages, and the
   persons intrusted with the first translation not perhaps

  Iunderstanding the subject, cannot depend upon them.

      " Vocabularies have already been collected of the dif
   ferent dialects of the Javanese, and also of the principal
   languages of the Eastern Seas; and from the unremit
   ting and indefatigable exertions of Colonel Mackenzie,
   whose researches into the history and antiquities of
   Western India so eminently qualify him for similar pur

   suits in this quarter, we are justified in the expectation
   that many of the doubtful points regarding the early
   connection of Java and the Eastern Islands with the con
   tinent of India will be cleared up.

      " The collections of Colonel Mackenzie, who has per
   sonally visited almost every part of the island, prove the
   zeal with which he has taken up the subject ; and on his
   return to India, where an opportunity may be afforded of
   decyphering several inscriptions found in different parts
   of Java, of which he has taken fac similes, we are pro
   mised that his exertions will not be relaxed in endeavour
   ing to illustrate whatever may be important.

      " The opportunity afforded of increasing our stock of

  Javanese Manuscripts has not been lost ; and if the Go

   vernment should be enabled to prosecute a plan, which is
   in contemplation, for forming an establishment for the
  acquisition of the language, we may hope that transla-

s

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  393

tions of the most important will soon find a place on the
shelves of our library.

   " Dr. Horsfield still continues his pursuits in natural

history, with unabated zeal; and although he has been
for a time removed from the immediate field of Java, he

is prosecuting, in a neighbouring island, pursuits of a
similar nature. The Island of Banca, which has lately
fallen into the possession of our Government, had never
been explored by Europeans. Dr. Horsfield has under
taken the task, and, from his talents, ability, and industry,

the most sanguine expectations may be realized.

   " Mr. Muntinghe also, whose enlarged views and extra

ordinary endowments so peculiarly qualify him to direct
you in the paths of science and literature, will not be
wanting in contributing his share to the general purposes

of the Society. He has already collected many highly
interesting tracts on the Native Laws and Institutions, as

they are traced to have existed antecedent to the intro
duction of the Mahomedan faith ; and when his informa

tion is more mature, and his collections more complete,
we are justified in the expectation, that he will devote to
the Society some portion of that extensive stock of lite
 rary acquirement and sound judgment for which he stands

 so eminently conspicuous.

    " To the learned Professor Ross, the Society is already

highly indebted ; and while we cannot but consider our
 thanks as peculiarly due to this gentleman for his exer

Itions in preserving the existence of the Society during a

 period of peculiar delicacy and difficulty, am satisfied
 that we may look to him and the other Dutch members
 for the most essential aid in future. To particularize
 many of these members would perhaps be invidious to the

Iwhole, but if may be allowed to introduce the names of

 Engelhard, Couperus, and Van Naersen, and to calculate

394 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

Ion the advantages which must be derived from the inves

tigations and communications of these gentlemen, am
sure there are few among us who will not readily admit
their claim to pre-eminence and distinction.

   " Without entering on the various subjects which offer
themselves for inquiry on Java, and which, not to intrude
on your time at present, may be more advantageously in

Itroduced in a list of desiderata, shall confine myself to

a few observations on the present state of the countries
in its vicinity which seem most to demand attention.

   " The members of the Society must have been forcibly
struck with the rapid progress made by the Asiatic So
ciety in Calcutta ; an institution of recent date, compared

with that established at Batavia ; and however much the
decline of the latter may be attributed to the political cir

Icumstances already stated, am inclined to think, that its

decay may in some degree have been accelerated by the

nature of its constitution. A very essential change has

lately been effected, and the regulations of the Batavian
Society have been new modelled, nearly on the same prin

ciple as those of the Asiatic Society in Bengal. Al

though, therefore, we may not at the present moment
boast of so many eminent literary characters as are to be
found among the members of that Society, it is but fair to
flatter ourselves with the expectation, that under the for
tunate change of circumstances which has taken place,
with regard to this island, and the new organization of the

Society, our exertions may tend considerably to a better
knowledge of this part of the world, and the general
advancement of literature and science.

   " The objects of the Asiatic Society in Calcutta are so
fully explained in the discourses of Sir William Jones,
that it is unnecessary to enter into any explanation of
them here. The researches of that Society are not

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  395

confined immediately to Western India; they extend
throughout the whole regions of Asia. The whole circle
of the sciences, and the wide field of Asia, are alike open
to your observation, but it occurs to me, that the interests
and object of the Institution will be more advantageously

promoted by its exertions being directed to what falls

more immediately within your reach.

   " It is to what has been emphatically termed the

I" Further East" that would direct your more imme
Idiate attention ; and here, if am not mistaken, an ample

field is afforded. The history of Sumatra, by Mr. Mars-
den, has thrown so clear a light on the country and

Icharacter of the inhabitants, that have but to refer you

to that valuable work for all that is yet known respecting
that interesting Island. Much, however, still remains to
be done, even in this quarter, and our recent connection
with Palembang, and the Southern Provinces of the
Island, promises to afford every facility to our inquiries.
Of Banca, we shall no doubt possess the most accurate
and interesting information, on the return of Dr. Hors-
field, and as our recent establishment in that quarter
forms a new centre, from which our inquiries may diverge,
the various countries in its vicinity will no doubt be early

 explored.

    " Of the chain of Islands lying East of Java, and with

Iit denominated generally the Sunda Islands, shall only

 notice particularly that of Bali. This Island lies so close
to Java that it is surprising so little is known of it. All
 accounts agree, that vestiges of the Hindu or B'hudist
 religion, perhaps of both, are still to be found. Some
 accounts go so far as to state, that in the interior of the

 country, the inhabitants are divided into four tribes,
 termed Bramana, Sudra, Wazier, and Sutra; and it is

 certain, that on the final establishment of the Mahomedan

396 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

religion in Java, the Hindus or B'hudists, who remained
Iunconverted, took refuge in that Island.
                                           will not ven

ture further on this unknown ground, feeling satified that
another year will not be allowed to pass by without

personal observation on the spot by some inquisitive

inquirer.
   " We have hitherto only adverted to the countries lying

in the more immediate vicinity of Java, but in extending

the prospect, and directing our views eastward to the

other islands of the Archipelago, our attention is forcibly

attracted by the great Island of Borneo, hitherto a blank

on the chart of the world. From the best information we

have yet been able to obtain of this immense Island,

greater in extent than any civilized nation of Europe, and

abundantly rich in the most valuable natural productions,

it would appear that the whole country was, at no very

remote period, divided under the three empires of Borneo,
Sucadana, and Banjer Masin, of which the reigning

princes of the two latter trace their descent from Mah'ja*

palut in Java.
   " Borneo or B'rni, now termed by us Borneo Proper,

having been the first port visited by Europeans, may
have given rise to the name of Borneo being erroneously
applied to the whole Island, which by the native inhabit
ants, and universally by the Eastern States, is termed

Pulu K'lemantan. Its princes deduce their origin from

the Sultans of Johore, but such is the wretched state to

which their country has fallen, that they possess little

more than nominal authority, except on the immediate

spot of their residence.                    in latter
   " Sucadana, though the most conspicuous

times, is now reduced to little more than a name. To

the rise of Sambas, Pontiana, and other petty states on

its numerous rivers, originating in grants and usurpations

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  397

of various portions of the empire, the destruction of the
seat of government by the Dutch, and the general imbe
cility and want of enterprise on the part of the reigning

princes, may be attributed the state into which the pre

sent possessor of the title has latterly fallen. He resides

entirely at Matan, an inconsiderable place far up an ad
jacent river. This prince still possesses the large diamond
which has been for eight generations in his family, but
retains little other valuable appendage or consideration
to support either his rank or authority.

   " Banjer Masin, although not much indebted to the
interference of the Dutch in promoting its internal im
provement, still owes much of its remaining respectability
as a State, to the protection afforded by the presence of
the European authority. Deprived, however, latterly of
that support, convulsed by the consequences of the
measures which closed the period of Dutch influence, and
exposed to the inroads of piratical enterprise, it was
rapidly falling into decay, and in a short period its princes
would perhaps have had little more to boast than those of
Sucadana, had not the fostering care of the European

power been again extended by the encouragement given
to the wishes and expectations of the reigning prince,

whose conduct affords, amongst many others, a convinc

ing proof how much the interests, welfare, and even ex
istence of the native states depend on the ability and
character of the reigning prince*.

   " A more intimate acquaintance with Banjer Masin

than with the other parts of the Island enables us to

speak more decidedly with regard to the progress of

   * The Factory of Banjer Masin was withdrawn, and the connexion

abandoned by the Dutch, early in 1809, the Sultan purchasing, for
the sum of 50,000 rix dollars, the forts and buildings, on his being
declared independent

                                MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

civilization in the interior of the country, and the general
state of the Southern Provinces. Something has already

been written on the northern part, and the settlements

formerly maintained by the English have thrown some
light on the character of the country and habits of the
population in that quarter; the interference which has
been found requisite, for the immediate suppression of
piracy in the states formerly appertaining to Sucadana,
will also afford the means by which much interesting in
formation will be obtained from thence.

   " Banjer Masin, in common with Java, still retains
some vestiges of Hindu antiquity, and among others it

may not be uninteresting to notice the circumstance of
the Sultan being in possession of a golden tortoise with
several rings, on which are engraved the figures of Ish-
wara and other Hindu deities, and impressions of the

cow and elephant*.

   * The manner in which the golden tortoise was discovered is thus
related : --" In the reign of the former Sultan, a native of Banjer
Masin, when at sea in company with a Kling, or native of the coast of
Coromandel, ascertained from conversation that the latter, who was a
Hindu, had a secret object in proceeding to Banger Masin, and at
length discovered that object to be the recovery of property belonging
to his ancestors, which appeared to lie buried in the earth at a place
called Mirampiau. Stimulated by the expectation of gain, he dis
suaded the Hindu from immediately prosecuting his object, and bent
his own course directly to the spot, where, after digging to a consi
derable depth, he discovered several compartments inclosed by walls,
in one of which he found the tortoise, with a pot of gold-dust on the
back." Intelligence being immediately carried to the Sultan, his
further researches were prevented, in consequence of the spot being
seized as a droit of royalty ; after which no further investigation ap
pears to have taken place. The cow is said to be never seen among
the emblems of Hindu or Vedantic Mythology; but the Ox fre
quently. The elephant is introduced merely as an ornament, except
when repeated in certain stories with other figures of the drama.
The elephant exhibited on the seal-ring may have some allusion to
the Calinga or Telinga state, the chief of which was denominated the

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.                                        399

   " Of the population of the Island, all that we are yet

justified in saying is, that the Moslems appear to have

established themselves in authority over the aborigines,
who are generally termed Orang Dayak, in those parts of

the country adjacent to settlements which they have
formed on the banks of the many rivers with which the
Island is watered. These extend some distance inland,

but the Mahomedan influence has not spread far into the
interior. Indeed, the mass of the population, which may
have submitted to the Moslem Chiefs, still remains un

converted to the Mahomedan faith, and in the interior
their habits are so barbarous as to prevent all intercourse,

even with the Mahomedans most in their vicinity. Those
subjected to the Mahomedans appear to be mostly tract
able and of mild disposition, but so wretchedly sunk in
barbarous stupidity as to submit to every indignity with
out resistance, while those who still retain their inde

pendence, and who are to be considered as the bulk of the

original population, form innumerable ferocious tribes,

constantly at variance with each other, and individually
rejecting internal government and control.

   " It may be a question whether the present state of

society, among the unsubdued inhabitants, is to be attri
buted to any marked distinction between them and those
who have submitted to the Mahomedan rule, or whether
the barbarity, which now disgraces human nature, may
not be traced in a great measure to the conduct observed
to those who have submitted to a foreign influence. Be

Gaja Putty, or Lord of Elephants. In like manner as the Chief or
King of the Carnatic was denominated Nara Patty, or Lord of Men,

but the seal of Carnatic was a wild-hog. Pillars and remains of
buildings, evidently traces of a more enlightened population at a

remote period, have     been noticed a considerable way up     the river ;
but until that part of  the country is visited by Europeans,  it would be

premature to offer any observation on their origin and design.

 400 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

 this as it may, it is a lamentable fact not to be disputed,
 that at the present day, almost within sight of Java, the
 sacrifice of human beings at ceremonies and festivals is so
 common, that enterprises are undertaken divested of every
 other object but the attainment of human beings for such

 occasions.

    " Where such practices are prevalent, it is not to be ex

 pected that a country can boast extensive population;
 indeed, under such circumstances, it may rather be matter

of surprise that Borneo should be so populous as it is.
 Happily there is no state of human nature so debased as

 not to afford a field for improvement, and although the
horrid custom alluded to would seem to check any san-
 giune hope of a rapid change being effected, there are
 some traits to be found, even in these savages, which

 afford an opening for intercourse and consequent im
provement. They are not without industry, and when
met by candour and kind treatment, are rather disposed
than otherwise to a trading intercourse. From mild and
judicious management much may be expected.

   " From what has been said of the present state of
Borneo, it follows, that we are not to calculate on any im
mediate addition to our stock of useful arts ; but as every
untrodden path affords some new incitement to the inqui

sitive mind, we may look for much in the various branches

of natural history ;--to the philosophic mind a wide and

interesting field is opened, and while we contemplate, in a
political point of view, the advantages which must result
from bringing forth, and directing in a proper course, the
latent energies and resources of so large a portion of the
habitable globe, it must be a pleasing reflection to the
philanthropist, that so many of our fellow-creatures are
thus gradually retrieved from ignorance, barbarism, and

self-destruction .

         TO THE BATAV1AN SOCIETY.                    401

   " Proceeding east, our progress is arrested by the Ce

lebes, an island as remarkable for its peculiar shape, as for

the martial and commercial enterprise of a great portion
of its inhabitants. Of this island, however, we yet know
but little that is to be depended upon, except of the south

west limb, and the immediate neighbourhood of the north

east point.
   " Among the records of the Dutch government a very

interesting map of the south-western limb has been found ;

and from the minuteness and ability with which it appears
to be executed, it promises to throw much light on the
general nature of the country ; and will, at all events,

facilitate a more accurate survey whenever circumstances

may admit of such an undertaking.
   " The most prominent nations in this part of Celebes are

the Bugis and Macasar or Mengasar, but hitherto we have

only discovered one written character, distinct from every

other in the Eastern Islands. The Mahomedan religion

prevails generally throughout this part of the island, but
in the northern provinces, beyond Mandhar, and generally
in every interior part of the island, human nature appears

nearly in the same rude state as we have described it in
the interior of Borneo.

   " The people are, however, known under the general
denomination of Alfur or Arafura, which term is extended

to the same description of inhabitants in the islands farther

east ; these last do not appear to differ essentially from
the Orang Dayak of Borneo, and may with them be con
sidered as the aborigines of these islands. The Celebes,

from its peculiar figure, seems admirably adapted for the
purposes of commercial intercourse ; and although but a

very small portion seems yet to have advanced to any
degree of civilization, they are renowned among other

eastern nations for the spirit of commerce and war.  They

vol, H.                            2d

402  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

have established various colonies on the opposite coast of

Borneo, and on the shores of the adjacent islands, and

even maintain an influence of no inconsiderable weight

in the politics of the Malayan States west as far as the

Straits of Malacca. The Bugis and Macasar nations,

like the Javanese, are nations perfectly distinct from the

Malays ; but we are not yet sufficiently acquainted with

the native history, to assert how far they are entitled to be

considered as the indigenous inhabitants of the country.
   " We know pretty accurately the date of the introduc

tion of the Mahomedan faith, and some leading circum

stances relating to the conversion of the people ; but from

the advanced state of their civilization compared with that
of the Arafuras, it must be inferred, that, at the period of

its introduction, they had attained a considerable degree of

improvement beyond the bulk of the population; and,

indeed, we are borne out by tradition and history in the

belief that, in this part of the island, there existed a power

ful nation, long antecedent to the introduction of Maho-

medanism. We are not, however, prepared to say from
what foreign quarter this portion of the native population

was first civilized, and we are not yet informed whether,
as in Java, any traces are to be found of Hinduism. On

these points, and in short on every essential point, we

have much to learn; and the field is so important and

Iinteresting, that flatter myself the period is not far dis

tant when the pages of our transactions may throw much
Ilight on the subject. We have already, as
                                            before

noticed, obtained through the assistance of Captain Phil-

lips, the Resident, very extensive vocabularies of the

language, and the inquiries which have been set on foot

by that gentleman, at the suggestion of the Society,

promise the most interesting results.
   " Farther East lies the Island of Jelolo or Halamahira,

TO THE B ATA VI AN SOCIETY.  403

which is situated between the Moluccas and the Papua
Islands, as Celebes itself is situated between the Moluccas

and Borneo. Jelolo has sometimes, from its form, been
denominated Little Celebes. With the western coast of this

Island we are less acquainted, but the inhabitants of the
eastern coasts, especially those of Asa and Maba, are,
from their connexion on the Moluccas, well known. These,

however, would appear to occupy so small a portion of the
country compared with the Alfurs, that we can hardly be
said to be yet fully acquainted with the bulk of the

inhabitants.

   "On this island, therefore, and the group of smaller

islands in its neighbourhood, including the Moluccas, the
first object appears to be that of ascertaining correctly
what is already known ; and after reducing the same to
such a form as may furnish a basis, or at least determined

points, from which to proceed on further inquiry and inves
tigation, to persevere steadily in the attainment of what is
deficient. Our information on the natural history of the
Moluccas is perhaps more complete than that of any region
of the East, and it is not among the least distinguished
records of our Society, that we find a manuscript copy of
an original work of the celebrated Rumphius.

  I I" fear have already detained you too long in thus

particularising the present state of these Islands, consider

ing that however interesting and important they may be,
as lying contiguous to the seat of our deliberations, they
embrace but a small portion of the extensive tract which

Ilays open to the Society, even within the range that am

desirous of defining. To enter upon the whole, otherwise

Ithan generally, would be foreign to the object of the pre

sent discourse, and am far from being competent to

Iundertake the task ; but while hastily pass over New

 Guinea and New Holland, with the numerous islands of

                                                                             2 d2

404  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

 the Southern Seas, reserving the observations which occur

Ion these for a future occasion, cannot refrain from notic

 ing the rapid progress of the European settlements in the
more Southern parts of New Holland, and anticipating
the practicability of obtaining, in concert with men of

 research in that quarter, early and interesting information
on many important points which still remain doubtful.

    " Much has been said and collected by Mr. Dalrymple
on the Sulu Islands, and on the large Island of Mindanawi
or Majindanau, but it must be confessed that very little
light is yet thrown on the history of man in those regions
--the mine is still unexplored, and from the notice in the
writings of the Signor Margarette and others on Luconia
and the Philippine Islands, much may still be expected
in aid of what has already been suggested.

   " From the intimate political connexion now open with

the Spanish possessions in both hemispheres, the period

Iis, trust, not far distant, when an intercourse between

our Society and similar institutions existing at Manilla,
may bring to light much interesting information. Under
existing circumstances, it will naturally occur, that no

time should be lost in opening correspondence, and in

encouraging the most unreserved and cordial com

munication.

  I" Had not already trespassed too long on your time,
I should have been inclined to indulge at some length on

the prospect which the projected enterprise to Japan
affords in aid of our researches in that quarter. From
the distinguished talents of Dr. Ainslie, the English
Secretary to the Society, who proceeds as commissioner on
the part of the English government, we have just grounds
for anticipating the acquisition of much that is to be learnt

from these remote and interesting countries.

  I" must, however, now apologise for the very uncon

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  405

Inected and diffuse manner in which have taken the
Iliberty to address you. The occasion required that
Ishould say something, and have already stated how
Iinadequate felt myself to say anything to the purpose.
I cannot, however, conclude without offering to you my

congratulations on the revival of the Institution under its

present promising circumstances, nor without noticing the
liberal manner in which you have undertaken the publica
tion of a 'New Edition of the Sacred Scriptures in the

IMalayan character.' Allow me to assure you that am

individually deeply interested in the success of the Insti
tution, and that, while it may be in my power, from my
official situation, or otherwise, to encourage and protect
your laudable pursuits and undertakings, you may calcu
late on the most unreserved and liberal support of

government."

" a discourse delivered on the 11th september, 1815,

      by the honourable thomas stamford raffles,

       president.
          " Gentlemen,

  " A series of domestic afflictions, alas ! but too well

known to you all, have followed in such quick succession
to the melancholy event which it has long been my duty

Ito communicate, that, until the present hour, have felt

myself in every way unequal to the trying task of publicly
announcing to you the death of our noble and enlightened
patron, the late Earl of Minto ; an event so unlooked for,
and so painfully calamitous in its immediate effects, that,
to use the energetic language of Mr. Muntinghe, it
'obliged vs,' as it were, 'to close our lips before the

Almighty !'

   " For how difficult was it to be reconciled to our wishes,

40H  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

and to our natural conceptions of right and wrong, that a
man of such public and private worth should have been

lost to his country, and snatched away from the embraces
of his friends and family, at the very moment he was
to receive the only reward which, in this world, could

recompense his past labours --a calm and placid recollec
tion of the arduous, but successful career he had run !

How difficult was it to be reconciled to our ideas of re

munerative justice, that the man who had so successfully

served his country should only live to see his triumphs

completed, but not be allowed to enjoy them; that he

should not even have been allowed to live the necessary

space of time to make the extent of his services known,

and to describe the nature of the conquests he had made !

And  in this instance,       may occur that the public and
     if,

             if

                        a

                              it

                                        is
                                       it
the nation is, not more, at least as much, the sufferer as

the individual, how, again,                 to be reconciled to indivi

dual desert, that man so eminent in private and domestic

virtue; who had been seen, descending from the high

station which he held, hastening in person to the pestilen

tial shores of Batavia, administering on the way every

aid and assistance to a sickly son and who, after this
of
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                    !

                                                                          ;
beloved son fell a sacrifice, knew how to tranquillize

his mind by the consoling reflection, that his death was

the first and only grievance which either this son or any
    his children had ever inflicted on their parents that this

father, blessed with such a family, and with such a sense

of domestic felicity, should be snatched away by death,

almost in sight of his home, and while they were stretching

forth their arms to receive and embrace him

  " If not so strong and intense in their feeling, yet of the

same nature, and more extensive in their operation, were

the ties which attached him to this colony --to the whole

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  407

community of Java, and especially to our Society : a tender
and parental care for the Island of Java was publicly
avowed on different occasions ; the proofs of it were
received ; the European community was saved and pre
served by his humanity, and on his responsibility : for the
native administration principles were laid down, on which
the whole of the present structure has been raised ; and
in every instance a wish was evinced of improving the
successes of war, as much in favour of the conquered as of

the conqueror.

   " It would not be proper on this occasion to enter into

particulars ; but who does not gratefully recollect the
general tenor of his Lordship's conduct and demeanour
while on Java ? administering aid and assistance with his
own hands to the maimed and wounded of his enemies ;

setting, in the midst of his successes, an example of mo
deration and simplicity of manner even to the vanquished
--proceeding often in public without any other signs of
greatness and distinction than what the whole community,
singly and jointly, were eager to show him ; never missing
an opportunity of doing even a temporary good ; and
conciliating, by these means, the minds of the public to
 such a degree, that enemies were rendered friends, and
that the names of conqueror and subduer were lost in
those of protector and liberator. How hard, therefore,
was it for the befriended and protected to lose their pro
tector and liberator ; and for the protector himself not to
be allowed to see the fruits of his benevolence come to a

proper maturity !

    " But, however deeply we may, from these reflections,

be led to bewail this melancholy event, let us beware

not to murmur against the ways of Providence. Let

 us rather draw from all these circumstances the consoling

408  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

reflection, that the deficiency will be amply filled up in
another state, where life, bliss, and happiness will be ever

lasting.
    " Having paid this humble tribute to the memory of

Iour departed Patron, proceed to notice the result of

those inquiries, which have either been set on foot by the

ISociety, or have fallen under its immediate observation, in

the various branches of its pursuits, since had last the
honour of publicly addressing you.

   " At that period Dr. Horsfield had, under instructions

from Government, just commenced his laborious exertions
on Banca : we have since seen those exertions brought to

Ia close ; and have to report the collection of the most

complete information regarding the position, constitution,
and productions of that important island. The state of

society has not been omitted in the investigation, and
satisfactory data have been furnished, on which to esti
mate the present condition of its inhabitants, as well as to

contemplate plans for their progressive advancement in
civilization and happiness.

  " It is during the later periods only of the European

establishments in the East that Banca has attracted

notice. The discovery of the tin mines, about the con
clusion of the last century, first gave it celebrity ; but we
can only date the commencement of scientific investiga
tion, or of European control, from the period of its ces
sion to the British Government in 1812. The Dutch
Government, it is true, set on foot various inquiries at
different periods; and some account of the population
and produce of the country is contained in the earlier
volumes of our Transactions ; but those views being

confined to commercial objects, and the despotic sway
of the native government of Palembang still remaining

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  409

absolute, but little was known of the country beyond
the extent of the produce in tin which it could annually

export.

   " In explanation of the geographical description, and in

order to point out the places referred to in the descrip
tions of the mines, and in the detail of the mineralogical
and botanical remarks, Dr. Horsfield has constructed the

outline of a map, in which are laid down the principal
rivers, the mountains and ridges of hills, with the settle
ments of the Malays and Chinese, and the divisions

adopted by the original inhabitants.

   " After entering into a detailed geographical account
of the island, and furnishing statistic tables of the popu
lation and produce, Dr. Horsfield proceeds to a narrative
of the mineralogical appearances, as explanatory of the
constitution of the mines, and of the geological history of

the country.

   " On the mineralogical constitution of Banca, he ob
serves, that ' the direction of the island being from north
west to south-east, it follows not only the direction of

Sumatra and the Malayan peninsula, but the large chain
of Asiatic mountains, one of the many branches of which
terminates in Ceylon, while another, traversing Arakan,

Pegu, the Malayan peninsula, and probably Sumatra,
sends off an inferior range through Banca and Billiton,
where it may be considered to disappear.' The elevated
parts of Banca are observed to have the same constitu
tion as the great continental chain, being composed prin
cipally of granite. Next to these occurs a species of rock,
which he terms ' red iron-stone,' extensively distributed on
situations of secondary elevation, in single rocks, or in
veins of many united together, covering large tracts of
country. Tracts composed of this stone are bounded by
alluvial districts, which are again subdivided into such as

410 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

are formed of waving hills, gradually rising on each other,
apparently of prior formation, and of such as are low and
level, of recent origin, and confining the discharge of
rivers. Those districts which occur in juxtaposition of
the primitive portions, filling the space between these and
the veins of ' red iron-stone ;' or, again, between those and
the alluvial parts, are stratified, the strata being uniformly

horizontally arranged.

  " It is through these horizontal strata that the tin ore

is represented to be disseminated ; and, as far as has

hitherto been remarked, it appears to lie either imme
diately under the surface, or at no great distance below it.

   ' Another section of the report contains a view of the
tin mines, exhibiting a general enumeration of those
worked at present, or in former periods, with an account
of the process of mining, and of the economy of the

mines.

   " The process of mining on Banca is remarkable for its
simplicity ; it consists in an excavation, of a square or
oblong form, made by digging perpendicularly to the

beds, or strata, containing the ore, and in a proper appli
cation of the water, to facilitate the labours of the miners
and the washing of the ore. There is no necessity, as in
other countries, where the metal lies concealed in deep
veins, to have recourse to difficult operations, or expensive
machinery. The process, indeed, requires so little pre
vious instruction, that it is mostly performed by persons

whose only qualification is a robust constitution. A

favourable spot being selected, the pit is sketched out ; a
canal conducted from the nearest rivulet ; and the miners
excavate until they arrive at the stratum containing the
ore : this is then deposited in heaps near the water, so as
to be conveniently placed for washing. The aqueduct is
lined with the bark of large trees ; and a stronger current

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.                     411

being produced by the admission of more water, the heaps
are thrown in and agitated by the workmen --the particles

of ore subsiding by means of their gravity, and the earth

being carried away by the current.
   " When a sufficient quantity of ore is thus accumulated,

the process of smelting commences : this is also very mi

nutely and accurately described by Dr. Horsfield. It is

unnecessary to observe, that almost all the operations con

nected with the process of mining and the refining of the

metal are performed by Chinese.

   " In his botanical pursuits, Dr. Horsfield has been

peculiarly successful ; his descriptions comprising a collec

tion of upwards of five hundred plants, of which sixteen

appear to be of doubtful genera.
   " An account of the inhabitants, their mode of life and

occupations, the state of agriculture, and the history of

the different settlements, is introduced into this valuable

Ireport, which hope will shortly appear in print, under
Ithe liberal patronage and support of the East India Com

pany. In this expectation, and that may not diminish

the interest excited in its favour, or exceed the latitude
Iwith which am vested, by more extensive drafts on the
Iinteresting information which it contains,
                                             shall close

these notices on Banca by a short account of the extent

and character of the population, as it appeared to Dr.

Horsfield at the early period of the establishment of Eu

ropean influence.

The inhabitants of Banca consist of Malays, Chinese,

Orang Gunung, or mountaineers, and Ray ads, (Orang
Laut,) or sea people. The Malays are few in number, of

a peaceable disposition, but indolent, and of little import

ance in the affairs of the island. The Chinese preserve,

on Banca, their original habits of industry, enterprise,

and perseverance; they are the most useful among the

                                                              -

 412 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

 inhabitants, and indispensable in the labours of the mines.
 The general character of the Orang Gvnung, or moun
 taineers, the original, and, perhaps, most interesting por
 tion of the population, is rude simplicity. Dispersed
 over large tracts in the interior of the country, they live
 nearly in a state of nature, but submit without resistance
 to the general regulations which have been established,
and willingly perform the labours required of them, al
 though their natural timidity and wandering habits render
 them, in a considerable degree, inaccessible to Europeans.
The Rayads are the remains of a peculiar race of people
so called, living with their families and household in small
prows in the Bays of Jebus and Klabut, and obtaining a
subsistence by fishing and adventure : particulars of the
habits and dialects of both the mountaineers and Rayads
will form a separate notice.

   " On Borneo, if we have not derived the advantage of

scientific inquiry, we have yet added considerably to our
stock of information, in a more correct knowledge of the
character and habits of the native population ; in the col
lection of vocabularies of many of the dialects of the
country, and in the attainment of many interesting par
ticulars regarding the extensive colonies of Chinese, by
which the gold mines are worked.

   " Some notices have been received of ruins of temples,
statues, and dilapidated cities, and of the existence of
various inscriptions in different parts of the country, in
characters unknown to the Chinese, Malay, or Dayak ;
but the information yet received is too vague, and, in

some instances, too contradictory to be relied upon ; and
the question whether this island, at any former period,
rose to any considerable degree of greatness, must yet
remain undecided. Embanking, as it were, the navigable
pathway between the eastern and western hemispheres,

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  413

and lying contiguous to the most populous regions of the
globe, China and Japan, there can be little doubt but, at
one period, she must have risen far above her present
state of degradation and neglect. That Borneo was
visited, many centuries ago, by the Chinese and Japa
nese is well established; but whether the country was
ever more extensively colonized by either of those nations,
than it is at present from China, must be left to future
inquiry. Porcelain jars, plates, vases, and earthen uten
sils of various descriptions, the manufacture of China
and Japan, are frequently discovered in different parts of
the country ; and such is the veneration in which these
articles, so found, are held, that a single jar of this de
scription has been known to be purchased by the Dayaks
of the interior for a sum not far short of two hundred

pounds sterling : these jars are prized by the Dayaks as
the supposed depositories of the ashes of their fore

fathers.

  I" would here notice the information collected regard

ing the different tribes of Dayaks which have come under
observation, did not the detail appear misplaced in the

Ivery general view which am, of necessity, compelled to
Itake of the subject. will only observe, that from a com

parative vocabulary of as many of their dialects as are at
present attainable, they appear to differ but little from
the Malayan ; that of the numerous tribes described by
name and peculiarities, several are represented as tat

tooed; and that some are noticed with curled hair, and

resembling the Papuas.

   " In the vicinity of Banjar-Masing, no opportunity has
been lost of improving our intelligence. Mr. Alexander
Hare, the founder of the interesting colony established in
the southern part of the island, has himself penetrated

across the south-western peninsula; and as confidence in

414  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

creases, we mav look to a moi-e extensive intercourse with

the rude and scattered tribes of the interior.
I" In a former discourse,
                           took occasion to notice, that

the most prominent people on Celebes were the Bugis and

Macasar ; that, though speaking different languages, they

adopted the same peculiar written character ; and that the

Mahomedan religion prevailed generally in those parts of

the island which might be considered to have at all ad

vanced from a state of barbarism.
   " Confining our observations to the south-western limb

of this whimsically-shaped island, we may infer that, not

withstanding the country has greatly declined since its
intercourse with Europeans, it may still be reckoned popu
lous, compared with many of the islands of the East.

The population has been roughly estimated at about a

million ; but the data on which this estimate was formed,

are not to be unreservedly relied upon.

   " About the period of the first arrival of Europeans in
the East, the Macasar and Bugis tribes were among the

principal dealers in spices, and the Island of Celebes was
nearly under the authority of a single Sovereign. On the
breaking down of this great empire, several of the minor

states submitted to European administration ; while the

support given to the authority of Boni, and the monopoly

of the spice-trade by Europeans, effectually reduced the
political influence of the ancient state of Goa.

   " The most ancient state of which tradition makes

mention on Celebes, is Luhu, or Luwu, situated in the

inner part of the Bay of Boni ; and their galigas, or his

torical romances, are replete with the adventures and ex

ploits of Sawira Gading, the first Chief of that country,

and who is said to have extended his dominions to the

Straits of Malacca. Next to Luhu, the empire of Goa

has the greatest claims to antiquity ; and a period is

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  415

mentioned when this state extended its influence to
Acheen, Manda, Sulu, Ternate, and the whole of the

Spice Islands.

   " In 1663 Rajah Palaka visited Batavia, and in 1666
co-operated with the Dutch government against the native
states on the coast of Sumatra. From this period the
authority of Boni advanced, until the recent arrangements
by the British government.

   " The Macasar and Bugis tribes are known to be the
most bold, adventurous, and enterprising of all the Eastern

nations. They were formerly celebrated for their fidelity
and their courage, and for this reason were employed, as
the Swiss in Europe, not only in the armies of Siam,
Camboja, and other countries, but also as guards to their

princes.
   The most singular feature in the constitution of society

on Celebes, is that of an elective monarchy, limited by an
Aristocracy, generally hereditary, and exercising feudal

authority over the minor Chiefs and population, at all
times prepared to take the field ; a constitution of society
which, however common to Europe, is perhaps without
parallel in Asia, where, from the influence of climate, reli
gion, and political institutions, we seldom witness any
considerable departure from the despotic sway of one
individual. The whole of the states on that portion of

ICelebes to which have alluded are constituted on this

principle : the Prince is chosen from the royal stock by a
certain number of councillors, who also possess the right
of subsequently removing him ; these councillors are
themselves elected from particular families of the here
ditary Chiefs of provinces; and such is their influence,
that the Prince can neither go to war, nor, indeed, adopt
any public measure, except in concert with them : they
have the charge of the public treasure, and also appoint

416  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

the Prime-minister. The Prince cannot himself take the

personal command of the army ; but the usage of the
country admits of a temporary resignation of office for
this purpose ; in which case a Regent succeeds provision
ally to the rank of Chief, and carries on the affairs of
government in concert with the majority of the council.
Women and minors are eligible to election in every de
partment of the state, from the Prince down to the lowest
Chief; and when this takes place, an additional officer,

having a title which literally means support, or prop, is

appointed to assist. Some variation is observable in the
different states : in Boni, the Prince is elected by the
Orang Pitu, or seven hereditary councillors ; in Goa, the
Prince is chosen by ten councillors, of whom the first
minister, termed Bechara Buta, is one. This last officer

is himself first appointed by the council of nine, termed
the nine farmers of the country ; but in the exercise of

his office possesses very extraordinary powers : he can
even remove the Prince himself, and call upon the electors
to make another choice. The inferior Chiefs, or Kraim,

who administer the dependent provinces, are appointed
by the government, and not elected by a council, although,
in the exercise of their office their power is in like manner
limited ; the number of the council varying, in different

provinces, from two to seven.

   " War is decided upon in the council of the state ; and
so forcibly is the desperate ferocity and barbarism of the

people depicted by the conduct they observe on these
occasions, and in their subsequent proceedings towards
their enemies, that, however revolting the contemplation
of such a state of society may be, it forms too striking a

trait in their character to be omitted. War being decided

upon by the Prince in council, the assembled Chiefs, after
sprinkling their banners with blood, proceed to take a

          TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.      417

solemn oath, by dipping their criss in a vessel of water,
and afterwards dancing around the bloody banner with
frantic gesture, and a strange contortion of the body and
limbs, so as to give the extended criss a tremulous motion :
each severally imprecates the vengeance of the Deity

against his person, if he violates his vow. An enemy is

no sooner slain, than the body is decapitated, and treated
with every indignity which the barbarous triumph of
savages can dictate; the heads are carried on poles, or

sent in to the Lord Paramount. Some accounts go so far
as to represent them devouring the raw heart of their
subdued enemy ; and whatever shadow of doubt humanity
may throw over this appalling fact, it cannot be denied
that their favourite meal is the raw heart and blood of
the deer. This repast is termed Lor Dara, or the feast
of the bloody heart, which they are said to devour, as

among the Battas, in the seasons when limes and salt are

plenty.
   " This, however, is viewing them on the worst side of

their character, with immediate reference to their conduct

in war, and to practices found to prevail among that por
tion of the population labouring under the restrictions on
foreign commerce ; there are other points of view in which
it may be more favourably considered.

   " The inhabitants of the Wadju districts, in particular,

are celebrated for their enterprise and intelligence; ex

tending their commercial speculations, with a high cha

racter for honourable and fair dealing, from the western

shores of Siam to the eastern coast of New Holland.

Women, as before observed, take an active part in all pub

lic concerns, and are in no instances secluded from society,

being on a perfect equality with the men. The strongest

attachment that is conceivable is felt for ancient customs,

and relics of antiquity are held in the highest possible

VOL. II.                            2E

418  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

veneration. They are slow and deliberate in their deci

sions; but these, once formed, are final. Agreements,

once entered into, are invariably observed on their part ;

and a Bugis is never known to swerve from his bargain.
That natural politeness which characterizes the various

nations and tribes distinguished by wearing the criss, is

nowhere more forcibly exhibited than among the inha
bitants of Celebes. Their minor associations are held

together by all the attachment and warmth which have
distinguished the clans of North Britain. The same bold
spirit of independence and enterprise distinguishes the
lower orders ; whilst the pride of ancestry, and the
romance of chivalry, are the delight of the higher classes.

Attached to the chace as an amusement, rather than as

the means of subsistence, the harvest is no sooner reaped,
than each feudal Chief, with his associates and followers,

devotes himself to its pursuits. The population being
equally at the command of the feudal Lord, whether in
time of peace or war, agricultural pursuits, beyond what

may procure a bare subsistence, are but little attended to.
The usual share of the crop at the disposal of the Chief

is a tythe termed Sima : this, with a few imposts in the

Bazars, and the services of the people, constitute the

revenue of the state.
   " The languages and literature of the Celebes require

a more extended and detailed view than it is possible to
Itake of either on the present occasion.
                                          shall, therefore,

only briefly observe, that the language prevalent through

out these states appears, at no very remote period, to
have been the same; but that the various revolutions

which first raised the power of Goa, and subsequently
elevated that of Boni to a still higher importance, have,
in separating the states under two distinct authorities,

given rise to two prevailing dialects, now assuming the

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  419

appellation of two distinct languages --the language of

Goa or Macasar is peculiarly soft, and is considered to be
the most easy of acquisition, but not to be so copious as

that of the Bugis --whether the Bugis language contains
any portion of a more ancient language than either (of
which traces are said to exist in some old manuscripts of

the country), or, from commercial intercourse with other
states, has adopted more foreign terms, is yet to be de

termined --the written character is nearly the same ; the

Macasars, however, using more consonant sounds than
the Bugis -- the same practice of softening the abrupt or
harsh sound of a word ending in a consonant, by attach
ing a final a or o, so general in almost every tongue of the

IArchipelago, is common to, and, believe, invariably ob

served in both these languages.
   "The possible existence of a language distinct from,

and anterior to those now in use, is a subject well deserv

ing enquiry. The Bugis trace back to Sawira Gading,
whom they represent to have proceeded in immediate
descent from their heavenly mediator, Bitara Guru, and
to have been the first Chief of any celebrity on Celebes.

IHe reigned, as before observed, over Luhu, the most

ancient kingdom on Celebes, and a lapse of time equal to
seven descents is said to have taken place before the
establishment of Boni. Both this Chieftain, and the

founder of the empire of Goa, are represented to have

been great navigators and foreigners, or, according to the
romance of native tradition, deities sent from heaven to

govern and take care of them. The inhabitants of Maca

sar have no idea by what means, and at what period, the
present form of government, of the nine Glarang, and the
Bichara Buta of Goa, was established.

    " Literary compositions, in both the Macasar and

Bugis languages, are numerous : these consist principally

                                                 2e2

420  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

of historical accounts of the different states, since the

introduction of Mahomedanism, which is represented to

have taken place so late as the early part of the sixteenth

century ; of Galigas, or collections of traditions, regarding

more early times ; of romances and poetical compositions,

in which love, war, and the chace are the favourite themes.

They possess a paraphrase of the Koran, and several

works evidently translated from the Javanese and Arabic,

and many in common with the Malayu--works on judicial

astrology, collections of institutions and customs which

have all the force of law ; and each principal state adopts

the practice of duly recording every public event of im

portance as it occurs.

  I" shall not longer detain you with notices on our ex

ternal relations, while so wide and interesting a field
attracts attention at home, on Java, and that range of

islands which modern geographers have classed under the
Idenomination of the Sunda Islands.
                                     have hitherto re

frained from noticing the extensive traces of antiquity,

foreign intercourse, and national greatness, which are

exhibited in the numerous monuments of a former wor

ship, in the ruins of dilapidated cities, in the character,

the institutions, the language, and the literature of the

people, in the hope that abler pens would have attempted

a more correct sketch than either my humble abilities or

limited information enable me to contemplate or embrace:

the subject is so extensive, so new, so highly interesting,
Ithat must claim your indulgence,
     I                               in aiming at con
              I if,
                                I
ciseness in representing the appearances and facts which

have most forcibly struck my attention, many still more

important particulars pass unnoticed.
   " On the peculiar province of Dr. Horsfield, to whom

am indebted for whatever information possess on the

natural history of the Island, shall not further trespass

TO THK BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  421

than by adverting to the extensive and almost endless
variety which these regions present, in every branch of

his pursuits. One observation, however, as connected
with the earlier history of Java, in explaining the high
fertility of its soil in comparison with that of the Malayan
Peninsula and Sumatra, may deserve notice in this place.
From the result of every investigation yet made, the con
stitution of Java appears to be exclusively volcanic, with
out any admixture whatever of the primitive or secondary
mountains of the Asiatic continent; while, on the con

trary, Sumatra, with Banca, as before noticed, appear to
be a continuation and termination of the immense chain

of mountains which pervades great part of Asia, and runs
off finally in a direction north-west to south-east. Java

deviates from the direction of Sumatra and the Peninsula

of Malacca, in striking off directly west and east ; in this
direction it is followed by the larger islands of Bali, Lom-
bok, Sumbawa, Endi, Timor, and by many smaller, which
contribute to constitute an extensive series --the direction,

as well as the constitution of all the islands enumerated,

indicates the existence of an extensive volcanic chain in

this part of the globe, running many degrees almost
parallel with the equator. The consequences of Java

being exclusively volcanic are, that while Sumatra abounds
in metals, Java, generally speaking, is destitute of them * ;

   * All the indications yet discovered confirm the assertion that the

constitution of Java is unfavourable to metals. The only notice as to
the existence of gold or silver is contained in the first volume of the
Transactions of the Batavian Society ; and the attempts on Gunung
 Parang in 1723, and on the Mege Mendung in 1744, were soon
abandoned. Iron pyrites is found in small quantities in several dis
tricts, as well as red ochre, which, however, often contains so little
iron as scarcely to serve for the common purpose of a paint. The ex
 istence of mercury in the low lands of Damak, where it is distributed
 in minute particles through the clay of the rice-grounds bounding one

of the principal rivers in that district, cannot be considered. as an in

 dication of a mine, or of ores of that metal.

422  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

that while on Sumatra there are many extensive tracts,
sterile and unfavourable to vegetation, Java, with few ex

ceptions, is covered with a soil in the highest degree
fertile, luxuriant, and productive of every species of

vegetation.

   " Referring to the ample details on the mineralogy of
Java, which the scientific and persevering exertions of
Dr. Horsfield have enabled us to include in our present

Ivolume, shall, on this branch of our pursuits, only ob

serve, that catalogues and collections of the varieties in
the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms, as they have
been found to exist on Java, have been formed by this

gentleman, who is at present engaged in exploring the
districts lying to the east and south of Souracarta, with
the view of completing materials for the natural history of

Java --his Flora Javana is already far advanced; the
geography of plants is a subject to which he has particu
larly directed his researches. From the extensive range
of the thermometer between the high and the low lands,
Java presents to the botanist, at the least, six distinct
associations of plants or floras, indigenous to as many

climates, defined by their comparative elevation above the
level of the sea *.

    * The height of the principal mountains on Java is estimated at
from 7000 to 8000 feet above the level of the sea. Several of them
have been ascended, and measures are now in progress for ascertaining
the elevation with some degree of accuracy. Lieut. Heyland, who
has several times ascended Sindoro, observes, " that on reaching the
summit on the 20th May, 1813, the sun had set, and the thermometer
of Fahrenheit stood at 36°. During the night the thermometer varied
 between 36° and 44°; and as the day broke on the morning of the
21st, it was at 26°, a second thermometer at 30°. He immediately
proceeded to the lake, and found it covered with ice of the thickness

of about two Spanish dollars. A piece of double this thickness, found

 some distance from the edge on the same lake, induced a belief that
it had remained unthawed on the day preceding, and had now re
ceived the addition of a second night's frost. The water in the soup-
 plates which had been used as hot-water-plates the evening before,

TO THK BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  423

  If" to the naturalist Java exhibits these extensive and

wonderful varieties, to the antiquarian, the philologist,
and the philosopher, she in like manner offers subjects of
equal novelty, and even of higher interest, whether we
investigate the splendid remains of her temples and her
cities, her languages and her literature, or the character*
institutions, and customs of her inhabitants.

   " To attempt any satisfactory description of the various
monuments of antiquity and of a former worship, which
are to be found in almost every district of the island,

would be impracticable on the present occasion, and, with

Ithe exception of a few notices, must content myself with

assuring you, that however deficient we may be in scien
tific information, or in a knowledge of the mythology

sacred to which these monuments may have been reared,

measures have been taken that a record, to be depended
upon for exactness at least, should exist of the actual

Iremains of Hinduism on Java. am indebted to Captain

Baker, who is now actively engaged in these pursuits, for
the most accurate sketches of the present appearance of
the most important of these ruins, as well as for ground-
plans and elevations of the principal temples, with notices
of much valuable information which is to be collected of

their origin, object, and history.

   " You are aware that the most splendid of these monu

ments are to be found at Prambana, Boro Bodo, and

Singa Sari ;--of the former an interesting description is
given in the last volume of our Transactions, by our

highly-esteemed friend, Colonel Mackenzie ; circumstances
have since admitted of a more minute investigation, and

was completely frozen through, and the ice the thickness of an inch."
On another excursion, in October, 1814, the thermometers fell to 36

and 38, and the ice formed on them after they had been immersed in
water and exposed to the air.

                                                                       -

424  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRKSS

our information, as far as regards their present state, is
much more complete. These extensive ruins hold claim to
the highest antiquity, and considering the vicinity of the
temples to have been the seat of the earliest monarchy on

Java, I may be permitted, in the words of Captain Baker,

to lament the contrast of the present times, with ' times
long since past.' ' Nothing,' he observes, ' can exceed the
air of melancholy, desolation, and ruin, which this spot
presents ; and the feelings of every visitor must be for
cibly in unison with the scene of surrounding devastation,
when he reflects upon the origin of this once-venerated,
hallowed spot; the seat and proof of the perfection of
arts now no longer in existence in Java ; the type and
emblem of a religion no longer acknowledged, and scarce

known among them by name; when he reflects upon
that boundless profusion of active, unwearied skill and
patience, the noble spirit of generous emulation, the

patronage and encouragement which the arts and sci

ences must have received, and the inexhaustible wealth

and resources which the Javanese of those times must

have possessed.'

   " In attempting to describe the Chandi Sewo, or Thou
sand Temples, which form a principal part of these ruins,

he laments his inability to convey any adequate ideas,
satisfactory to his own mind, even of the actual dis
mantled state of this splendid seat of magnificence and

Iof the arts. ' Never,' he observes, ' have met with such

stupendous, laborious, and finished specimens of human
labour, and of the polished, refined taste of ages long
since forgot, and crowded together in so small a compass,
as characterize and are manifested in this little spot ; and

Ithough doubt not there are some remains of antiquity

in other parts of the globe more worthy the eye of the
traveller, or the pencil of the artist, yet Chandi Sewo

                            TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.

must ever rank with the foremost in the attractions of

curiosity or antiquarian research.'

  I" have preferred giving you the words of Captain

Baker, while the subject was fully impressed on his mind,
and while in the midst of the objects which he contem
plated : there is a feeling excited at such a moment that
gives a colouring to the picture, which is weakened in the
faded tints of a more distant view.

   " Next to Prambana the ruins of Boro Bodo may be

ranked as remarkable for grandeur in design, peculiarity
of style, and exquisite workmanship : this temple is in the
district of Boro, under the residency of the Kadu, whence

I presume it takes its name : Bodo being either a term of

contempt cast upon it by the Mahomedans, or erroneously
so pronounced, instead of Bud'ho, which, in its general
acceptation in the Javanese language, is synonymous

with ancient or heathen. It is built so as to crown the

upper part of a small hill, the summit terminating in a
dome : the building is square, and is composed of seven
terraces rising one within the other, each of which is

enclosed by stone walls, the ascent to the different ter
races being by four flights of steps leading from four
principal entrances, one on each side of the square. On
the top are several small latticed domes, the upper part

terminating in one of a larger circumference. In separate

niches, or rather temples, at equal distances, formed in
the walls of the several terraces, are contained upwards of
three hundred stone images of devotees, in a sitting pos
ture, and being each above three feet high. Similar
images are within the domes above ; in compartments on
the walls, both within and without, are carved in relief,
and in the most correct and beautiful style, groups of
figures containing historical scenes and mythological cere
monies, supposed to be representations of a principal part

426                MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

either of the Ramayan or Mahaborat. The figures and

costumes are evidently Indian, and we are at a loss

whether most to admire the extent and grandeur of the

whole construction, or the beauty, richness, and correct

ness of the sculpture.
   " The name and resemblance of the images which sur

round this temple to the figure of Buddha has induced

an opinion that it was exclusively confined to the worship

of that deity : but it should be noticed that in the imme

diate vicinity of this large temple, and evidently con

nected with are the remains of several smaller temples,is it,

constructed much after the fashion of the temples ata

Prambana, and containing a variety of sculptures andit

images of the Brahminical worship. A large but muti

lated stone figure of Brahma was found in field hard
                                         a
by; and as there are images similarly resembling Buddha
                                          if
to be found at Prambana,         would seem that, they are

ascertained to represent that deity, these buildings must

have been erected at period when the worship was not

separated.

   " Although the general design of this temple differs
from those at Prambana, a similar style of sculpture and

decoration observable, and the same may be also traced
to the ruins at Singa Sari, situated in the Residency of
Pasaruan, where are still to be found images of Brahma,

Mahadewa, Ganesa, the Bull Nandi and others, of the

most exquisite workmanship, and in still higher degree
                                 a

                                                   :

                                                                  a
of preservation than any remaining at Prambanan or

Boro Bodo. One of the most extraordinary monuments

in this quarter, however,        an immense colossal statue of
                   it
a man resting on his hams, of the same character as theis

porters at Prambanan, lying on its face, and adjacent to

terrace, on which  was originally placed this statue

measures in length about twelve feet, breadth between

TO THE BATAV1AN SOCIETY.  427

the shoulders nine feet and a half, and at the base nine

feet and a half, with corresponding dimensions in girth,
cut from one solid stone. The statue seems evidently to

have fallen from the adjacent elevated terrace, although it
is difficult to reconcile the probability of its having been

elevated to such a station, with reference to any traces we
now have of the knowledge of mechanics by the Java

nese--to have raised it by dint of mere manual labour

would appear, at the present day, an Herculean task : the

terrace is about eighteen feet high. A second figure of

the same dimensions has since been discovered in the

vicinity of the above; and when the forest is cleared,
some traces of the large temple to which they formed the
approach may probably be found. Not far from Singa
Sari, which was once the seat of empire, and in the dis
trict of Malang, are several interesting ruins of temples,
of similar construction, and of the same style of orna

ment.

   " These buildings must have been raised at a period
when the highest state of the arts existed, and constructed

at no very distant date from each other: considered in

this view, they serve very forcibly and decidedly to cor
roborate the historical details of the country, which are

found to exist in the different written compositions and

dramatic entertainments.

   " In noticing the more prominent remains of antiquity,

as they are to be traced from the architecture and sculp

Iture of former days, should be wanting in attention, and

indeed in a due respect to the popular tradition, and the

Istill-received opinion of the Javans, did not notice

Gunung Prahu, a mountain, or rather a range of moun
tains, for there are no less than twenty-nine points, which
have distinct names, situated on the northern side of the

island, and inland between Samarang and Pacalongan,

428  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

the supposed residence of Arjuno, and of the demi-gods

and heroes who distinguished themselves in the B'rata

Yud'ha, or Holy War. Here the ruins of the supposed
palace of the Chief, the abode of Bima, his followers and

attendants, are exhibited, and so rich was this spot in

relics of antiquity, that the village of Kali Babar, situ

ated at the foot of the mountain, is stated to have, from

time immemorial, paid its rents in gold melted down from

the golden images here discovered : so great indeed has

been the desire to meet the courtly thirst for these in

Iteresting relics, that regret to say many of the buildings

composed of materials less in demand have suffered pre

mature dilapidation on this account. Several interesting

remains have recently been discovered by Major Johnson,

Resident at the court of the Susunan ; among these the
Iruins at Suku deserve particular notice : but
                                                have

already trespassed on a subject which it is impossible to

treat well except in detail, and with reference to drawings

of the extensive variety of erections, deities, and attri

butes which abound throughout Java.

   "As connected with these early and splendid monu

ments of the former high state of the arts in Java, and

illustrative of the history of the country, are to be noticed

the great variety of inscriptions found in different parts of

the island : fac similes of most of these have been taken,

Iand am happy to add that we have succeeded in decy-

phering some of the most interesting. The character on

the stone found at Prambanan is no doubt one of the

Dewa Nagri characters of India, and, with the exception

of a few characters discovered at Singa Sari on the back

of stone images, the only specimen yet discovered of this

peculiar formation.
   " From the vicinity of the former kingdom of Jong'golo,

not far distant from the modern Surabaya, have been

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  429

brought several large stones of the shape of English tomb
stones, covered with the inscriptions of the ancient
Javanese character, and in the Kawi language ; transla

tions (or rather paraphrases, for they principally contain
prayers and invocations to the Deity, in a language, the
meaning of a few words only of which are retained, while
the idiom and grammatical construction has long been
lost) have been made and will be found on the pages of our
Transactions : it has fallen to my lot to succeed not only
in decyphering the MSS. recently discovered in Cheribon,
but also the inscriptions on the copper-plates so long de
posited among the records of our Society as unintelligible :
the results will be communicated to the Society in another
form, and the subject will be more particularly adverted
to, when speaking of the languages and literature.

   " These inscriptions, which in general contain dates,

are of the first importance in enabling us to trace the

source whence the language and literature may have
flowed, and to satisfy our minds of the prevailing wor

ship at any particular period. It is only by an assemblage

of as many data as can be collected from this source, from
the remains of the arts, from the language, literature, and
institutions of the people of the present day, compared
with the best information we can procure of other countries
of the East, which may have been civilized at an earlier

period, that we can come at any fair and just result ; the

question is too extensive, too important to be lightly
treated, or to be decided upon from any pre-conceived

opinion or partial views.

   " Did not other striking and obvious proofs exist of the
claims of Java to be considered at one period far advanced

in civilization, it might be sufficient to bring forward the
perfection of the language, the accession which that lan

guage must in early times have received from a distant

430 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

but highly cultivated source, and the extensiveness for
which it stands so peculiarly and justly distinguished.

    " On the Island of Java, two general languages may be
considered as prevalent. The Sunda language, which
prevails in the western, and the Javanese, which is the
language of the districts east of Cheribon --the former is
a simple dialect accommodated to all the purposes of the
mountainous classes who speak it, and perhaps differs
from the Javanese, not so much in its construction, as in

the portion of original and of Malayan words which it con
tains : one-fourth of the language, at the least, may be
considered to be the same as the Javanese, another fourth

is, perhaps, original, and the remaining half Malayan.

At what period this extensive portion of the Malayan was

adopted, or whether any part or the whole of this portion
may not originally have formed the common language of

this part of the country, is yet to be decided. In the

Javanese, or language of the eastern division of the Island,
and also of the lower parts of Bantam and Cheribon, the
natural or vernacular language, in like manner, contains a
considerable number of words in common with the Malayan,
and the general principles of construction are found to
have a striking accordance. We thus find strong proofs
in support of one common origin of the prevailing lan
guages of the Archipelago --notwithstanding, a large por
tion of the Malayan words now used on Java, may be

ascertained to have been received at a comparatively recent
date, and in the course of long and continued intercourse
with the neighbouring countries.

   " The Javanese language, properly so called, is distin

guished by a division between what may be considered
as the vernacular language of the country, in use by the
common people among themselves, and which is adopted
when addressing an inferior, and what may be considered as

TO THE BAtAVIAN SOCIETY.  43 L

a second, or court language, adopted by all inferiors when
addressing a superior. The same construction, as well as

Ithe idiom of the language, is, believe, pretty generally

preserved in both the languages; the latter, however,
consists of a more extensive class of foreign words, which

would appear to have been picked and culled for the pur

pose : where different words have not been found from the

common language of the country, an arbitrary variation
in the sound of the word belonging to the common

language is adopted, as in changing the word progo into

pragi, dadi into dados, Jawa into jawi, &c. ; and the more
effectually to render the polite language distinct, not only

are the affirmatives and negatives, as well as the pronouns
and prepositions varied, but the auxiliary verbs and par
ticles are in general different.

   " So effectually, indeed, does this arbitrary distinction
prevail, that in the most common occurrences and expres

sions, the language that would be used by a superior

bears not the slightest resemblance to what, with the same

object, would be used by an inferior : thus, when a superior

would say to an inferior --' It is a very long time that you

have been sick,' --he would in the common or vernacular

language use the words ' Lawas teman goni loro,' while
an inferior, using the court language, woidd to the same

Ifpurport say ' Lami terms genipun sakit.' -- the former

would ask the question, ' Your child, is it a boy or a girl V
he would use the words ' Anak kiro wadon opo lanang T
the latter would express himself ' Putro hijang,an diko,
estri punopo ?' Again, would the former observe, ' that
the people of Java, both men and women, like to preserve
the hair of the head,' --he would say, ' Wong pulu Jawa
lanang wadon podo ng'ing'u rambut,' --while the latter
would use the words, ' Tetiang heng nusa Jawi estri jalar

sami riinga remo,' &c.

432  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

   " It is not, however, to be supposed that these languages

are so separated that the one is studied and attained ex
clusively of the other, for while one is the language of
address, the other must be that of reply, and the know
ledge of both is indispensable to those who have occasion
to communicate with persons of a different rank with them

selves. In the polite language, Kawi words are frequently

introduced by the party, either to shew his reading, or

evince a higher mark of respect --the Kawi is, however,
more properly a dead language, the language of literary
compositions of the higher class, and is to the Javanese
what the Sanscrit is to the languages of Hindustan, and
the Pali is to the Burman and Siamese : how far it may

assimilate to either must remain to be decided by more

accurate comparison and observation than we have yet

had opportunity to make. It is in this language that the

more ancient and celebrated of the Uterary performances
of the country are written ; and it is probable it will be
found that, while the general language of Java possesses,
in common with all the more cultivated languages of the
Archipelago, a considerable portion of Sanscrit terms, the
court language is still more replete with them, and that
the Kawi, and particularly that which is reckoned most

ancient, and which is decyphered from inscriptions on
stone and copper-plates, is almost pure Sanscrit. The

construction and idiom in these inscriptions is no longer
comprehended by the Javanese, and there are but few

whose intelligence and acquaintance with the terms used
enables them to give even a faint notion of their meaning.
Examples of these languages, taken from the B'rata
Yud'ha, and from some of the inscriptions alluded to, will

appear in the present volume.

   " To facilitate the acquirement of a language in its
nature so extensive and varied as that of the Javanese,

                     TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.      433

Ia method is adopted similar to what understand is known

in India, of classing the synonymes in such a manner as
to connect them in the memory, by stringing them in
classes according to the natural chain of our ideas ; the
collection or vocabulary so composed, is termed doso nomo,
literally, ten names, and in point of fact, there are but few

words in the language which have not at least as many

synonymes. An example of this mode of instruction, and
of assisting the memory, is also included in the present
volume, as illustrative not only of the method alluded to,

Ibut of the great delicacy and variety of the language.
    " am happy to report that very extensive vocabularies,
not only of both divisions of the Javanese, including the
Kawi, but of the Sunda, and of the dialects of Madura
and Bali, with notices of the varieties in particular dis
tricts and mountain tribes, have been collected ; and that

whenever our more intimate acquaintance with the written
compositions of the country may afford the test of some
experience in aid of what has already been done, the grand
work of a grammar and dictionary may be accomplished;
this has long been our first and grand desideratum *.

   " In both the Sunda and Javanese languages, the same
written character is in use --and it has not yet been traced

whether the former ever had a separate written character
or not : at a place, however, called Batu Tulis, on the site
of the ancient capital of Pajajaran, is preserved an inscrip

tion on stone in very rude characters-- and several similar

inscriptions in the same character have been recently dis
covered at Kwali in Cheribon, whither some of the descen-

 J* " Considerable progress has been made since our last meeting in

the acquirement of the avanese language : the Rev. Mr. Trout, in
particular, is prosecuting his studies at Samarang with great success ;

and arrangements are in progress for procuring from Bengal a fount

of Javanese types."

VOL. II.                                       2F

434  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

dants of the Princes of Pajajaran took refuge; this
character, till lately, appeared widely different from any
other yet noticed in Java, but is now found to contain some
of the letters and vowel marks in common with the Java
nese. The date inscribed on the stone at Batu Tulis has

fortunately been deciphered, and the character was doubt
less used by the Sunda people at the period of the
destruction of the western government of Pajajaran.

   " No less than seven different characters are represented
to have been in use at different periods of Javanese history
-- and although those at present adopted appear, at first

sight, to be very different from the more ancient, on

examination, the one may without much difficulty be traced

to the other, by observing the gradual alterations made
from time to time. Specimens of these different charac
ters, with the periods in which they were respectively
used, are submitted to the inspection of the Society ; and

I regret that the absence of an engraver precludes them

from appearing in the present volume of transactions.

   "The literature of Java, however much it may have

 declined in latter days, must be still considered as
 respectable -- the more ancient historical compositions are
 mostly written in the Kawi language, to which frequently
 the meaning of each word, and a paraphrase of the whole
in Javanese, is annexed. Of these compositions those

 most highly esteemed are the B'rata Yud*ha or Holy
 War, and a volume entitled Romo or Rama, the former

 descriptive of the exploits of Arjuno, and the principal
 heroes whose fame is recorded in the celebrated Indian

 poem of the Mahabarat, the latter of those who are distin

 guished in the Ramayan : these poems are held by the
 Javanese of the present day hi about the same estimation
 as the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer are by Europeans.
 Until translations are made, and can be compared with

      TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.                            435

the more extensive works in India, it would be premature

to form any judgment on their relative excellence. The
Brata Yud'ha is contained in about two hundred verses ;

but in rendering the Kawi into Javanese, it is found ne

cessary, in order to convey anything like the meaning, to

render one line of Kawi into at least three of the modern

IJavanese; and should not omit to mention that the

belief is general among the Javanese that the seat of this
celebrated romance was on Java : they point out the dif
ferent countries which are referred to, such as Hastina,

Wirata, and others in different districts of the Island,

which have since assumed more modern names ; and the

supposed mansion of Arjuno, as before noticed, is still to

be traced on Gunung Prahu.
   " These works, in common with almost every composi

tion in the language, are composed in regularly measured

verses, and as far as we can judge from the partial trans

lations which have been made from them through the

medium of the Javanese, they do credit to the power of

the   language and the genius  of   the poet.  into  two  general
      Historical compositions        divided
   "                           are

classes, termed Pakam and Babat ; under the former are

considered the Romo and B'rata Yud'ha : institutions

and regulations for Princes and the Officers of State and

Law, entitled Kopo Kopo, Jogol Muda and Kontoro;
works on astronomy and judicial astrology, termed Wuku;

and works on moral conduct, regulations and ancient in

stitutions, termed Niti Sastro and Niti Projo : under the

Babat are classed chronological, and other works on mo

dern history since the establishment of the Empire of

Mataram.
   " There are in use for ordinary and popular composi

tions five different kinds of regular measured stanzas,

termed Tembany, adapted to the subject treated of, whether

                                              2f2

  436 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

  heroic, amorous, or otherwise : these are termed Asmoron

 Dono, Dandang Gula, Sinom, Durmo, and Pangkur. In

  the higher compositions, and particularly in the Kawi,
 these measures are still more varied, and in number
 upwards of twenty, twelve of which correspond in name
 with the stanzas used in the poetry of continental India.

    " In repeating these compositions, they are chanted,
 or rather drawled out in regular metre according to rules

 laid down for the long and short syllables. Dramatic re
 presentations of various kinds form the constant recrea
 tion of the higher classes of society, and the most polished

 amusement of the country : these consist of the Wiyang

 Kulit or Scenic Shadows, in which the several heroes of

 the drama, represented in a diminutive size, are made to
 perform their entrances and their exits behind a trans
 parent curtain : the subjects of these representations are
taken either from the more ancient works of the B'rata

Yud'ha or Eomo, and then denominated Wayang Purwo ;
or from the history of Panji, the most renowned hero of
Java story, and then termed Wayang Gedog. The
 Wayang Wong, in which men personify the heroes of the
B'rata Yud'ha and Eomo is also termed Wayang Purwo :
they have also the Topeng, in which men, wearing masks,
personify those immortalized in the history of Panji, and
the Wayang Klitic or Koritchil, not unlike a puppet-show
in Europe, in which diminutive wooden figures personify
the heroes of Majapahit.

    " These dramatic exhibitions are accompanied by per
formances on the Gamelan, or musical instruments of the

Javanese, of which there are several distinct sets ; the

Salindro, which accompanies the performances from the
B'rata Yud'ha and Romo, as well as the Topeng; the
Pelog which accompanies the Wayang Gedog, the Kodak
Ngokek, Chara Bali, Senenan, and others; the Java

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.                               437

nese music is peculiarly harmonious, but the gamut is

imperfect.

   " Whatever portion of astronomical science may have
in former times been communicated to Java, the people of

the present day have no pretensions to distinction on
this account ; it is true they possess the signs of the
Zodiac, and still preserve a mode of calculating the sea
sons, the principles of which must have been discovered
by a people well acquainted with the motions of the

heavenly bodies : they also possess several works on judi
cial astrology, but in this they follow only what is laid
down for them in the few pages of a book almost illegible,
and in the tradition of the country*.

  " It was my intention, in this place, to have attempted

some sketch of the interesting and peculiar features of

the Javanese character, with reference to those admirable

Iinstitutions which distinguish the constitution of society

among this people; but have already trespassed too

long upon your kindness --and there are two subjects

which have recently attracted my particular attention, and

   * " The signs of the Zodiac, as represented in the ancient MS. dis
covered at Telaga, in Cheribon, compared with the Indian Zodiac,

are as follows : the figures" being very correctly drawn, and the

names, with the explanation, annexed to each.

       Indian.                Javanese MS.
Mesha-- the Ram              Misa.
                             M'risa.
Vrisha-- the Bull            M'ri Kogo (a butterfly.)

Mithuna-- the Pair           Calicata.
Carcata -- the Crab .
Sinha--the Lion .            Singha.
Cunya-- the Virgin .
Tula -- the Balance          Canya.
Vrishchica --the Scorpion .  Tula.
Danus -- the Bow
                       ,     Privata.
                             Wanu.
Macara-- the Sea Monster     Macara (Crawfish.)
                             Cuba.
Cumbha-- the Water Jug       Mena,"
Mina --the Fish

438 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

Iwhich, on account of their novelty, am desirous of bring

ing to your notice. During my late tour through the

IEastern districts, visited the Teng'gar mountains, on

which it had been represented to me that some remains of
the former worship of Java were still to be found, and
accident threw me on the shores of Bali, while attempting

to reach Banynwangi. The simplicity of the people who
inhabit the Teng'gar mountains, and the fact of such

Iremains being still in existence on Java, is entitled to

Irecord ; and am aware that whatever information may

be able to communicate respecting Bali, however imper
fect, will be accepted.

   " To the eastward of Surabaya, and on the range of
hills connected with Gunung Dasar, and lying partly in
the district of Pasuruan and partly in that of Probolingo,
known by the name of the Teng'gar mountains, we find the
remnant of a people still following the Hindu worship,
who merit attention not only on account of their being
the depositaries of the last trace of that worship dis
covered at this day on Java, but as exhibiting a peculiar
singularity and simplicity of character.

   " These people occupy about forty villages, scattered
along the range of hills in the neighbourhood of the
Sandy Sea, and are partly under Pasuruan and partly
under Probolingo. The site of the villages, as well as the
construction of the houses is peculiar, and differs entirely
from what is elsewhere observed on Java. They are not
shaded by trees, but built on spacious open terraces,

rising one above the other, each house occupying a ter
race, and being in length from thirty to seventy, and even
eighty feet ; the door invariably in one corner, at the
opposite end of the building to that in which the fire
place is built. The building appears to be first con

 structed with the ordinary roof, but along the front is an

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  439

enclosed veranda or gallery of about eight feet broad,
with a less inclined pitch in the roof formed of bamboos,

which are so placed as to slide out either for the admis
sion of air, or to afford a channel for the smoke to escape,

there being otherwise no aperture except a small opening
of about a foot square, at one end of the building above
the fire-place : this is built of brick, and is so highly
venerated, that it is considered a sacrilege for any stranger
to pollute it by the touch. Across the upper part of the
building rafters are run across, so as to form a kind of
attic story, in which they deposit their valuables and in
struments of husbandry.

   " The head of the village takes the title of Petingi,
as in the low lands, and he is generally assisted by a

Kabayan, both elected by the people from their own

village : there are four priests, who are here termed
Dukun, having charge of the sacred records.

    " These Dukuns, who are in general intelligent men,

have no tradition when they were first established on
these hills, from whence they came, or who intrusted
them with the sacred books, to the faith contained in

which they still adhere: --these they concur in stating

were handed down to them by their fathers, their office
being hereditary, and the sole duty required of them
being to perform the puja according thereto, and again to
hand them down in safety to their children. These records
consist of three compositions written on the Lontar leaf,
describing the origin of the world, the attributes of the

Deity, and the forms of worship to be observed on dif

ferent occasions. Copies were taken on the spot, and as
the language does not essentially differ from the ordinary

IJavanese, hope at an early period to place the Society

in possession of translations.
   " In the mean time some notices of their customs, and

440 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

of the ceremonies performed at births, marriages, and
funerals, may be interesting.

   "When a woman is delivered of her first child, the
Dukun takes a leaf of the Alang-alang grass, and scrap
ing the skin of the hands of the child and of the mother,

as well as the ground, pronounces a short benediction.

   " When a marriage is agreed upon, the bride and
bridegroom being brought before the Dukun within the

house, in the first place, bow with respect towards the

south--then to the fire-place --then to the earth, and
lastly, on looking up to the upper story of the house
where the implements of husbandry are placed, perform

the same ceremony : the parties then submissively bowing
to the Dukun, he repeats a prayer commencing with the

words ' Hong I Gendogo Bromo ang'gas siwong'go nomo

siwoho sany'yang g'ni siro kang*,' &c., while the bride

washes the feet of the bridegroom. This ceremony over,
the friends and family of the parties make presents to
each of crises, buffaloes, implements of husbandry, &c. ;

in return for which the bride and bridegroom respectfully
present them with betel leaf.

   " At the marriage feast which ensues, the Dukun
repeats two Puja, which will be found in the collection --
the marriage is not, however, consummated till the fifth
day after the above ceremony--which delay is termed by

them undang mantu : -- a similar delay is, in some cases,
still observed by the Javanese in other parts of the island,
under the term undoh mantu.

   " On the death of an inhabitant of Teng'gar, the corpse
is lowered into the grave, the head being placed to the

   * " These prayers will be found at length in the Transactions of
the Society -- the word Hong, used by the Javanese at the commence
ment of their invocations to the Deity, is doubtless the Mystical Om
of the Hindus.

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.                                                         441

south, (contrary to the direction observed by the Ma
hometans,) and bamboos and planks are placed over, so
as to prevent the earth from touching it. When the

grave is closed, two posts are planted over the body, one
perpendicular from the breast, the other from the lower
part of the belly ; between these two a hollowed bamboo
is inserted in the ground, into which, during seven suc
cessive days, they daily pour a vessel of pure water,

placing beside the bamboo two dishes, also daily re

plenished with eatables. At the expiration of the seventh

day, the feast of the dead is announced, and the relations
and friends of the deceased assemble to be present at
the ceremony, and partake of the entertainment --which

is conducted as follows.

   " An image of leaves, ornamented with variegated
flowers, made to represent the human form, and of about

a cubit high, is prepared and placed in a conspicuous

place, and supported round the body by the clothes of
the deceased : the Dukun then places in front of the

garland an incense-pot with burning ashes, and a vessel

containing water, and repeats the two puja to fire and
water, the former commencing with ' Hong Kendogo Bromo
gangsi wong'go yo nomo siwoho,' &c., the latter with
 ' Hong, hong gong'go moho terto roto mejel saking hati,'
 &c., burning dupu or incense at stated periods during the
 former, and occasionally sprinkling the water over the
feast during the repetition of the latter.

    " The clothes of the deceased are then divided among
 the relatives and friends, and the garland burned;--

 another puja, commencing ' Hong ! awigno mastu nomo
 sidam, hong ! araning,' &c., is then repeated, while the re
 mains of the sacred water is sprinkled over the feast, after
 which the parties sit down to the enjoyment of invoking

    blessing from the Almighty on themselves, their houses,
a
                                                                            it,

442  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

and their lands. Nothing more occurs until the expira

tion of a thousand days, when, if the memory of the de

ceased is beloved and cherished, the ceremony and feast

is repeated--otherwise no further notice is taken.
   " On questioning them regarding the tenets of their

religion, they replied that they believed in a Dewa, who
was all-powerful, and that the term by which the Dewa
was designated was Bumi Truko Sangyang Dewoto Bator ;
that the particulars of their worship were contained in the
book called Panglawa, which they presented to me.

   " On being questioned regarding the adat against adul
tery, theft, and other crimes, their reply was unanimous
and ready--that crimes of the kind were unknown to
them, and that consequently no punishment was fixed

either by law or custom --that if a man did wrong, the

head of the village chid him for it, the reproach of which
was always sufficient punishment for a man of Teng'gar.
This account of their moral character is fully confirmed
by the Regents of the districts under whose authority
they are placed, and also by the Residents. They literally
seem to be almost without crime ; they are universally

peaceable, interfere with no one, neither quarrel among

themselves : it may be unnecessary to observe, that they
are unacquainted with the vices of gaming and opium-

smoking.
   " The aggregate population amounts to about twelve

hundred souls ; they occupy, without exception, the most

beautifully rich and romantic spots on Java; the ther

mometer is frequently as low as forty-two ; the summits
and slopes of the hills are covered with Alpine firs, and

the vegetation common to a European climate generally

prevails.

  " The language does not differ much from the Javanese
of the present day, though more gutturally pronounced :

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  443

from a comparison of about a hundred words of the ver

nacular Javanese, two only differed. They do not inter
marry or mix with the people of the low lands, priding

themselves on their independence and purity in this

respect.

   " Passing from this last vestige of the Hindu worship
now acknowledged on Java, (for the Bedui, though de

Iscendants of the fugitives of Pajajaran, scarcely merit

notice in this respect,) proceed to notice some of the

Ileading observations which made on Bali. The notices

regarding the prevalence of Hinduism on Bali, and of the
nature of the government and country have hitherto been

Iso scanty, that on such interesting ground may be par

doned for entering into some detail, without which it is
impossible to convey a just notion of the subject.

   " The Island of Bali is at present divided under seven
separate authorities, each independent of the other, and
of this heptarchy the state of Klongkong is acknowledged

to be the most ancient, its princes tracing their descent
from the princes of Java, and having once possessed

authority over the whole island. In the regalia of this

state are reported to be still preserved the Cris of Maja-

pahit, the celebrated Gong named Bentur Kadaton ; and

 although the other governments do not at the present day
admit of any interference on the part of this state, they
 still evince a marked respect and courtesy to this family
 as the Asal Rajah Bali, the stock from which they

 sprung.

    " The population is roughly estimated by the number
 of male inhabitants whose teeth have been filed, and
 whose services each prince can command--these amount
 to upwards of 200,000 ; the female population is under
 stood rather to exceed the male, and as it may be con

 sidered that only the active and able-bodied men are

444  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

 included in the above list, an average of four to a family
 may be fairly taken, giving a total population for the
 whole island exceeding 800,000 souls.

     " The mode of government, institutions, and prevailing
 habits, are represented to be the same throughout the
 island, and the following sketch of Bliling may afford a
 just notion of the whole.

     " The government is despotic, and vested in the Prince
 alone --he is assisted by a head Perbakal in all affairs

 relating to the internal administration of the country,
 under whom are immediately placed the heads of villages,
 and by a Radin Tumung'gung, who conducts the details of
 a more general nature, of commerce and foreign inter
 course ; the constitution of each village is the same, the

head or chief is termed Perbakal, and the assistant Ka

 lian Tempek. These officers are invariably selected from
 among the people of the village, the son, however, gene

rally succeeding the father, if competent to perform

 the duties : under the Perbakal, who has the desig
nation of Perbakal Rajah, are several inferior Perbakals,

for general duties and communications with the villages ;
and under the head Radin Tumung'gung a similar es
tablishment, bearing the rank and designation of Kalian
 Tempek. Among the heads of villages are many whose

families have formerly distinguished themselves in the
wars of Bali, and who are termed Gusti. The command of

the military is at present vested in a Chief of the Bra-

mana caste, who seems to receive honours and respect

next to the Prince himself.
   '' Whatever may at former periods have been the ex

tent and influence of the Hindu religion, Bali is now the
only island in the Eastern Seas in which that religion is
still prevailing as the national and established religion of
the country. That high spirit of enterprise which burst

TO THE BAT AVI AN SOCIETY.  445

the bounds of the extensive confines of India, like the

dove from the ark, rested its weary wing for a while on
Java, till, driven from thence, it sought a refuge in Bali,
where, even among the rudest and most untutored of
savages, it found an asylum. The four grand divisions of
the Hindus are here acknowledged, and the number of

Bramana (Bramins) attached to the small state of Bai
ling exceeds four hundred, of whom about one hundred

are termed Pandita.
   " Without entering into the particular tenets of the

prevailing Hinduism of Bali, which can only be treated
of with propriety and correctness after a more thorough
acquaintance with the practical duties, and some know
ledge of what is contained in their sacred records, it may
be affirmed without hazard, that Hinduism, as it exists at
the present day on Bali, is rather to be considered as the
nationalized Hinduism of Bali, in which a large portion
of the native institutions and customs are admitted, than

Hinduism as it is understood to prevail on the continent
of India. The Bramins are, however, held in high vene

ration, and on being questioned as to their doctrines, and

to what sect they belong, they answer, invariably, they

are Bramana Siwa. They have the same appearance as
Bramins wherever they are met with, and the Indian

features at once distinguish them as descended from a
foreign race. The town and small temples which we
occasionally observed have the appearance of a Mahratta

village, and the eye is struck with everything strictly
Hindu, forming a most unexpected contrast with the
present style of building and appearance of the country
on passing through Java and the other Eastern islands.

   " On inquiring into the relative rank and importance
of their deities, they invariably described Bitara Guru as

446  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

the first in rank ; then Bitara Bramah, the spirit of fire ;
Bitara Wisnu, the spirit of the waters ; Bitara Siwa, the

spirit of the winds.
   " Besides these, they describe numerous subordinate

deities to whom they pay adoration, as Dewa Gid'e Se-
gara, the divinity of the great sea ; Dewa Gid'e Dalam,
the divinity who presides over death ; Gid'e Bali Agung,

the great and popular deity of Bali; Dewa Gid'e Gu-
nung Agung, the great deity of the mountain ; which last
is the deity of most general worship.

   " Bitara Guru, though considered as the highest object
of worship, is declared to be subordinate to, and only the

mediator with the divinity, whom they designate by the

expressive and appropriate term of Sang Yang Tunggal,
The Great and only One.

   " The bodies of the deceased are invariably burnt, and
the wives and concubines of the higher classes perform

the sacrifice of Safia. A few days previous to my land

ing on Bali, nineteen young women, the wives and con
cubines of the younger Rajah, who was lately put to
death, sacrificed themselves in this manner.

   " The written language of Bali differs but little from
that of Java, but the character has a more ancient form :

Kawi is the sacred language, and understood, or pre
tended to be understood, by the Bramins ; the common
language is a mixture of the original language of the
country, and that of Java, in which the latter predominates.

   " Deferring, until another occasion, a more particular
review of the religion, institutions, and habits of this

Ipeople, will for the present confine myself to such obser

vations as occur on the contemplation of the peculiar and

extraordinary character they present, for the Balinese

differs widely, both in appearance and character, from the

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  447

Javan, and indeed from every other nation of the Archi

pelago.

   " The natives of Bali are about the middle size of

Asiatics, larger and more athletic than the Javans or
Malays, and carry an air of independence different alto
gether from the appearance of their more polished neigh
bours on the opposite coast of Java : the women in par

ticular are well proportioned, they seem to be on a perfect

equality with the men, they are not secluded from society,

and their general intercourse with strangers, even Euro

peans, is frank and cheerful: they are fairer than the
women in Java, and wearing no covering above the waist,
the natural beauty and symmetry of their shape is neither
restrained nor concealed.

   " There are two kinds of slavery existing at Bali, and
sanctioned by the laws of the country : the first is termed
Paniak, by which is understood a perfect state of slavery ;
the second Rowang, which resembles the condition of the
slave-debtor in Sumatra, and the Malay peninsula. Pa
niak is synonymous with Humba among the Malays, and
signifies a slave : the master has complete possession of

his person, and may lawfully transfer and punish with
death, according to his will and pleasure, it being con

trary to usage for the Prince to interfere. In the mode
of acquiring this absolute property, there appears to be
but little restriction. Prisoners taken in war, or families

 carried off from their countries, are daily sold and trans
ferred, the deed of transfer, called, in Bali, Padol, being

authenticated by the Tumunggung. In cases where

 an outrage occurs in a neighbouring state in alliance,

 application from the injured party, transmitted through
 the proper Chief, will cause the persons to be restored,
 and the perpetrators of the outrage are liable to the
 punishment of death; but in cases where the countries

x 448              MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

are not immediately in alliance, or when the parties

carried off from a friendly state happen to want friends

to make application in their favour, no notice is taken of
                   If a free man wishes to marry a
such occurrences.

female slave, he may obtain her by purchase, provided he

can agree with the proprietor, otherwise he may be ad

mitted to marry her on condition that he becomes a ser

vant with her : this second degree of slavery comes under

the title of Rowang. Persons convicted of offences not of

the first magnitude are generally sold for slaves by the

Prince, or taken to serve him as such. The term Rowang

is used to express the second or modified degree of
Ifslavery.
            a man happens to be indebted, and without

the means of payment (the debt exceeding ten dollars),
he may be sold by the Jaxa, and the amount for which he

is disposed of is appropriated to repay his creditor, the

surplus being divided between the Prince, the Jaxa, and

the creditor, as a recompense for their trouble ; the man

sold in this manner becomes a Rowang : this state of ser

vitude embraces every feature of slavery, excepting that

the Rowang cannot be sold, put to death, or sent out of

the country : if a Rowang wishes to marry, he may do so

on receiving his master's consent, but the woman becomes

a Rowang also. But the Rowang possesses this ad
vantage, --that he may redeem himself at any time by

paying the amount of the debt, or the money may be

advanced for him, so that his condition becomes that of a

debtor bound to serve his creditor until the amount of his

debt is discharged. In the event of the debt not amount

ing to ten dollars, the party cannot be sold, but the Jaxa

will order the goods and property of the debtor to be dis

posed of, and an obligation to be given for the payment of

the remainder, whenever his circumstances may admit. A

person indebted to another, and unable to pay, may make

                     TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.

over his wife and children to the creditor, who in such

ease will become Rowang, and on payment of his debt,

eventually, he may demand back his family.

   " In marriage, the dowry established by custom for all

persons of equal rank is forty dollars, to be paid to the
parents of the bride* ; but as it happens in many cases

that the husband is unable to pay this sum, he becomes

indebted to the parents for the amount, and this consti

tutes a third branch of slavery under the term Tatung'-

gon. The man and wife reside in the house of the bride's

father, and the man performs service in attendance on the

family, or in assisting in the cultivation of the land : when

the husband is enabled to pay the dowry, he is then at

liberty to quit the father's house, and to maintain an inde

pendent establishment, under the term of Orang Merdika,
Ifor free man.
                     the new-married man, however, behaves

to the satisfaction of his wife's family, it often happens

that after a certain time the father-in-law consents to

remit the whole or part of the dowry, according to the

circumstances of the parties.
   " The punishments for crimes are death, confinement,

and selling into slavery; neither torture to obtain con

fession, mutilation, nor even corporal punishment, are

used: theft and robbery are punished with death; and

for murder, treason, and gang-robbery, in aggravated

cases, the punishment of death is inflicted by breaking

the limbs with a hatchet : this, though it assimilates to

the manner of breaking on the wheel, does not appear to

have been adopted from Europeans, the practice being of

ancient date : the party is left to linger, sometimes for

several days, before death ensues. All executions are in

public ; other capital punishments are usually performed

" * In Bali, as well as on Java, the term used for this payment sig

nifies a purchase."

VOL. II.                                       2G

450 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

with a cris ; open robbery by daylight is punished by
death, but stealing by confinement only ; robbery by

night invariably by death. All offences are punished in

the Jaxa's Court, which consists of two Jaxas and two

Kancha or Registers, the Perbakal being the prosecutor :
the sentence of the Court must be confirmed by the
Prince, previous to execution, whose warrant, or Lontar,

is necessary in all cases. In civil cases the confirmation
of the Prince is only required when persons are sold into
slavery ; a regular table of fees, in civil as well as crimi

nal cases, is exhibited in Court, and the amount divided

between the members and the Prince. In criminal cases,

when the punishment is capital, the property is confis
cated and divided in like manner, but in other punish
ments the parties retain their property. Adultery is
punished with death to the man, and the woman becomes
a slave to the Prince. Theft is the most prevalent crime,
and adultery is uncommon, perhaps not twenty cases in a

year : the husband has the power by law to kill both
parties at the moment, if he detects them in the fact, but

not otherwise.

   " In their domestic relations, however, the conduct of

the Balinese appears unexceptionable; and there is, in
deed, a superior delicacy to what might be expected, and
the tenderness towards early age speaks strongly in favour
 of their natural disposition. The parental authority is
 exercised with such tenderness, that it is peculiarly striking
 when taken in the same view with the apparently rude
 character of the people. They seem to evince a careless
indifference to the rod of despotism which hangs over
 their head, and an air of good-humour and general satis
 faction prevails throughout. Temperate in their diet, and
 strangers to drunkenness, the ruling passion is gaming,
 from cock-fighting to an inordinate and unprincipled de

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  451

sire for conquest; such is the energy of the character,
that it must find some powerful vent--something on

which to discharge itself; and not being subject to a form

of government calculated to repress their energies, they
evidently feel no inclination to stand still in the scale of

civilization. As a nation they are certainly invincible to

any native power in the Eastern Seas ; still maintaining

a high and noble independence of character, they perhaps

exhibit, in a concentrated spot, as much of human nature,

checked by regulation, and yet not lowered or refined by

it, as is to be found in any part of the universe.

  If" we contemplate the various nations and tribes

which inhabit the Southern Peninsula of India, and the

innumerable islands composing that portion of the globe

comprehended within Polynesia and Australasia, our at

tention is arrested by the striking uniformity in habits

and language which prevails throughout, inducing the

inference either of one common origin, or of early and

very general intercourse.
   " Such customs as the singular practice of filing the

teeth and dyeing them black, noticed by the authors who

have written on Pegu, Siam, Camboja, and Tonquin, and

prevailing generally throughout the whole Malayan Ar

chipelago ; the practice of distending the perforated lobe

of the ear to an enormous size, noticed in like manner to

exist in the same parts of the Peninsula, and prevailing

throughout the Archipelago in a greater or less degree in
proportion with the extension of Islamism; the practice

of tattooing the body, noticed among the Burmans and

people of Laos, common to many tribes on Borneo, and

particularly distinguished in some of the islands in the
IfPacific Ocean.
                  it is observed that this custom, as well

as that of plucking the beard, was noticed in South

America, the question may arise in what course or direc

                                                 2g2

452  MR. RAFFLES" ADDRESS

tion the tide of population may have flowed. In a recent

publication an idea has been started, on the similarity of

the languages, that the population of the Philippines and
of the islands in the South Sea originally emigrated from

America*. It will not be required of me to go into any

description of those singular appendages to the virile

member, noticed by the writers on Pegu, Siam, and

Camboja, and adopted among many tribes of Borneo and

the Moluccas : whatever may have been the origin of this

   " * This author notices that, observing the proper names of places
about the middle of the continent of South America were very similar
to those of the Philippines, he endeavoured to procure a vocabulary of
the country, and to examine the few words of the language of Chili
which Ercilla mentions in his Araucana, and found them perfectly
conformable to the language of Tagala. ' In examining the structure

Iof the two languages,' he observes, ' we are compelled to conclude

that they flow from one and the same source, and dare to affirm that
the Indians of the Philippines are descended from the aborigines of
Chili and Peru, and that the language of these islands derives imme
diate from the parent source, those of the neighbouring islands being
dialects of this : that there are many reasons, and one in particular,
for supposing that the islands in the South Sea could not be peopled
from the westward ; viz., that in all the torrid zone the east wind
generally prevails, which being in direct opposition to the course from
Malacca and the adjacent islands, it is fair to conclude the inhabitants
of all the islands in the South Sea came from the East, sailing before

the wind; for we have seen it often happen, that the Indians from
the Palaos have arrived at the Philippines precisely under these cir
cumstances. On the contrary, we have no instance on record of any
of the Philippine Indians having been, even by accident, carried by

the winds to the islands to the Eastward.'

   " ' Here, therefore,' he concludes, ' we appear to have formed the
most probable solution of our difficulties ; that is, that the first settlers
came out of the East, we may presume from the coast of South
America, and proceeding gradually to the westward through the
Pacific Ocean, studded as we find it with islands and clusters of
islands, at no very great distance from each other, and of course of
easy access before the wind ; it follows that to whatever point in
an eastern direction we trace the Tagalic language, we may conclude
that at that point emigration must have commenced." "-- Description
of the Philippine Islands, by Mai finer de Taniga. -- Mams. Trans.

p. 30.

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  453

very singular custom, traces are to be found even on Java
of the veneration in which it once was held. The practice
of triumphing over a subdued enemy may be common to
the barbarous state in general, but the deliberate system
of man-hunting, in order to procure heads as a trophy of
manliness and military gallantry, however it may have
originated in this feeling of uncivilized nature, may be
ranked among the peculiarities of this portion of the

globe.

   " The language of the different tribes of Borneo is

ascertained to bear a strong resemblance to that of the
scattered tribes of Camboja, Champa, and Laos. The
position maintained by Mr. Marsden, that the Malayan is
a branch or dialect of the widely-extended language pre

vailing through the islands of the Archipelago, to which
it gives name, as well as those of the South Sea, appears
to be established and confirmed as our information ad

vances ; and if we except the Papuas and scattered tribes

having curled hair, we find the general description given
of the persons of the Siamese, and the ruder population

of the adjacent countries which have not admitted any
considerable admixture from the Chinese, to come very
near to the inhabitants of the Archipelago, who may, in
fact, be said to differ only in being of a smaller size, and
in as far as foreign colonization and intercourse may have

changed them.

   " To trace the sources from whence this colonization

and consequent civilization flowed, and the periods at
which it was introduced into different states, is a subject
new to the historian, and not uninteresting to the phi

losopher.

   If" we admit the natural inference, that the population

of the islands originally emigrated from the Continent,

and at the same time the probability that the country

454  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

lying between Siam and China is the immediate source

from whence such emigration originally proceeded, the
history of the Eastern Islands may, with reference to that
of Java in particular, in which a powerful Hindu govern
ment was, without doubt, early established, be divided

into five distinct periods.

   " The first division would include the period com
mencing with the earliest accounts of the population
down to the first establishment of a foreign colony in
Java, of which the written annals of the country make
mention ; the date of this is pretty accurately ascertained,
and may be fixed at about the commencement of the
sixth century of the Javanese era, or a.d. 600, when
only the period of authentic history can be considered to

commence.

   " The origin of all nations is buried in obscurity, and
unless we may succeed in obtaining new lights from Siam
or China, we shall have but little to guide us during the
early part of this division, beyond conjecture and such

general inferences as may be drawn from a similarity in
person, language, and usages, still found to prevail among
the less civilized tribes. According to the division of Sir
William Jones, the original population of the islands
were doubtless of the Tartar race, and probably from the
same stock as the Siamese. The Javans date the com

mencement of their era from the arrival on Java of Adi

Saka, the minister of Prabu Joyo Boyo, Sovereign of
Hastina, and the fifth in descent from Arjuno, the fa
vourite of Krisna, and the leading hero of the B'rata
Yud ha. This epoch corresponds with that of the intro
duction of a new faith into China and the further Penin

sula by Saka, Shaka, or Sakia, as he is differently termed,
and with the chronology of the Hindus, as explained by
Sir William Jones, in which Saca is supposed to have

         TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  455

reigned seventy-nine years subsequent to the commence

ment of the Christian era ; but whether Saka himself, or

only some of his followers assuming this name, found
their way to Java may be questionable, and it is not

impossible that the Javanese may have subsequently

adopted the era, on a more extended intercourse with the

further Peninsula*. A connexion would at any rate

appear to have existed between Java and Siam, as this
Adi Saka is not only represented to have founded the
present era of Java, but to have introduced the original

letters of the Javanese alphabet, by a modification of the

letters used in Western India and in Siam. It does not

appear that either he or his followers established them
selves in any authority, and we can trace but little with
certainty during the following five centuries ; some of the
Javanese accounts refer to the arrival of various settlers

during this period, but we find no traces either of a

government having existed, or of the establishment of

any extensive colony, until the commencement of the
Isixth century.
                 should observe in this place, that the

Javanese year corresponds pretty nearly with the Hindu

year of Salivama, and that the word Saka, in Sanscrit,

means an epoch or era, and is applied to the founder of

an era.

"The Javanese occasionally use the numerals for re

cording dates, but more generally and particularly, in

dates of importance, they adopt an hieroglyphical inven

tion termed Chondro Sangkolo, in which the different

numerals from one to ten are represented by particular

objects': this is either effected, in buildings and sculpture,
by the actual representations of these objects, or in writ

ing, by the insertion of their names, the meaning fre-

" * The present (1815) Javanese year is 1742 : that of Bali 1733."

456 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

qucntly having some allusion to the fact which the date

records. Thus the date of the destruction of Majapahit,
in the Javanese year 1400, is recorded as follows, the
order of the numerals being reversed--

Sirna--Hang --Kertaning -- Burni
Gone --gone -- is the work -- of the land

00  4                     1

" Anterior to this supposed arrival of Adi Sacha, the

two most eventful periods in the history of these coun

tries, of which tradition and history make mention, are,

first, that which includes the incursions of the far-famed race

who have been supposed to have peopled South America*,
and, according to Sir William Jones, ' imported into the

furthest parts of Asia the rites and fabulous history of

Rama;' and, secondly, that which includes the conse

quences of the invasion of India by Alexander the

Great. That the fabulous history of Rama, as well as

the exploits of Alexander, have been current in the

Malayan Archipelago from time immemorial, cannot be

questioned; and it may be remarked, that while the

Javans use the term Rama for father, the Malays univer

sally attempt to trace their descent from Alexander, or

his followers. Sumatra was long considered to have

been the Taprobane of the ancients ; and when we advert

to the single circumstance that this was said to be a

country in which the North Polar Star was not visible, or
only partially, we must still doubt the correctness of the
modern conclusion in favour of Ceylon. The Eastern

Islands furnish that peculiar kind of produce which has,

from the earliest times, been in demand by continental

   * " See a former note on the similarity between the languages of
South America and the Philippines, and the recent works of Hum
boldt, on the existence of Hindu remains still found in America, in

support of this assertion.''

              TO THE BATAV1AN SOCIETY.  457

nations ; and the same avidity with which, in modern
days, Europeans contended for the rich products of the

Moluccas, in all probability actuated, at a much earlier
period, adventurers from Western India. Traces of in

tercourse with Ethiopia may be found at this day in the

scattered tribes of the woolly-haired race peculiar to
Africa, which are to be found on the Andamans, on the

southern part of the further Peninsula, and throughout

the Archipelago ; and that the Hindus were, at one

Iperiod, an enterprising and commercial nation, may,

Jthink, be established with little difficulty, from the incon

testable proofs which at this day exist on ava, and the

traffic which still exists in native vessels, and on native

capital, between the Coromandel coast and the Malayan
Ifpeninsula.
              any country, therefore, in the Archipelago

lays claim to this distinction more than another, it is

Java ; but probably it was rather to the Eastern Islands

generally, than to one island in particular, that the ap
pellation was given. Both Ptolemy and the Arabians

would seem to have designated the Islands by one gene

ral name ; by the one, they were termed Jabadios Insula ;

by the others, Jau, or Jawa : hence, probably, the confu

sion in the Travels of Marco Polo, and the still disputed
question between Java Major and Java Minor *.

If* " we reflect upon the extent and nature of the recent volcanic

phenomena on Sumbawa, and the effects which may have been pro

duced by similar convulsions of nature, we are led to conclude that

the present appearance and form of the various islands of the Archi

pelago may be very different from what they were two or three

thousand years ago. At that period these Islands may have formed

part of the main land, or have been themselves united in one conti
nent. An authentic account of this extraordinary phenomenon, as

far as can be collected from information yet received, is submitted to

Ithe Society, and will be found in the subsequent pages of its Trans
actions.     can vouch for the correctness of the statements, and the

raw materials may be found useful in the hand of the natural

historian."

458  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

   " The second division would include the period between
this first regular establishment from Western India, and
the decline and fall of the first Eastern empire of Java,
which may be fixed, with tolerable accuracy, at about the

Javanese year 1000, or a.d. 1073.
   " During this period, by far the most eventful in the

history of Java, we shall find colonies of foreigners esta
blishing themselves not only on Java, but on various
other islands of the Archipelago ; that the arts, particu
larly those of architecture and sculpture, flourished in a
superior degree; and that the language, literature, and
institutions of the continent of India were transferred, in

various directions, through the Oriental Islands. It was

during this period that the principal temples, of which
the ruins now exist on Java, were built ; and besides the

concurring testimonies of tradition, and the written com
positions of the country, the numerous inscriptions and
dates on stone and copper, the characters of which we are

now able to decipher, as well as the ancient coins, would
lend essential aid in establishing a correct chronology.
On the one hand, we should have to direct our inquiries
to the history of the various continental nations from

whence these foreigners might have proceeded ; and, on
the other, to the nature and extent of the establishments,

intercourse, and civilization introduced by them into the

different islands.
    " This period will commence from the arrival of Awap,

the reputed son of Balia Atcha, Sovereign of Kudjirat,
who came in search of a celebrated country described in
the writings of Saka, and under the name of Sewelo Cholo

established the first regular monarchy of which the Java

nese annals make mention ; and include the adventures

of the celebrated Panji, the pride and admiration of suc
ceeding ages. Our attention would also be directed in a

       TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  459

particular manner to the intercourse between Java and

the other Islands, and the nature and extent of the

foreign establishments formed by Java. Tradition and

the popular romances of the country represent not only

the kingdoms of Goa and Luhu on Celebes, but even the

kingdom of Menagkabu, on Sumatra, to have been esta
blished about the conclusion of this period by Princes

from Java.
   " The third division would include the period from the

above date, till the final overthrow of the second Eastern

Empire, in the Javanese year 1400. Some idea may be

formed of the power and opulence of this second empire

established at Majapahit, from the extensive ruins of that
Icity still extant : these took an opportunity of visiting
I Iduring my late tour ; and believe am within the mark,
Iwhen
       represent the walls to have enclosed a space of

upwards of twenty miles in circumference.
   " Within this period will be included the establishment

of the Western Empire at Pajajaran ; the subsequent

division of the Island under the Princes of Majapahit and

Pajajaran; the eventual supremacy of Majapahit; and

the final overthrow of the government and ancient insti

tutions of the country, by the general establishment of

the Mahomedan faith.

  " It was during this period that Java may be said to

have risen to the highest pitch of her civilization yet

known, and to have commanded a more extensive inter

course throughout the Archipelago, than at any former

period. Colonies from Java were successively planted on
Sumatra, the Malayan peninsula, Borneo, and Bali, the

Princes of which countries still trace their descent from

the house of Majapahit ; and that adventurers from

Western India, from Siam, from Champa, from China,

and from Japan, frequented Java in the greatest number;

400 MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

but the object of first importance will be to trace the in

troduction, progress, and final establishment of the Ma-

homedan faith in the various countries where it now is

acknowledged as the established religion ; and particu
larly on Java, where we find that, notwithstanding at

tempts to make proselytes were made as early as the
commencement of the twelfth century, such was the

attachment of the people to their ancient faith and insti

tutions, that they did not effectually succeed till the
latter end of the fifteenth century of the Christian era.

   " The fourth division would commence with the esta

blishment of the Mahomedan government on Java, and

might be brought down to the establishment of the

Dutch in the Eastern Seas, say a.d. 1600; and a fifth,

and by no means uninteresting period, might include the

history of the European establishments, down to the con
quests by the British arms in 1811.

   " The further prosecution of this extensive inquiry

would lead me beyond the limits at present prescribed ;

Iand must, therefore, conclude with drawing your atten

tion to the striking similarity between the early state of
Greece, and that of the Malayan Islands : change but

the names, and the words of Mitford's Introduction to

his History of Greece will be found equally applicable to

this more extensive Archipelago.      in its early days, was
                                      and piratical warfare.
   " ' Thus,' he observes, ' Greece,
in a state of perpetual marauding

Cattle, as the great means of subsistence, were first the

great objects of plunder ; then, as the inhabitants of some

parts by degrees settled to agriculture, men, women, and

children were sought for as slaves. But Greece had

nothing more peculiar than its adjacent sea, where small

islands were so thickly scattered, that their inhabitants,

and in some measure those of the shores of the surround

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  461

ing continents also, were mariners by necessity ; water-

expeditions, therefore, were soon found most commodious
for carrying off spoil. The Greeks, moreover, in their
more barbarous state, became acquainted with the pre
cious metals ; for the Phoenicians, whose industry, inge
nuity, and adventurous spirit of commerce, led them early
to explore the further shores of the Mediterranean, and
even to risk the dangers of the ocean beyond, discovered
mines of gold and silver in some of the Islands of the

yEgean, and on its northern coast they formed establish
ments in several of the islands ; and Thasus, which lay
convenient for communication with the most productive
mines, became the seat of their principal factory. Thus
was offered the most powerful incentive to piracy, in a sea
whose innumerable islands and ports afforded singular
opportunity for the practice. Perhaps the conduct of
the Phoenicians towards the uncivilized nations, among
whom the desire of gain led them, was not always the

most upright or humane ; hostilities would naturally
ensue, and hence might first arise the estimation of
piracy, which long prevailed among the Greeks as an

honourable practice.'

   " Java has long been advanced beyond that state in

which piracy and robbery are held to be honourable in
the eyes of men ; but the picture will be found pretty
correct of those Islands strictly denominated Malayan.

   " The superior and extraordinary fertility of the soil
may serve to account for the extensive population of Java,
compared with that of the other islands ; and when to
the peaceable and domestic habits of an agricultural life

are added the facilities for invasion along an extensive
line of coast, accessible in every direction, it will not be
surprising that she should have fallen an easy prey to
the first invader. She appears to have lost by these

402     MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

invasions much of that martial spirit and adventurous

enterprise which distinguishes the population of the other

Isles ; but, at the same time, to have retained not only

the primitive simplicity of her own peculiar usages, but

all the virtues and advantages of the more enlightened

institutions which have been introduced at different

periods from a foreign source. At all events, when we

consider that her population cannot be less than four

millions, and when we witness the character and litera

ture of the people as it is even now exhibited, we must

admit that Java had attained a far higher degree of civili

zation than any other nation in the southern hemisphere.

   " You will, however, expect from me some notice re

garding Japan, 'that celebrated and imperial Island,'
which, to use the words of Sir William Jones, bears ' a pre

eminence among Eastern kingdoms, analogous to that of

Britain among the nations of the West ;' and however

slender may have been the information procured, such as

I Iit is venture to submit it to you, nearly as received it

from the verbal communications of Dr. Ainslie.

  "It may be satisfactory and gratifying, in the first

place, to observe that every information which has been

obtained tends to confirm the accuracy, the ability, and
the impartiality of Krempfer, whose account of Japan is,

perhaps, one of the best books of the kind that ever was

written, considering the circumstances under which he was
Isent.
        am assured that there is not a misrepresentation

throughout. He was a man of that minute accuracy, and

that habitude of talent, which saw everything as it stood,

and not through the mist or medium of any preconcep
tion. The Japanese observe of him, that he is in history

' the very apostle of their faith,' and from whose works

alone they know even their own country. Their first
inquiry was for a copy of Ksempfer ; and, endeavouring to

TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.  4(53

evince the estimation in which this author was held by
them, their observation was literally that ' he had drawn
out their heart from them, and laid it palpitating before
us, with all the movements of their government, and the
actions of their men.'

   " Referring you, therefore, to the works of Kaempfer
for an account of their history, institutions and acquire

ments, as genuine data on which this interesting people

Imay be appreciated, need only offer a few notices on the

character which they appeared to Dr. Ainslie to display,
during a residence of four months, and as far as he had
the opportunity of judging.

   " They are represented to be a nervous, vigorous peo

ple, whose bodily and mental powers assimilate much
nearer to those of Europe, than what is attributed to
Asiatics in general. Their features are masculine, and
perfectly European, with the exception of the small
lengthened Tartar eye, which almost universally prevails,
and is the only feature of resemblance between them and
the Chinese. The complexion is perfectly fair, and indeed
blooming, the women of the higher classes being equally
fair with Europeans, and having the bloom of health

more generally prevalent among them than is usually
found in Europe.

   " For a people who have had very few, if any, external

aids, the Japanese cannot but rank high in the scale of
civilization. The traits of a vigorous mind are displayed
in the sciences, and particularly in metaphysics and judi
cial astrology. The arts speak for themselves, and are

deservedly acknowledged to be in a much higher degree
of perfection than among the Chinese, with whom they
are, by Europeans, so frequently confounded. The lat

ter have been stationary, at least, as long as we have

known them ; but the slightest impulse seems sufficient

464  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

to give a determination to the Japanese character, which
would progressively improve, until it attained the same
height of civilization with the European. Nothing, indeed,
is so offensive to the feelings of a Japanese, as to be com
pared, in any one respect, with the Chinese ; and the only
occasion on which Dr. Ainslie saw the habitual politeness
of a Japanese ever surprised into a burst of passion, was
upon a similitude of the two nations being unguardedly
made, when he laid his hand on his sword.

   " The people are said to have a strong inclination to
foreign intercourse, notwithstanding the political institu
tions to the contrary ; and perhaps the energy which
characterizes the Japanese character cannot be better

elucidated than in that extraordinary decision which ex
cluded the world from their shores, and confined them

selves within their own limits : a people who had before
served as mercenaries throughout all Polynesia, and who

traded with all nations --themselves adventurous navi

gators.

   " There is by no means that uniformity among them
which is observed in China, where the impression of the
government may be said to have broken down all indivi
duality, and left one Chinese the counterpart of another.
Unlike the Chinese, the women here are by no means

secluded : they have a society among themselves, as the
ladies of Europe. During the residence of Dr. Ainslie,

frequent invitations and entertainments were given : on

these occasions, and at one in particular, a lady from the
court of Jeddo is represented to have done the honours
of the table with an ease, elegance, and address that would
have graced a Parisian. The usual dress of a Japanese
woman of middle rank costs, perhaps, as much as would
supply the wardrobe of an European lady of the same

rank for twenty years.

         TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.      465

" The Japanese, with an apparent coldness like the

stillness of the Spanish character, and derived nearly from
the same causes, -- that system of espionage, and that
principle of disunion, dictated by the principles of both
governments, -- are represented to be eager of novelty and

warm in their attachments ; open to strangers ; and, bating

the restrictions of their political institutions, a people

who seem inclined to throw themselves into the hands of

any nation of superior intelligence : they have, at the

same time, a great contempt and disregard for everything

below their own standard of morals and habits, as instanced

in the case of the Chinese.
   " This' may appear to be contradicted by the mis

sion from Russia in 1814, under Count Kreusenstern ;

but the circumstances under which that mission was placed

should be considered. From the moment of their arrival

they were under the influence of an exclusive factory, who

continued to rain upon them every possible ignominy

which can be supposed to have flowed from the despotism

of Japan, through the medium of an interested and avari

cious factor, who dreaded competition, or the publication

of his secret. The warehouse in which the Russian mis

sion had been lodged, was pointed out to Dr. Ainslie,
who observes, that ' as the rats were let out, the Count

and his suite were let in, where they remained for six long
months, with scarce room to turn ; the mark of obloquy to

the Japanese, and the laughing-stock to the European
factory. So lively, indeed, was the impression of the

occurrence, that the chief Japanese officer asked the

English commissioner if he, too, would condescend to play

the part of the Russian count ; the officer answering to

Ihis own question, ' No, trust not.'

   "The mistaken idea of their illiberality in religious

matters, seems to have been fully proved; and the

vol. h.                            2H

4G6  MR. RAFFLES' ADDRESS

late mission experienced it in a degree hardly credible,

and little expected by themselves, from the representations

previously made to them. The story of the annual test

of trampling on the crucifix at Nangasaki and the other

important cities is a story derided by the Japanese priest

hood. On visiting the great temple on the hills of Nan

gasaki, the English commissioner was received with

marked regard and respect by the venerable patriarch of

the northern provinces, eighty years of age, who enter

tained him most sumptuously. On shewing him round

the courts of the temple, one of the English officers pre
sent heedlessly exclaimed in surprise, 'Jams Christus.'

The patriarch turned half round, with a placid smile,

bowed significantly, expressive of 'We know you are

Jasus Christus well; don't obtrude him upon us in our

temples, and we remain friends ;' and so with a hearty

shake of the hands these two opposites parted. This

leave-taking reminded Dr. Ainslie very forcibly of the

story Dr. Moore tells so well of the Duke of Hamilton

and himself taking leave of the Pope. The Pope, who

'Ihad conceived a regard for the young Duke, on the
latter making his conge, said,  know you laugh at

the benediction of a Pope ; but the blessings of an old

man can do you no harm ;' and laid his hand on his head,

and blessed him.
   " The massacre of Samebarra is, by the Japanese, attri

buted to European intrigue ; and even Kseempfer notices

that the European ships of war formed the practical

breach through which the Japanese entered, and perpe

trated that massacre, to which it would appear that they

had been originally prompted by others.

   "That the negociations from England, on a former

occasion, should not have been more successful than the

late attempt from Russia, may easily be accounted for,

                             TO THE BATAVIAN SOCIETY.

when we reflect on the possibility of the favourite factor
having said to them, 'forty years ago your throne has
been all but overturned by the intrigue of these heretics ;
this embassy comes from the King who has married the
daughter of the head of that caste, and from whom you can
expect nothing less than an irruption still more fatal
to your tranquillity. Such an argument, pushed by a
narrow-minded and interested factor, could not but carry
weight with the Japanese, accustomed to respect, and
to place all confidence in their western visitors.

   " They are not averse to the indulgence of social excess,

and on these occasions give a latitude to their speech,
which one would hardly suppose they dared to do in

Japan.

   " It is an extraordinary fact, notwithstanding the deter

mination of the empire not to enter into foreign commerce,
that for seven years past, since the visitation of Captain
Pellew, the English language has, by an edict from the
Emperor, been cultivated with considerable success by the
younger members of the College of Interpreters; they
were, indeed, anxious in their inquiries after English
books.

    "While the commissioner was at Nangasaki, there
arrived a large detachment of officers of rank, who had

been out nearly four years, and not yet completed one-
fourth of a survey on which they were engaged. These
officers were attended by a numerous and splendid retinue,
and were employed in making a practical survey of every
foot of the empire and the dependant isles. The survey
 appeared to be conducted on a scientific principle, to be
most minute and accurate in its execution, and to have for

 its object a regular geographical and statistical survey of
 the country.

    " In a word, the opinion of Dr. Ainslie is, that the

468 MK. RAFFLES' ADDRESS.
Japanese are a people with whom the European world

might hold intercourse without compromise of character ;
for the Japanese themselves are wonderfully inquisitive in
all points of science, and possess a mind curious and
anxious to receive information, without inquiring from
what quarter it comes.

   " In the same spirit let us hope that now, when

                        ' That spell upon the minds of men
                        Breaks, never to unite again' --

no withering policy may blast the fair fruits of that spirit
of research which has gone forth from this Hall ; nor con
tinue, under any circumstances, to shut out one-half of
the world from the intelligence which the other half may

possess."

                                            THE END.

                         JUN 3 1918

                                                   LONDON:
                             William Clowis and Sons. Stamford Street


