



MEMOIRS 



V 



OF 



THE LIFE 



OF 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART, 

LL.D. F.R.8. 

FOREIGN ASSOCIATE OF THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE, kc 



BY 



HIS BROTHER, 



JOHN DAVY, M.D. F.R.S. &amp;c. 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 

VOL. I. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR 

LONGMAN, REES, ORME^ BROWN, GREEN, &amp; LONGMAN, 

PATERNOSTER-ROW. 
1836. 



4 '^4, 



" vita enim inortuonim in memoria Tivanun cat pouU." — Cio* KiiUp. it. 

" Ttke afleclJong are (heir own juatiGcatioD. The Light of Lore ia oui 

Hearts ii a )atisractoi7 evidence t^at there i9 a body of worth in tlie mind: 
of our friends or kindreJi wheoee that Light has proceeded." 

WoKDSWOKTH, EUOI/ UpOTt £)lilqiAt. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



fll 



X^His work was written in Malta, and was 
completed in the summer of 1832. The delay 
that has taken place in its publication, owing 
to my protracted " foreign service" on the 
Medical Staff of the Army, though much 
against my wishes, has not been without some 
advantage, as it has enabled me to reply to 
certain observations which I never could have 
anticipated, and to give some additional in- 
formation. 



Fort Pitt, Chatfiam, 
Dec. 24. 1835. 



A 2 



PREFACE. 



The Life of Sir Humphry Davy, by Dr. Paris, has 
been before the public a considerable time. In the 
preface. Dr. Paris expresses much delicacy of feeling 
about undertaking it, which I am very much at a loss 
to reconcile with his conduct. That I may not appear 
unjust to him, it is necessary to quote the passage. 
After noticing some biographical sketches, which he 
contributed to the " Spectator," soon after my bro- 
ther's death, he proceeds to remark, — "I was soon 
recognised as the writer of these sketches ; and the 
leading publishers of the day urged me to undertake 
a more extended work. To these solicitations I re- 
turned a direct reftisal; I even declined entering 
upon any conversation on the subject, feeling that the 
wishes of Lady Davy, at that time on the Continent, 
ought, in the very first instance, to be consulted on 
the subject. Had not the common courtesy of so- 
ciety required such a mark of attention, the wish ex- 
pressed by Sir Humphry in his will would have 
rendered it an imperative duty. On her arrival in 
London, in consequence of a letter she addressed to 
Mr. Murray, I requested an interview with her Lady- 
ship, from whom I received not only an unqualified 



vi PREFACE. 

permission to become the biographer of her illustrious 
husband, but also the several documents which are 
published with acknowledgments in these memoirs. 
I still felt that Dr. Davy might desire to accomplish 
the task of recording the scientific services of his dis- 
tinguished brother; and had that been the case, I 
should, most undoubtedly, have retired without the 
least hesitation or reluctance, — but I was assured by 
those who were best calculated to form an opinion 
upon this point, for he was himself absent front Eng- 
landf that motives of delicacy, which it was easy to 
appreciate, would at once lead him to decline an un- 
dertaking embarrassed with so many personal consi- 
derations." 

Now, to justify what I have said above respecting 
Dr. Paris's expressions not according with his con- 
duct, it is necessary for me to state, — first, that I rvas 
in England a fortnight after Lady Davy ; that I re- 
mained in England from November, 18^ till the end 
of March ; that I was a great part of that time in 
London, engaged in editing my brother's last work, 
which, with all his other MSS., he had bequeathed to 
me ; that Dr. Paris knew I was in England, and met 
me in society, and yet never made any communication 
to me relative to the work which he was then contem- 
plating. Secondly, I consider it necessary to state 
that before I came to England no friends of mine 
had written to me, or had heaid from me respecting 
my intentions ; and that no one at that time could 
with any propriety have formed an idea whether I 



PREFACE. Vll 

should consider it advisable or not to undertake my* 
self the biography of my brother. Indeed, for a con- 
siderable time, I was undecided in regard to it. My 
determination was not formed till after I had ex- 
amined the documents in my possession, — the va- 
rious MS. note-books and journals which my brother 
had left me. As soon as I had made this examin- 
ation, and perceived the value of these papers, I no 
longer hesitated, — I felt it an imperative duty to 
undertake the task; and I accordingly announced 
this my intention to many of my friends, long before 
the publication of Dr. Paris's work. 

The nature of Dr. Paris's work confirmed me in 
my design. There appeared to be much in it that 
was objectionable, many things which were incor- 
rect, and that the general tone and tendency of it 
were to lower the character of my brother in public 
estimation ; not, indeed, as a man of science, and an 
original inquirer, but as a man and a philosopher ; 
and to deliver his name to posterity with a sullied re- 
putation, charged with faults which he would have in- 
dignantly repelled if living, and which it has become 
my duty, believing the charges to be unfounded, 
not to allow to pass unreftited, now he is no more. 

In writing the Life of my brother, which I now 
offer to the public, from the commencement to the 
termination of my labour I have kept in view one 
great object, — the developement of his character as 
fully as possible, trusting that his best vindication 
from calumny will thus be ensured ; and believing. 



Vlll PREFACE. 

with his excellent and attached friend Mr. Poole, 
that *^ the more his whole beUig is known, the more 
the man will be esteemed and loved, the more the 
philosopher thanked and venerated." • 

Malta, August 14. 1832. 

• From a letter to the author. 



CONTENTS 

OF 

THE FIRST VOLUME. 



CHAPTER I. 

Sir Humphry Davy's Parentage. — State of Penzance, his native 
Town, in the Middle of the last Century. — Particulars of his 
Infancy and early Youth, and of his School Education. — Studies 
after leaving School. — Extracts from his earliest Note-books. 
— Portions of his early Poetry. — The Course of his Studies 
further illustrated by Extracts. — Anecdotes of this Period of 
his Life, relating to his Habits, Feelings, and Pursuits. — His 
Application to Chemistry, first entered on, as a Branch of 
Medical Studies. — Rapid Advance. — Correspondence with Dr. 
Beddoes on the Theory of Heat and Light. — Quits Penzance 
for Clifton, to become Superintendent of the Pneumatic Insti- 
tution. ----- Page 1 

CHAPTER II. 

Advantages of his Situation at Clifton. — Verses addressed to 
Mrs. Beddoes, — to her Infant Daughter. — Letter to his 
Mother on quitting Home. — His Essay on Heat and Light. — - 
Discovery of Silex in the Epidermis of Grasses. — Pursuits, 
Chemical and Literary, at this Period of his Life. — His Re- 
searches, Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly concerning Ni- 
trous Oxide and its Respiration. — Letters to his Family. — 
Revisits Home. — Lines on the Occasion. — Extracts from his 
Note-books, showing his varied Pursuits, and Modes of Senti- 
ment and Thought. — Fragments of a Poem. — Happy Life and 
Aspirations. — Royal Institution of Great Britain. — Letter to 
his Mother on an offered Appointment in it, which he ac- 
cepts. - . . . • - 60 
VOL. I. a 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER III. 



*Hi8 Reception as a Lecturer at the Royal Institution. — Slanderous 
Charges against him answered. — Proofs of his Regard for old 
FViendships. — Extracts expressing the Opinions of some old 
I^ends respecting him.— -Circumstances fevouring his Success 
in lectmring. — Specimens of his Lectures. — His Manner of 
preparing and delivering them. - - Page ] 34 

CHAPTER IV. 

Laboratory of the Royal Institution. — His Manner of experiment- 
ing. — His Notice of Dr. Wollaston. — His Way of living. — 
Angling Relaxation. — Extract from Salmonia. — Recollections 
of him. — Visits his Friends in Cornwall. — Excursion into 
Wales. — Notice of other Excursions. — Anecdote of him, given 
by Lady Brownrigg. — Religious Sentiments. — Extracts from 
his Journal of a Tour in Ireland. — Parts of Letters of his re- 
lating to Ireland. — Extracts from his unfinished Sketches of 
the Geology and Mineralogy of Cornwall. — Specimens of his 
Poetry. - - - - - - 253 



CHAPTER V. 

Sketch of his scientific Pursuits between 1800 and 1807. — Part 
of a Lecture of his showing the Progress of Electrical Dis- 
covery. — Extract from his last Bakerian Lecture on the same 
Subject, in vindication of his Rights. — Notice of his first Ba- 
kerian Lecture. - - - . 306 

CHAPTER VI. 

Sketch of his scientific Pursuits continued. — Experiments on 
astringent VegetaUes and Tanning. — His Attention to Agri- 
culture, and Agricultural Researches. — Is appointed Professor 
to the Board of Agriculture. — Notice of his Elements of Agri- 
cultural Chemistry. — His Geological Views in Connection with 
£lectro«Chemistry.-^ Other scientific Labours. — Extracts fi-om 
his Note-books of this Perknly in Verse and i^ose, on various 
Subjecte. - - - • - 335 



CONTENTS. XI 



CHAPTER VIL 

HU Electro-chemical Discoveries. —Decomposition of the fixed 
Alkalies.— Dangerous Illness. — Extract of a Lecture of the 
Rev. Dr. Dibdin, expressive of the Feeling then prevaSing 
towards him. — Recovery. — Verses written after Recovery 
from a dangerous Illness. — Continuation of his scientific La- 
bours. — Decomposition of the Alkaline Earths. — Experiments 
on the other Earths. — Speculations on the Nature of Volcanoes. 
— Researches on Ammonia. — Speculations concerning the Ele- 
ments of Bodies. — Decomposition of Boracic Acid. — Re- 
searches on Muriatic and Oxymuriatic Acid. — Conclusion that 
Oxjnnuriatic Acid Gas had never been decompounded. — Theory 
of Chlorine. — Consequences in relation to Chemical Science 
and the Progress of Discovery. — Researches on Fluoric Acid. 

— Discovery of EuchlorinCi telluretted Hydrc^en, and of a new 
Compound of Phosphorus and Hydrogen. - Page 378 

CHAPTER VIII. 

Idea of resuming the Medical Profession. — Lectures at the Dublin 
Society. — Letters to his Mother and Brother His Marriage. 

— His " Elements of Chemical Philosophy." — The Atomic 
Theory. — His Estimation of Mr. Dalton. — Notice of the great 
Voltaic Battery of the Rojsl Institution. — Some other Extracts. 
— His Views on Chemical Nomenclature. — Continues his scien- 
tific Pursuits. — Is wounded in the Eye in experimenting on a 
new Detonating Compound of Chlorine and Azote. — Obtains 
Permission from the French Government to proceed through 
France into Italy. - - - - 425 

CHAPTER IX. 

l^ol^ces of his first Continental Tour. — Researches on Iodine at 
Paris. — Sketches of distinguished Frenchmen, Guyton de Mor- 
reau, Vauquelin, Cuvier, De Humboldt, Gay Lussac, BerthoUet, 
La Place. — ^Verses on " Fontainebleau," on " Mont Blanc," " The 
Banks of the Rhone," « The Mediterranean Pine," « The Ca- 
nigou," "Vaucluse," «* Carrara." — Scientific Researches on his 
Journey. — Verses addressed to Canova ; on *&lt; The Sybil's Tem- 
ple ;" on " A disUnt View of Paestum.'* — Mention of Volta. — 



XU CONTENTS. 

Extract from his Journal. — Description of Part of the Tyrol. — 
Occupations at Rome in the Winter of 1814s — Experiments on 
the Colours of the Ancients. — A Misstatement respecting him 
pointed out relative to a Controversy with M. Gay Lussac — Ex- 
tracts from his Journal. — Anecdote of him furnished by Sir 
[. Walter Scott. — His Return to England. - - Page 462 



MEMOIRS 



OF 



THE LIFE 



OF 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 



CHAPTER I. 

BIB HVMPHBT DAVy's PABENTAOE.-— STATE OF PENZANCE^ HIS NATIVE 

TOWK^ tS THE MIDDLE OF THE LAST CENTUBT. PABTICULABS OF HIS 

INFANCY AND EARLY YOUTH^ AND OF HIS SCHOOL EDUCATION. STU- 
DIES AFTER LEAYINO SCHOOL. — EXTRACTS FROM HIS EARLIEST NOT£« 
BOOKS. PORTIONS OF HIS EARLY POETRY. THE COURSE OF HIS STU- 
DIES FURTHER ILLUSTRATED BY EXTRACTS. ANECDOTES OF THIS 

PERIOD OF HIS UFE^ RELATING TO HIS HABITS^ FEELINGS^ AND PUB- 
SUITS. HIS APPLICATION TO CHEMISTBY^ FIBST ENTERED ON^ AS A 

BBANOH OF MEDICAL STUDIES. BAPID ADVANCE. CORRESPONDENCE 

WITH DR. BEDDOES ON THE THEOBY OF HEAT AND LIGHT. QUITS 

PENZANCE FOB CLIFTON^ TO BECOME SUPBBINTENDENT OF THE PNEUMATIC INSTITUTION. 

It is with no ordinary feeling of pleasure, no less 
than from a strong sense of duty, that I engage in 
this work of a brother^s biography : — Of pleasure, 
considering the circumstances of his life ; how, from 
a comparatively humble origin, solely by his own 
exertions and abilities, he raised himself to distinc- 
tion, and acquired a name and reputation which, 
from its connection with science, can hardly be less 
permanent than science itself:-^ Of duty, from 

VOL. I. B 



2 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

reflecting on the misrepresentations to which his fair 
fame has been exposed since his death, and which, 
if not corrected, must necessarily be permanently 
injurious to his character; — to the "good name*' 
which is " the proper inheritance of the deceased *;" 
tending to hand him down to posterity not as he was, 
but as he was imagined to be by the envious and 
malevolent. 

Before I enter on his e^rly life, it is necessary to 
give some account of his parentage. His father's 
family, for more than 200 years, had resided, and 
had possessions, in the parish of Ludgvan, in the 
Mount's Bay, in Cornwall| ; how much longer is 
not known. In the parish register their births and 
deaths are entered as far back as 1588, and the 
register itself does not extend beyond 1566. During 
the whole of this period the family belonged to the 
middle class ; and on their tombstones in the parish 
churchyard, the term yeoman is used occasionally to 
designate them, ocasionally that of gentleman.^ 

* Bacon. 

t There is amongst some family papers a letter from my father's 
grandfather^ Mr. Rohert Davy^ to the Duke of Bolton's steward^ dated 
14th July^ 1737&gt; respecting a leasehold property which he says '^ had 
been held some hundreds of years by the family^ ' who were some of 
the oldest and largest tenants in the manor of Ludgvan Lease." 

% The two following inscriptions^ which may be interesting to some 
readers^ as specimens of the old tombstone style of writing, are on 
tablets in the church of Ludgran^ over the pew which belonged to the 
family : — 

" Catherine^ the wife of Nicholas Davy, yeoman, was buried the 
18th day of July, 1635. 

Death shall not make her memory to rot. 

Her virtues were too great to be forgott. 

Earth hath her earth, which must yeild it againe ; 

Heaven hath her sold, where it must there remaine ; 

The world her worth, to blazon forth her fame ; 

The poor relieved do honor still her name. 

Earth, heaven, world, poor, do her immortalize, 

Who dying lives, and living never dies." 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. S 

The origin of the family is far from certain. My 
brother, who at one time made some inquiries 
respecting it, was of opinion that it came from Nor- 
folk, and he thought it probable that the first 
mem'ber of the family had settled in Cornwall as 
steward to the Duke of Bolton, who had large 
possessions in the Mount's Bay. This belief was 
founded in part on what he had learned when a boy j 
that a remote ancestor, in affluent circumstances, a 
ste^vard of the duke, had once entertained him on a 
visit which he had made to his Cornish estates; 
and partly on the circumstance of an old family seal 
bearing the arms which belong to the Davys of 
Norfolk. Be this as it may, there was in the family 
a tradition, that they were originally of Norman 
extraction, and had come over with William. This is 
alluded to by my brother, in the " Consolations in 
Travel." In the 5th dialogue, evidently speaking 
of himself, he says, " My parentage was humble, 
yet I can believe in a traditional history of my 
paternal grandmother, that the origin of our family 



c&lt; 



In memory of A. D.^ wife of R. D.^ of this parish^ gent.^ who 
departed this life the 2d day of December^ in the 45th year of her age. 
Anno Domini I7O6. 

Inhumed in the obscure grave doth lie 

A just idea of true piety : 

In words discreet^ sweet was her conversation ; 

A loyall wife, divine in contemplation ; 

Unto her friends^ her neighbours always kind, 

The poor^ alas ! her equal cannot find. 

Opprest with grief, fountaynes of tears they shed. 

And dayly cry, our Uberal friend is dead. 

Desist your mourning, — tho' from hence she's gone^ 

A glorious crowne by dying she hath wonne. 

Let virtue be your guide that her survive. 

And to surmount her heavenly actions strive. 

Whose constant actions, sole delight and care. 

Pious discourse, ejaculations rare." 

B 2 



4 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

was from an old Norman stock." His mother's 
family was that of the Milletts. According to 
tradition it too was of Norman extraction, and came 
over with the Conqueror ; and according to another 
tradition, at a much later period there were three 
brothers, one of whom settled in Buckinghamshire, 
one in Middlesex, and the other in Cornwall. The 
records or written notices of this Cornish branch, to 
which my mother belonged, do not extend back further 
than the time of Elizabeth. It is stated by Gilbert, 
in his historical survey of Cornwall, that William 
Millett, of Marazion, was sheriff of the county in 
the reign of the queen just mentioned, namely, in 
1556; and that Robert Millett, a naval oflScer, 
perished with Sir Cloudesley Shovel, on the 22d 
October 1707&gt; when shipwrecked on the rocks of 
Scilly ; and the belief of the family is, that he was 
the admiral's secretary. In regard to rank, this 
family may be considered as pretty much on a par 
with the preceding. It multiplied more, and was 
more divided. There are now in the west of Corn- 
wall three or four different branches, who have 
nearly forgotten their common origin. 

This general account may suffice for the paternal 
and maternal families of my brother. As to his 
parents, it may be necessary to enter into some 
details more minute, both as relating to the circum- 
stances which might have had an influence on the 
formation of his character in early life, and also 
because Dr. Paris has fallen into mistakes respecting 
them. 

The father of my brother was Robert Davy, the 
eldest son of Edmund and Grace Davy. The former 
was a respectable builder. The maiden name of our 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 5 

grandmother was Adams, and her mother was a 
Eustick, one of the oldest families in Cornwall. She 
had, on her marriage, a dowry of 1500/., which, a 
century ago, in that remote part of England, was 
considered a handsome fortune. I shall have oc- 
casion to revert to her again in relating the circum- 
stances of my brother's infancy and boyish days, as 
the peculiarities of her mind could not fail to have 
influenced his. 

Our father was brought up in the house of Mr. 
Robert Davy, the contemporary, neighbour and in- 
timate friend of the able historian of Cornwall, the 
Rev. Dr. Borlase, the Vicar of Ludgvan. This our 
great uncle had a landed property, which then yielded 
an income of six or seven hundred pounds a year. 
He had no children, and as it was his intention to 
have made his favourite nephew his heir, he was 
averse from his following any business. But having 
a great fondness for carving in wood, he prevailed 
against his uncle's wishes, and was sent to London 
to be taught this ornamental art ; and it is said 
that he acquired such proficiency in it, had such 
dexterity in all its manipulations, and such good 
taste, that had this art, then expiring, received the 
encouragement of some other of the fine arts, he 
Would have risen to eminence in it, and have en- 
riched his family. In regard to expectations of 
wealth from his uncle, he was also doomed to dis- 
appointment. Mr. Robert Davy died suddenly in 
1774. A rough draught of a will was found in 
favour of my father, but no attested one could be 
discovered. In consequence, the principal part of 
the property, which was freehold, came into the 
possession of a niece next in succession in the direct 

B 3 



6 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

line of descent. The death of his uncle happened 
about two years before my father's marriage. This 
took place in 1776* For some years after his mar- 
riage he resided at Penzance, and though he did not 
give up entirely the business to which he was bred, 
he was more occupied in farming a small copyhold 
property called Varfell, which belonged to him, in 
the parish of Ludgvan, where he built a house, and 
ultimately lived entirely. He died in 1794, after a 
tedious illness, of a complaint of the trachea, in the 
forty-eighth year of his age. From the best inform- 
ation I have been able to obtain respecting him, he was 
a person of some capacity and ingenuity. He was of 
a studious turn, and fond of reading ; and for the 
welfare of his family, too fond of making experi- 
ments in farming, and of engaging in the hazardous 
and too generally losing concern of mining. He 
was a man of small stature, even less than either of 
his sons, but well and actively made; and he de- 
lighted in shooting and fishing. Our mother's 
maiden name was Grace. She was the third and 
youngest daughter of Humphry and Elizabeth Mil- 
lett, both of SL Just, the most western parish in 
Cornwall, and which is distinguished for the purity 
and wholesomeness of its climate, and for the shrewd- 
ness and acuteness of mind of its inhabitants. Both 
our grandmothers belonged to this elevated district ; 
both were Adamses, though of different families, 
and were considered in that poor country as heiresses. 
Mr. Millett was engaged in business in the adjoining 
town of Penzance as a mercer. He and his wife 
died young, and in the same week ; he on the 3d of 
June, 1757&gt; and she on the 9th. But she was not 
aware of his death, as stated by Dr. Paris ; she was 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 7 

only informed that he was too ill to be with her. 
Nor is it a fact, that in dying she entreated her 
friend and medical attendant, Mr. John Tonkin, to 
have compassion on her children (as is also stated 
by Dr. Paris), and befriend them in their destitute 
condition, or that he took them to his house and 
maintained them. He indeed was their friend, and 
supplied the place of a father to them, and they re- 
tained through life a most grateful sense of his kind- 
ness, and of the great obligations they owed to it. 
The truth is, that at the time of the death of Mr. 
and Mrs. Millett, he was residing in their house, (I 
suppose in lodgings,) and there he continued to re- 
side for some years, the children being under the 
care of a Miss Peggy Adams, their cousin, in whose 
name the mercer's business was continued, by the 
profits of which the family was chiefly supported. 

My mother lived to the advanced age of seventy- 
six ; and, in all the various situations of life in which 
she was placed, she so conducted herself as to gain 
the regard and good- will of every one. She pos- 
sessed a most kind and affectionate heart, a pious 
mind, sound understanding, and perfect integrity. 
She was devoted to the performance of all her 
duties, and was remarkably free from all guile and 
foolish pride. When she became a widow,, she was 
in her thirty-fourth year, with five children, all of 
whom were still to be educated, excepting Hum- 
phry her eldest son. Her income at this time was 
about 150/. a year, and it was encumbered with a 
debt of about 1300/., contracted by my father, chiefly 
in consequence of losing speculations in mining. 
Her good resolutions did not fail her on this trying 
occasion. She met all her difficulties with courage 

B 4 



/ 



8 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and pradence, and by economy and exertion, aided 
by the kind indulgence of creditors, and some pro- 
perty falling in hand, even when least expected, she 
was able to bring up her family in the manner she 
could wish, and gradually to liquidate the whole of 
the debt. My brother, at the time of my father's 
death, was sixteen years old. Seeing her in great 
affliction, he in a very affectionate manner begged 
her " not to grieve," saying, " that he would do all 
in his power for his brother and sisters.*' She soon 
after removed from Varfell to Penzance, and, to aid 
in extricating herself from her pecuniary difficulties, 
she engaged in partnership with a young French 
lady, who, with her sister, had fled to England at 
this period of the French Revolution. She had some 
knowledge of millinery, and she had principal charge 
of a shop which was opened in their joint names. 
This partnership was continued three or four years ; 
it was dissolved in 1799, when my mother entirely 
relinquished the business, on a small estate, which in- 
creased her income to about 300/. a year, unex- 
pectedly coming into her possession. 

The state of society in the Mount's Bay only half 
a century ago was so peculiar, and different from 
what it is at present, that it requires to be noticed, 
not only as a matter of curiosity, but as necessaiy to 
elucidate the circumstances of family which I have 
just related, and to explain feelings and sentiments, 
which might otherwise appear unsuitable and mor- 
bid in the character of my brother. 

Cornwall was then without great roads. The 
roads which traversed the country were rather bridle 
paths than carriage roads; carriages were almost un- 
known, and carts even were very little used. I have 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. J&gt; 

heard my mother relate, that when she was a girl» 
there was only one cart in the town of Penzance^ 
and that if a carriage occasionally^ appeared in the 
streets it attracted universal attention. Fackhorses 
then were in general use for con%Kying merchandise, 
and the prevailing manner of travelUng was on 
horseback. At that period the luxuries of furniture 
and living, enjoyed by people of the middle class at 
the present time, were confined almost entirely to 
the great and wealthy : in the same town, where the 
population was about 2000 persons, there was only 
one carpet, the floors of rooms were sprinkled with 
sea sand, and there was not a single silver fork. 
The only newspaper which then circulated in the 
West of England was the Sherborne Mercury, and it 
was carried through the country, not by the post, 
but by a man on horseback specially employed in 
distributing it. At that time, when our colonial pos- 
sessions were very limited, our army and navy on a 
small scale, and there was comparatively little de- 
mand for intellect, the younger sons of gentlemen 
were often of necessity brought up to some trade, or 
mechanical art, to which then no discredit, or loss 
of caste, as it were, was attached. The eldest son, 
if not allowed to remain an idle country squire, was 
sent to Oxford or Cambridge, preparatory to his 
engaging in one of the three liberal professions of 
divinity, law, or physic j the second son was perhaps 
apprenticed to a surgeon or apothecary, or a soli- 
citor; the third to a pewterer or watchmaker; the 
fourth to a packer or mercer, and so on, were there 
more to be provided for. At the same time, the 
early education of all the sons was similar. They 
\^ere sent to a grammar-school, and there acquired 



10 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

in six or seven years a moderate portion of Latin 
and Greek. After their apprenticeships were finished, 
the young men almost invariably went to London, 
to perfect themselves in their respective trade or art, 
and on their return to the country, when settled in 
business, they were not excluded from what would 
now be considered genteel society. Visiting then 
was conducted differently from what it is at present. 
Dinner parties were almost unknown, excepting at 
the annual feast time. Christmas, too, was then a 
season of peculiar indulgence and conviviality, and 
a round of entertainments were given, consisting of 
tea and supper. Excepting at these two periods, 
visiting was almost entirely confined to tea parties, 
which assembled at three o'clock, broke up at nine, 
and the amusement of the evening was commonly 
some round game at cards, as Pope Joan, or Com- 
merce. The lower class then was extremely igno- 
rant, and all classes were very superstitious; even 
the belief in witches maintained its ground, and 
there was an almost unbounded credulity respecting 
the supernatural and monstrous. There was scarcely 
a parish in the Mount's Bay that was without a 
haunted house, or a spot to which some story of 
supernatural horror was not attached. Even when 
I was a boy, I remember a house in the best street 
in Penzance, which was uninhabited, because it was 
believed to be haunted, and which young people 
walked by at night at a quickened pace, and with 
a beating heart. Amongst the middle and higher 
classes, there was little taste for literature, and still 
less for science, and their pursuits were rarely of a 
dignified or intellectual kind. Hunting, shooting, 
wrestling, cockfighting, generally ending in drunken- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 11 

ness, were what they most delighted in. Smuggling 
was carried on to a great extent, and drunkenness 
and a low scale of morals were naturally associated 
with it Whilst smuggling was the means of acquir- 
ing wealth to bold and reckless adventurers, drunk* 
enness and dissipation occasioned the ruin of many 
respectable families. Mr. Coulson, of Penzance, a 
man of an inquisitive turn of mind, and of good 
information, who has favoured me with some remarks 
on this period, after adverting to this vice and its 
effects, observes, that &lt;* few places have exhibited 
greater changes than fhe neighbourhood of Pen- 
zance, and that not a single family belonging to the 
great gentry now in existence west of Hayle, or in 
the Mount's Bay, was known one hundred years' 
ago.'* The cucumstances just related, relative to 
Penzance and its neighbourhood, may appear almost 
incredible to those who are only acquainted with its 
present state ; its population of about 7000 souls, a 
harbour successively enlarged till it has become a 
woii . of great magnitude, generally crowded with 
shipping ; its streets, handsome, and almost entirely 
newly built, lighted with gas; a pubUc library, a 
geological and agricultural society*, and a neighbour- 
hood highly cultivated, abounding in garden grounds 
and gentlemen's villas, with excellent roads in all 
directions, even to the Land's End, and an ample 
number of carriages, public and private,^ of various 
descriptions. This, its present improved and flourish- 
ing condition, it owes to many causes, and chiefly to 



* Since the above ^as written^ a Mechanics' Institution has been 
established^ dedicated to the memory of my brother ; and another in- 
stitution^ bearing the name of the Penzance Institution^ designed to 
difiuse iLseful knowledge amongst the people. 



12 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

those which have operated in England generally 
during the period under consideration, and have 
effected throughout the countiy a similar augment- 
ation of wealth, and in many particulars an ameli- 
oration of circumstances. The tide of change and 
of improvement began to flow about the period that 
my brother was born, and it doubtless had a power- 
ful influence on his destiny ; in fact, he plunged into 
its current, conscious of his own powers and fitness 
to move in it, and advanced on its wave. 

My brother was born on the 17th of December, 
1778, at five o'clock in the morning, in a house in 
which our parents then resided in Market Jew Street, 
the first street on entering Penzance from the east- 
ward. He was christened on the 22d of January of 
the following year, and was nursed by my mother. 
He was a healthy, strong, and active child, and in 
every respect forward. It is remembered that he 
walked ofl^ (to use a nursery phrase,) when he was 
just nine months old, and I have been told that be- 
fore he was two years old he could speak fluently. 
About this time my eldest sister was born, and he 
was told by a servant, that on her appearance his 
" nose would be put out of joint." On seeing the 
baby, it is related of him, that he put his hand to his 
nose and said, " Mamma, my nose not out of joint.*' 
This may seem a very trifling incident, and unworthy 
of notice ; it marks, however, quickness and early at- 
tention. Being an only child when he was born, in 
the midst of many fond relations and kind friends, 
he was a great favourite, and was made much of, a 
circumstance no doubt which greatly conduced to 
^ the developement of his infant faculties. Before he 
had learned his letters, he could recite little prayers 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 18 

and stories, which had been repeated to him, till he 
had got them by heart ; and before he had learned 
to write, he amused himself with copjdng the figures 
in ^sop's Fables, which, with " Pilgrim's Progress/' 
were his first favourite books j and under his draw- 
ings in great letters he contrived to give them their 
names. His memory was very retentive ; in proof o* 
which it is handed down in the family, that when 
very young he could recite a great part of the book 
last mentioned, even before he could well read it. I 
believe that, like Pope, he " lisped in numbers." I 
remember hearing my mother say, that when scarcely 
five years old he made rhymes, and recited them in 
the Christmas gambols, attired in some fanciful dress 
prepared for the occasion by a playful girl who was 
related to him. His disposition as a child was re- 
markably sweet and affectionate. 

The first school he was sent to was that of a Mr. 
Bushell, at which reading and writing only were 
taught. This master, then an old man, remarking 
the rapid progress of his young pupil, in a very dis- 
interested manner recommended to my father re- 
moving him (he was then six years old) to the 
grammar school. The grammar school was kept 
by the Rev. Mr. Coryton, a man of irregular habits, 
and ill fitted for the office of teaching youth, and as 
deficient in good method as in sound scholarship. 
He was generally careless, indiscriminating, and in- 
dulgent in regard to the manner in which the boys 
performed their exercises; but occasionally severe, 
acting the tyrant, and punishing heavily slight of- 
fences. Pulling the boys' ears was practised by him 
in the most capricious manner, and my brother was 
too frequently a sufferer froth this infliction. It is 



14 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

recorded of him that, on one occasion, he appeared 
before Mr. Coryton with a large plaster on each ear, 
and that, when asked by his master what was the 
matter with his ears, he replied, with a very grave 
face, that he had " put the plasters on to prevent a 
mortification/* It is curious to see how, in after-life, 
he reflected on the apparent disadvantages and evils 
of this school, and supposed that good had accrued 
to him from them. In a letter to my mother, writ- 
ten in 1802, towards the close of it, making inquiries 
respecting me, who a short time before had been 
sent to school at Helstone, he asks, " Does John 
like Latin and his school, now the novelty of the 
first impression is passed away ? I recollect I was 
rejoiced when I first went to Truro school, but I 
was much more rejoiced when I left it for ever. 
Learning naturally is a true pleasure : how unfor- 
tunate then it is that in most schools it is made a 
pain. Yet Dr. Car dew comparatively was a most 
excellent master. I wish John may have as good a 
one. After all, the way in which we are taught 
Latin and Greek does not much influence the im- 
portant structure of our minds. I consider it for- 
tunate that I was left much to myself when a child, 
and put upon no particular plan of study, and that I 
enjoyed much idleness at Mr. Coryton's school. I 
perhaps owe to these circumstances the little talents 
that I have, and their peculiar application. What I 
am I have made myself; I say this without vanity, 
and in pure simplicity of heart ;*' and that it really 
was so said, is evident from the manner in which it 
is written at the end of the letter, when he had filled 
his paper with other matters, and was obliged to 
write it round the margin. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVIT. 15 

During the early part of his life, to which he thus 
refers the formation of the bias of his character, he was 
more distinguished out of school and by his comrades 
than by any great advance m learning. Within school 
the stimulus was wanting to exertion. He appears to 
have taken the lead in his class, and to have been satis- 
fied ; or rather, as it may be inferred from the abovCj 
disgusted, with the uninviting form in which classical 
knowledge was offered to him, and the repulsive 
circumstances accompanying it From his facility in 
composing Latin and English verse, his assistance 
was often requested, even by boys much older than 
himself, in these exercises ; and in writing valentines 
and love-letters he shone so pre-eminently, and gave 
his aid so willingly, that he is said to have been 
generally resorted to on all ^emergencies of boyish 
loves. Another cause of popularity amongst his 
comrades was his power of diverting them by telling 
them stories ; and so attractive were the stories, com- 
monly of wonder and terror, which he related, that 
they were in the habit, in an evening, of collecting 
at a particular place to wait for him, as under the 
balcony of the Star Inn*, which afforded shelter, 
and where, if there happened to be a cart, he would 
get into it and hold forth to his young audience. 
His stories, greatly embellished by his invention, 
were collected partly from books, especially the 
" Arabian Nights," of which he was ever very fond, 
and partly from old people, with whom he was a 
great favourite, particularly from his grandmother 
Davy. She was a woman of a fervid and poetical 

* This inn was nearly opposite to the house in which he was born : 
it has undergone less alteration than most of the houses in the town^ 
and its balcony still remains. 



16 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

mind, of a very retentive memory, and had at com- 
mand a rich store of traditions and marvels. His 
evenings were frequently spent with her, listening to 
tales of the olden time, and to stories of ghosts, in 
the apparition of which she had a stedfast belief; and 
she believed even that she had witnessed them her- 
self in two instances, and that a house, in which she 
had before lived in Tregony, was a haunted one. I 
have been told that one evening my brother enacted 
the part of a ghost by conceahng himself in a cup- 
board, provided with a sheet ; and in the dusk, when 
the old lady was seated by the fireside, he threw 
open the door and stalked across the apartment. It 
is remembered als6, that when he returned to the 
room presently afler, he had from her an exact ac- 
count of his successful apparition, with her cool spe- 
culations on its import. His other boyish tastes and 
pursuits, like the preceding, followed him into man- 
hood." Fishing was very early a favourite amuse- 
ment of his ; indeed, his taste for it appears to have 
been almost instinctive. When a child he used, 
with a crooked pin tied to a stick by a bit of thread, 
to go through the movements of the angler, and fish 
in the gutter of the street in which he lived. Dr. 
Paris tells a story in illustration of another taste in 
his boyish days for which he was distinguished in after- 
life, — that of experimenting, — and how it first ap- 
peared in his exhibiting a light within a turnip which 
he had scooped out, and which he used for the pur- 
pose of melting fragments of tin, obtained from the 
blocks of this metal which are collected quarterly in 
the market place of Penzance for coinage, or receiv- 
ing a mark upon them preparatory to their export- 
ation. In regard to the experimental part of the 



^^ 



sill HUMPHRY DAVY. 17 

exhibition I must express myself sceptical^ and am 
disposed to think that it was an addition of the 
person from whom Dr. Paris obtained his infimn- 
ation ; for, in the first place, boys are not allowed to 
take such liberties with the blocks of tin as is sup- 
posed ; and, in the next, I doubt if the fusion of a 
fragment of tin could be effected by the means spe- 
cified. The earliest indication that I am aware of, 
which he showed of his fondness for experimenting, 
was in making fire- works. My eldest sister very well 
remembers, that she was his assistant in this under- 
taking, and that their workshop was an unfurnished 
room, in which, in bad weather, the Rev. Dr. Tonkin 
(the elder brother of the friend of our family), then 
advanced in age, and a valetudinarian, took exercise 
on his chamber-horse, a large arm-chair attached to 
spring boards, which boards served for a table for 
compounding the ingredients of the squibs and 
crackers. 

The circumstances of his boyish days were equally 
favourable to health and the formation of active 
habits, and to the fostering of that love of nature 
which never forsook him through life, and was an 
unfailing source of solace and delight to him even in 
pain and sickness. He took up his abode with Mr. 
John Tonkin when he was nine years of age, on the 
occasion of our family leaving Penzance to reside at 
Varfell, which is situated on the shore of the Mount's 
Bay, separated from the sea by an intervening marsh, 
and immediately opposite the most striking and 
beautiful feature in the Bay, that from which it 
derives its name, St. Michael's Mount. This ro- 
mantic object, whether he was at Penzanc6 or at 
Varfell, was almost constantly in view ; and in the 

VOL. I. c 



18 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

frequent visits which he made to his home^ he saw 
much that could not fail to impress his susceptible 
inind. The country between Varfell and Penzance, 
a distance of about two miles and a half, is an ex*- 
quisite specimen of Cornish scenery: the expanse 
of the ever-varying blue sea on one side, bounded 
only by the horizon, and the distant headlands ; on 
the other side, furze-clad hills, and rocky little glens, 
pouring down transparent tiny streams, diversified 
with bright green fields, farm-houses, orchards, and 
all the other accompaniments of cultivation* * These 

^ The following poetical lines^ written by a gentleman of the 
neighbourhood of Penzance^ were intended to be inscribed on a pile 
of rocks known by the name of Gulval-Came^ situated in one of the 
most beautiful of the little valleys above alluded to&gt; and which was a 
favourite haunt of my brother's in early Ufe^ and where^ after hie 
death^ it was proposed to erect a monument to his memory : — 

Imcrtption for the Rocks at Gulval, 

These rocks were once the sportive hour's retreat 
Of Davy's boyhood. Here his youthful gaze 
Fix'd in rapt musing on the shores, the sea^ 
And on the " fabled Mount," which lifts its tower 
Crowning the waters. — Loved, but not indulged. 
The dreams of Fancy fled : for strong awoke 
Those inborn sympadiies, which bade him woo 
Philosophy, a helpmate to explore 
The depths of Nature, and- with chemic skill 
To trace the secret powers which mould her forms. 

Of human knowledge to enlarge the bounds. 
To win new empire for the mind of man, 
Ev'n in thy chambers ^, Death, — to him was given. 
How few achieve such triumphs ! whose rewards. 
Unlike the trophies raised by other toils, ^ 
By Time are cherish'd, and by Time increasied, ^ 

Preserve his name, ye rocks : and on your brow. 
As with a mother's fond, and fost'ring hand. 
Let Nature stiU her mossy garlands wreathe^ ; 
A monument, beyond man's utmost art 
To rear ; fit object of his tend'rest care ^ 
To guaid&gt; and save. C. V, L. G. 

' Nov.Q.nS\. 

1 By his Safety Lamp. ^ See his own thoughts in his Consolations. 

' ** Nee ingenuum violarent marmora tophum."— /tiv. Sai* 3. 20. 
See the whole passage. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 19 

little journeys to and fro were made on horseback, 
on a favourite pony, called Derby; and, when he 
was able to wield a fishing-rod, or carry a gun, he 
roamed at large in quest of sport over the whole of 
the adjoining districts, — a region admirably adapted 
to invite curiosity and affect the imagination, — whe- 
ther we look to its natural scenery, its antiquities, 
its venerable Druidicai remains, or its great works of 
mining art. Under the same favourable circum- 
stances, a taste for natural history early appeared in 
him : he had a little garden of his own, which he 
kept in order, and he was fond of collecting and 
painting birds and fishes. 

In mentioning these circumstances and incidents 
of his young life, I would not wish to be considered 
as attaching much importance to them. Thousands 
of individuals have been bom and brought up amidst 
similar scenes, and in a manner very little different 
from him, without being gifted with any unusual 
abilities ; and very many boys have shown indica- 
tions of precocious talent, superior to his, which has 
withered in the bud or flower. There belonged, 
however, to his mind, it cannot be doubted, the 
genuine quality of genius, or of that power of in- 
tellect which exalts its possessor above the crowd, 
and which, by its own energies and native vigour, 
grows and expands, and comes to maturity, aided, 
indeed, and modified by circumstances, but in no* 
wise created by them. We look back on the infancy 
of the man of genius with a curious and inquisitive 
eye, and easily discover presages in the actions of 
the child of the deeds of the man, — actions which, 
at the moment, attracted little attention, and seemed 
to be without import, and which owe their interest 

c 2 



20 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

solely to the future ; and thus I believe it was in my 
brother's case. He was thought at the time a clever 
boy, but not a prodigy ; and no anticipation was then 
formed of the high career he was so soon to enter 
upon, and of the proud distinctions he was about to 
earn. This very clearly appears from a letter of his 
last master, Dr. Cardew, to whose school he was 
removed when he was fourteen years old, on the 
15th of January, 1793. Dr. Cardew's words are, — 
" While he was under my care, he gave me much 
satisfaction, being always regular in the performance 
of his duties as a school-boy, and in his general con- 
duct He was, too, I believe, much liked by his 
school-fellows for his good humour ; but he did not 
at that time discover any extraordinary abilities, or, 
so far as I could observe, any propensity to those 
scientific pursuits which raised him to such eminence. 
His best exercises were translations from the classics 
into English verse.*' 

His quitting Dr. Cardew's school was an import- 
ant era in his life; he left it in December, 1793, 
and then, at the early age of fifteen, his school educa- 
tion was considered as completed, and his self-educa- 
tion, to which he owed almost every thing, was about 
to commence. ♦ 

* I have been favoured with a specimen of his early composition in 
prose (the earliest remaining)^ written when he was with Dr. Cardew^ 
and inserted in the school album^ which is still in existence. It ap. 
pears as a fragment; and is on Gratitude in connection with the 
Supreme Being : — 

" Our Creator should be the first object of gratitude^ which is due 
to him for all his mercies. We should admire^ love^ and praise him. 
Indeed^ we can never make sufficient return for his goodness : the least 
thing we can do is to be grateful ; yet we seldom consider him as the 
dispenser of the blessings we enjoy; we rather attribute it to our- 
selves. Yet if he were to withdraw the least of his favours^ we 
jrfiould think him unjust. Man seldom or never thinks himself obliged 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 21 

Immediately on his return to Penzance, he took up 
his abode with his kind friend Mr. John Tonkin, by 
whom he had been, in a manner, adopted, and who 
defrayed his expenses during the twelve months that 
he was at Truro. The greater part of the following 
year he was, I believe, in an unsettled state, studying 
in a desultory manner, by fits and starts, and yielding 
to the allurements of occasional dissipation, and the 
amusements which constitute the delight of active 
youth, as fishing, shooting, swimming, and solitary 
rambles. This, perhaps, was the most dangerous 
period of his life, and in conversation with me he has 
so spoken of it Amusement, for a time, threatened 
to obtain the mastery, and keep him down to the 
common level. But his good genius triumphed; 
and, after a few months vacillation, he applied him- 
self in earnest to the cultivation of his mind, and to 
the acquisition of knowledge ; and the flame, once 
kindled, burnt ever after, till it expired in death. 
His exact course of study, after leaving school, I 
have not been able to ascertain, except that he com- 
menced by taking lessons in French with a Mr. Du- 
gart, a refugee, who resided at Penzance ; nor have 
I been able to learn if any peculiar circumstances 
influenced him, besides the workings of his own 
mind and an aspiration after better things, to relin- 
quish all his idle and boyish habits. About this 



to his Maker; he makes a god of his own desires^ and adores them 
instead of the Deity. We should think ourselves obliged to a person 
who snatched us from impending danger^ or relieved us from distress : 
how much more grateful ought we to be to him who protects us every 
day from imminent danger^ and desires nothing for his goodness but 
gratitude and praise ? A grateful heart is more acceptable to the Lord 
than a multitude of sacrifices."*— ^. Davy. 

c 3 



22 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

period his father^s health was declining ; and in De- 
cember of that year ri794) he died. This event 
probably had a powerful effect in giving steadfastness 
to his resolution ; and, I am quite certain, that the 
circumstances of his family became with him an ad- 
ditional and powerful motive to exertion. Another 
circumstance, which immediately followed, might 
have aided the impression of the last : I allude to 
the choice of a profession. 

In the beginning of the following year, namely, on 
the 10th of February, 1795 (the date of his inden- 
ture), he was apprenticed to Mr. Bingham Borlase, a 
man of talent, then practising as surgeon and apo- 
thecary in Penzance, who afterwards received a 
diploma, and was distinguished as a physician. 

His note-books, commenced about this time, which 
have been preserved, and which are now before me, 
show the ardour with which he entered upon his 
studies, and the extensive reach of his mind in the 
various branches of knowledge which he proposed 
to pursue. 

The earliest of them, bearing the date of this year, 
is, on many accounts, a literary curiosity. It is a 
small quarto, with parchment covers : on one of the 
covers, on the outside, is the figure of an ancient 
lyre, drawn with his pen, and, on the other, an olive 
wreath encircling a lamp ; as if in anticipaticm of his 
great discovery of confining flame in the safety lamp. 
At the commencement of it is the following plan of 
study, which I shall transcribe verbatim : — 

1. Theology* 

Or Religion^ 1 f taught by Nature. 

Ethics^ Off moral virtues J ~ \ by Revelation. 

2. Geography. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 23 

5. My PrafewioD, 5« Language. 

1. fiotaoy. 1. Engliah. 

2. Phannacy. 2. French. 

3. Noaology. S. Latin. 

4. Anatomy. 4. Greek. 

5. Surgery. 5. Italian. 

6. Chemiatry. 6. Spanish, 
4. Logic. ?• Hebrew. 

6. Physics. 

1. The doctrines and properties of natural bo^es. 

2. Of the operations of nature. 

3. Of the doctrines of fluids. 

4. Of the properties of organised matter. 
S» Of the organisation of matter. 

6. Simple Astronomy. 

7. Mechanics. 9* History and Chronology. 
3. Rhetoric and Oratory. 10. Mathematics. 

To give some distinct idea of the bent of his 
studies at this time, I shall notice briefly the prin- 
cipal topics which appear in this MS. volume. It 
opens with " Hints towards the Investigation of 
Truth in Religious and Political Opinions, composed 
as they occurred, to be placed in a more regular 
manner hereafter." His first essay is " On the Im- 
mortality and Immateriality of the Soul ;" the second 
bears the title of " Body, organised Matter j" and 
his third is " On Governments.'* Then there fol- 
lows : — " On the Credulity of Mortals ;" next, 
" An Essay to prove that the Thinking Powers de* 
pend on the Organisation of the Body ;'' next, " A 
Defence of Materialism ;" next, " An Essay on the 
ultimate End of Being ;*' next, " On Happiness ;'* 
then, ** On Moral Obligation." These topics oc- 
cupy rather more than one half of the book ; the 
other part, which appears to have been written after, 
commences at the opposite end, inverted. The sub- 
jects treated of occur in the following order: — 
** Theology ;" " The Christian Religion not repug- 
nant to true Philosophy ;" " An Essay on the In- 

c 4 



S4« MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

fluence of Ctimate on national Manners and Hap- 
piness j" " On Friendship, an Essay ;" and besides 
these, which are the principal contents of the book, 
there are some verses, and the beginning of a ro- 
mance, called " An Idyl^^ in prose, in the form of 
dialogue ; the characters, " Trevelis, a warrior, and 
friend of Prince Arthur, and Morrobin, a Druid ;" 
the scene, " a cliff at the Land's End, in Cornwall, 
and the time, night" 

This mere enumeration of topics strongly marks 
the early bias of his mind j aiid the manner in which 
he treated the subjects was very characteristic ; first, 
I would say, of that period of his life, and next, of 
himself. This I shall illustrate by some extracts* 
Even the partial display of the workings of such a 
mind may be interesting, and not without advantage 
to others. He starts in his career of inquiry devot- 
ing himself to unprejudiced reason, which is to be 
his sole guide. With all the daring confidence of 
youth, he enters upon the most difficult problems in 
metaphysics and theology, and employing a syllo- 
gistic method of reasoning, in somewhat of a mathe- 
matical form (which, as he observes in his " Consola- 
tions in Travel,'* young men commonly follow in 
entering upon such inquiries), he arrives, as might 
be expected, at conclusions contrary to the good 
feelings and common sense of mankind. It will suf- 
fice to give an example of the arguments from which 
he deduces inferences in favour of materiahsm. He 
says, " If we trace the progress of the thinking 
powers from their original source, we shall find that 
they owe their being to perception. A child, when 
it first comes into the world, is without ideas, and, 
consequently, he does not think. All the actions h^ 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 05 

performs arise from instinct When hunger calls 
him, he satisfies his cravings with the milk of his 
mother; nor does he at all differ from the roost 
stupid animal, only in being more helpless. He pos- 
sesses but a small degree of perception ; his attention 
is awakened with diflBculty ; the memory is weak 
and faint; and the ideas, without being often re- 
peated, are not retained. As the child advances in 
years, the nerves become firmer and the brain 
stronger ; perception is quicker, and the memory is 
more tenacious and retentive. Judgment, the result 
of perception and memory, is displayed : by degrees 
reason as slowly advances ; and, lastiy, disposition, 
the boundary of human intelligence, appears. Gra- 
dual is the progress of mind from sense to science. 
When the mental faculties have reached their highest 
perfection in manhood, they gradually decline ; and 
nought is left of all the wreck of human knowledge 
but pure sensation, a principle gradually decaying 
with the falling frame. From hence therq follows a 
3elflevident corollary, that the thinking powers are 
not always the same : whatsoever is not always the 
same is naturally changeable, is mortal and material. 
Besides, we have traced the power of thinking from 
to 0, incjreasing with the corporeal powers, and de- 
creasing and ending with them.'' 

In .this cold region of materialism, which was alto- 
gether uncongenial to a mind like his, he remained a 
very short time. The same reasoning power .which 
entangled him in the difficulty, when more exercised 
and strengthened, freed him from the thraldom. In- 
tent on truth, he always had a wonderful facility in 
relinquishing an opinion, and this in metaphysical 
inquiries as well as in the pursuits of science ; and 



06 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

thu3, by not being too much *' devoted to consist- 
ency" (to use an expression of his own), he was 
able to advance in the line of discovery. There are 
before me now observations of* his in this note-book, 
written, apparently, after looking over his former sen-&gt; 
timents, and comparing them with those which he 
entertained at the moment. At the bottom of a 
portion of his first essay, in which he considers the 
reasons for and against the immateriality of the soul, 
he has written, ** These observations were written at 
i^ixteen years and a half: what a revolution in* my 
opinions since that time, now nineteen years and 
a half." 

In the same note-book, under the head of " The 
Christian Religion not repugnant to true Philoso- 
phy,'* he writesy " A very short time since, I should 
have considered nothing more unlikely than my 
defending religion." 

I shall now insert some passages from the same 
note-book, illustrative of this change of sentiment 
from materialism, and probably scepticism, if not 
irreligion, to a rational religious belief founded on 
immaterialism. I shall first give the heads of a train 
of argument in favour of the latter doctrine. 

•&lt; 1. The power of thinking does not naturally 
belong to matter. 

"2. Motion, if ever so artfully distributed, it is 
plak), can produce nothing but motion. 

** 8. Matter acts only in proportion as it moves ; 
thinking is acting withoot motion ; ergo^ that which 
thinks is not matter. 

" 4. The universality of the hypothesis. 

«• 5. Internal consciousness of the existence of a 
monadic indivisible soul." 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 27 

I shall next give some extracts^ conveymg his views 
on religion, which, though contained in this note- 
book, were probably formed a year or two later. 

" Theology. 

" All religion arises from a belief in a Supreme 
Being, the maker of, and the directing cause that 
governs, the universe. To prove, then, the neces- 
sity of religion, it will be first of all necessary to 
prove the existence of such a being. Things must 
have been in their present situation, either from the 
agency of such a being, or from chance. 

*' 1. From the consideration of final causes, there 
arise a thousand arguments to prove the being of a 
God. 

" 2. Then, if matter is naturally inanimate, motion- 
less, and disorganised, it would have ever con- 
tinued so, without some cause to set it in motion. 

" 3. If every part of matter had been naturally 
inclined to motion, the world would have been a 
universe of dancing atoms, without regularity. 

" One or other of these it' must have been j chance 
could have had no influence either in one or the 
other. 

&lt;&lt;Or supposing it had an influence on the last, it 
could never have produced regular systems, formed 
according to the nicest rules of geometry : it could 
never have produced organised systems capable of 
thinking. 

" If chance could not have made the world what it 
iSj and as matter is naturally motionless, it necessarily 
follows, that there must have been some cause which 
set it in motion, powerful, active, and intelligent. 
This cause having endowed particular masses of 



S8 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

matter with particular properties, — having made 
them active, intelligent, and powerful, and having 
given them means to increase their powers and hap- 
piness by many extraordinary benefits and advan- 
tages not common to being in general, — it follows that 
they ought to adore, and be thankful to him for 
the^e properties, which is the foundation of natural 
religion." 

A little further on are sketched the heads of an 
Essay, bearing the title of, " The Christian Religion 
not repugnant to true Philosophy.'* 

" 1. Introduction. Of the Nature of Evidence- 
Distinction between Faith and Knowledge. 

*' 2. Nature of the Evidence for Christianity. 

3. Christianity consistent with Theism. 
Deism the Religion of Jesus Christ. 

4. The Necessity of Revelation proved. 

5. The Difficulty of gaining the Knowledge of 
the Unity of the Godhead without Revelation. 

«* 6. The God of the Bible, and the Morality of 
the Bible, consonant with Reason and Nature. 

" ?• Objections answered." 

I cannot find that he completed or continued this 
essay; nor have I been able to find any thing on 
the subject of religion in any other of his eariy note- 
books, excepting in one, which, from the hand- 
writing, it may be inferred, was in use about the 
same time as the preceding, and which contains 
" A Letter on the pretended Inspiration of the 
Quakers and other Sectaries." In it are many 
forcible remarks on the subject of illusions in matters 
of religion, and on the influence of enthusiasm and 
superstition, " passions" (he justly observes) ** which, 
though seemingly opposite, are often found in the 






SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 29 

same person^ and domineer over the mind alter- 
nately.*' After showing the tendency of the human 
, mind to error from its very nature, and to deceive 
itself and others, mistaking the illusions of fancy for 
realities, and the hallucinations of a distempered 
intellect for heavenly inspirations ; and after point- 
ing out the usefulness of " a moderate degree of 
rational scepticism,*' as a guard against these sources 
of error, he concludes with observing, that " the 
simple and fundamental truths of the Christian reli- 
gion are perfectly intelligible ; viz., the unity of God; 
the necessity of morality ; and the future state of 
retribution founded on the resurrection.** And 
these, he adds, &lt;^ should be made the basis of our 
faith, for they will bear the test of reason, and stand 
firm and immutable amidst the eternal revolutions of 
opinion.** 

It is interesting to compare these his early in- 
quiries on the subject of religion with those he 
engaged in at a later period, as expressed in his 
" Salmonia,** and " Consolations in Travel.** We 
may trace in the former the germs of many of the 
latter; and, indeed, the resemblance is often so 
marked, that the trains of thought have very much 
the character of recollections; with this marked 
difference, however, that in youth he considered 
reason as all-suflBcient, whilst in later life he mis- 
trusted it, as inadequate, and built his faith on in- 
ternal or instinctive feeling, rather than on , any 
process of ratiocination. And, I may here further 
remark, that, in comparing the two periods of his 
life, in relation to this inquiry, it is instructive to wit- 
ness how presumptuous and daring is youthful genius ; 
how easily satisfied with the semblance of truth ; 



so MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

how modesty, distrust, and humility increase with 
the acquisition of knowledge; and how, with the 
conviction of the very limited extent of human know- 
ledge, religious hope and faith also increase. 

For the purpose of illustrating, as fully as is in my 
power, the other studies which he engaged in at this 
time, and his modes of thinking and feeling, I shall 
not hesitate to make further extracts from his note- 
books, which are the more interesting and worthy 
of credit, as they were intended solely for his own 
use, and contain, it may be said, the spontaneous 
effusions of his mind, " written in rough,*' as he 
expressly states. I shall limit these references, in 
this place, to the period of about three years and a 
half, at the expiration of which he left Penzance for 
Bristol. 

During the first year, that is 1795, from the con- 
tents of his earliest note-books already given, it 
would appear that his studies, though miscellaneous, 
were chiefly metaphysical, connected with religion ; 
and that neither his profession, nor any branch of 
physical science, had yet become the subject of 
decided preference. This 'is well shown in his essay 
** On the Influence of Climate on National Manners 
and Character.** It is ingeniously written, and dis- 
plays very considerable reading, and much discrimin- 
ation, but not a proportional knowledge in matters 
of science, and especially of chemical science. In- 
deed, there is a remark in it, which pretty clearly 
indicates, that when he wrote it he was ignorant of 
the merest rudiments of chemistry ; for, speaking of 
the climate of Egypt, he attributes the coolness of 
the nights there " to the great quantity of nitre 
with which the air is impregnated." 



SIB HUMPHRY DAVY. SI 



The '^ Essay on Friendship,'' which follows that 
on climate in the note-book, marks also the nature 
of his miscellaneous studies. It is chiefly deserving 
of notice, however, as it displays the generous sen* 
timents which he entertained at this period on the 
subject of friendship, and which he retained and 
cherished throughout life. I shall make a quotation 
from it, without hesitation on account of its length, 
believing that it will excite a sympathy in every 
ingenuous mind. 

" Friendship,*' he says, " derives all its beauty and 
strength from the qualities of the heart, or from 
virtuous orlpvely dispositions; or, should these be 
wanting, some shadow of them must be present : it 
can never dwell long in a bad heart or mean dis* 
position. It is a passion limited to the nobler part 
of the species, for it can never coexist with vice or 
dissimulation. Without virtue, or the supposition of 
it, friendship is only a mercenary league, or a tie 
of interest, which must of course dissolve when that 
interest decays, or subsists no longer. 

&lt;&lt; It is a composition of the noblest passions of 
the mind: a just taste and love of virtue, good 
sense, a thorough candour and benignity of heart, 
and a generous sympathy of sentiment and affections, 
are the essential ingredients of this nobler pas- 
sion. When it originates from love and esteem, is 
strengthened by habit, and mellowed by time, it 
yields infinite pleasure, ever new and ever growing. 
It is the best support amongst the numerous trials 
and vicissitudes of life ; and gives a relish to most 
of our enjoyments. What can be imagined more 
comfortable than to have a friend to console us in 
afflictions, to advise with in doubtful cases, and 



8Q MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

share our felicity ? What firmer anchor is there for 
the mind, tossed like a vessel on the tumultuous 
waves of contingencies, than this? It exalts our 
nobler passions, and weakens our evil inclinations ; 
it assists us to run the race of virtue with a steady 
and undeviating course. From loving, esteeming, 
and endeavouring to felicitate particular peopl^, a 
more general passion will arise for the whole of 
mankind. Confined to the society of a few, we 
look upon them as the representatives of the many, 
and from friendship learn to cultivate philanthropy." 

He finishes this essay with an allegory, intended to 
illustrate the influence of friendship, " in its tenderest 
form, between the sexes " (his own words), and how 
much their happiness depends upon mutual love 
and esteem. The Almighty is described, after the 
creation of man, as deliberating with the guardian 
angels of his throne, on the propriety of creating 
woman. Justice, Peace, and Virtue, personified in 
these angels, plead against her creation, on the 
ground of the vice and misery she is likely to bring 
on her companion, who, on her account, will be 
" driven from Paradise, and happiness, and joy, to 
labour in pain and misery on the barren earth." 

They are met by intercessors, by Mercy and 
Religion, who plead in her favour, and by Divine 
Love : — " The Omnipotent hesitated ; when his 
first-born child, the divine Love, stood before him; 
her countenance covered with smiles ineffably pleas- 
ing. * Create her,' she cried, * for Paradise itself 
will afford no delight to man without woman. 
She will be the cause of his misery, but she will 
likewise be the cause of all his happiness. She will 
console him in affliction ; she will comfort and har* 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. S3 

monise his soul; she will wipe the tears from his 
eyes, and compose the fury of his passions. Her 
friendship shall make him virtuous, and her love 
shall make him happy; and, lastly, the tree of 
their transgression, and the plant of immortality, 
nourished by the blood of her son, shall flourish, 
and grow out of paradise, and overspread the earth : 
man shall eat of their fruit, and be immortal and 
happy." 

There is poetry in this prose ; and the same note- 
book contains proofs, that, whilst his judgment and 
reasoning powers were unfolding, his imagination 
was kindled ; and, what is very unusual in youth, his 
fancy was not depressed by the severer faculties, 
but merely guided, sustained, and strengthened. 
Knowledge, in fact, was the food of his imagination, 
and, even his earliest poetry, displays a strong tinc- 
ture of philosophy, and not less of a love of nature ; 
indeed, these two, a philosophical spirit, and an 
intense love of nature, happily blended in his poetical 
writings, impart to them a peculiar character, and 
give them their principal charm. And all the al- 
lusions to nature, even at this early period, as well 
as at a later, betoken the strong impression of the 
actual scenery before his eyes, and express the great 
features of the scenes surrounding him. In con- 
firmation, I shall insert here one of his earliest 
poems entire, which was first published in the " An- 
nual Anthology" of 1799, with the date of 1795, 
when it was probably conceived, and perhaps written 
in part, though I believe it was not completed till a 
year or two after. 



VOL. I. 



34 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 



'' THE SONS OF GENIUS. 



u 



Bright bursting through the awful veil of night 
The lunar beams upon the ocean play ; 

The watery biUows shine with trembling lights 
Where the swift breezes skim along the sea. 

'^ The glimmering stars in yon ethereal plain 
Grow pale^ and fade before the lurid beams^ 
Save where fair Venus^ shining o'er the main^ 
Conspicuous still with fainter radiance gleams. 

^^ Clear as the azure firmament above^ 

Save where the white cloud floats upon the breeze ; 
All tranquil is the bosom of the grove^ 

Save where the zephyr warbles through the trees. 

^^ Now the poor shepherd wandering to his home, 
Surveys the darkening scene with fearful eye^ — 
On every green sees little elfins roam^ 

And haggard sprites along the moonbeams fly. 

'^ While superstition rules the vulgar soul. 
Forbids the energies of man to rise. 
Raised far above her low, her mean control. 
Aspiring genius seeks her native skies. 

'^ She loves the silent, solitary hours ; 

She loves the stillness of the starry night. 
When o'er the brightening view Selene pours 
The soft efiulgence of her pensive light. 

'^ 'Tis then, disturbed not by the glare of day. 
To mild tranquillity alone resigned. 
Reason extends her animating sway 

O'er the calm empire of the peaceful mind. 

'^ Before her lucid, all^enlightening ray. 
The pallid spectres of the night retire ; 
She drives- the gloomy terrors far away. 
And fills the bosom with celestial fire. 

" Inspired by her, the sons of. genius rise 

Above idl earthly thoughts, all vulgar care ; 
Wealth, power, and grandeur, they alike despise, — 
Enraptured by the good, the great, the fair. 

'^ A thousand varying joys to them belong, — 

The charms of nature and her changeful scenes : 
Theirs is the music of the vernal song. 
And theirs the colours of tlie vernal plains. 

*^ Theirs is the purple-tinged evening ray. 

With all the radiance of the evening sky ; 
Theirs is the splendour of the risen day. 
Enshrined in glory by the sun's bright eye. 



&lt;f 



&lt;€ 



&lt;€ 



&lt;€ 



€&lt; 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 35 

For them the zephyr fans the odorous dale ; 

For them the warhling streamlet softly flows ; 
For them the Dryads shade the verdant vale ; 

For them sweet Philomel attunes her woes. 

*^ To them no wakeful moonheam shines in vain 
On the dark bosom of the trackless wood ; 
Sheds its mild radiance o'er the desert plain^ 
Or softly glides along the crystal flood. 

Yet not alone delight the soft and fair^ 

Alike the grander scenes of nature move ; 
Yet not alone her beauties daim their care^ 

The great^ sublime^ and terrible they love. 

The sons of nature^ — they alike delight 

In the rough precipice's broken steep ; 
In the bleak terrors of the stormy night ; 

And in the thunders of the threatening deep. 

When the red lightnings through the ether fly^ 
And the white foaming billows lash the shores ; 

When to the rattling thunders of the sky 
The angry demon of the waters roars ; 

And when^ untouch'd by Nature's living fires^ 

No native rapture fills the drowsy soul ; 
Then former ages^ with their tuneful lyres^ 

Can bid the fury of the passions fall. 

By the blue taper's melancholy lights 

Whilst all around the midnight torrents pour^ 

And awfid glooms beset the face of nighty 
They wear the silent^ solitary hour. 

'^ Ah ! then how sweet to pass the night away 
In silent converse with the Grecian page^ 
Whilst Homer tunes his ever-living lay^ 
Or reason listens to the Athenian sage. 

To scan the laws of Nature, to explore 

The tranquil reign of mild Philosophy ; 
Or on Newtonian wings sublime to soar 

Through the bright regions of the starry sky. 

Ah ! who can paint what raptures fill the soul 

When Attic freedom rises to the war. 
Bids the loud thunders of the battle roll. 

And drives the tyrant trembling from her shore ? 

From these pursuits the sons of genius scan 
The end of their creation, — hence they know 

The fair, sublime, immortal hopes of man. 
From whence alone undying pleasures flow. 

D 2 



€&lt; 



« 



« 



€i 



S6 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

^' By Science calmed, over the peaceful soul^ 
Bright with eternal Wisdom's lurid ray^ 
Peace, meek of eye, extends her soft control^ 
And drives the puny Passions far away. 

^^ Virtue, the daughter of the skies supreme. 

Directs dieir life, informs their glowing lays ; 
A steady friend, her animating heam. 
Sheds its soft lustre o'er their latter days. 

*' When life's warm fountains feel the frost of time. 
When the cold dews of darkness dose their eje9. 
She shows the parting soul upraised, sublime, 
The brighter glories of her kindred skies. 

'' Thus the pale moon, whose pure celestial light 
Has chased the gloomy clouds of heaven away. 
Rests her white cheek, with silver radiance bright. 
On the soft bosom of the western sea. 

'^ Lost in the glowing wave, her radiance dies ; 

Yet, while she sinks, she points her lingering ray 
To the bright azure of the orient skies. 
To the fair dawning of the glorious day. 

" Like the tumultuous billows of the sea 
Succeed the generations of mankind ; 
Some in oblivious silence pass away. 

And leave no vestige of their lives behind. 

*^ Others, like those proud waves which beat the shore, 
A loud and momentary murmur raise ; 
But soon their transient glories are no more. 
No future ages echo with their praise. 

" Like yon proud rock, amidst the sea of time, 
Superior, scorning all the billow's rage. 
The living sons of genius stand sublime. 
The immortal children of another age. 

^&lt; For those exist whose pure ethereal minds. 
Imbibing portions of celestial day. 
Scorn all terrestrial cares, all mean designs. 
As bright-eyed eagles scorn the lunar ray. 

^' Theirs is the glory of a lasting name. 

The meed of genius, and her living fire ; 
Theirs is the laurel of eternal fame. 

And theirs the sweetness of the muse's lyre." 

From the same source of information, his note- 
books, it appears that in the beginning of the fol- 
lowing year, namely, 1796, he entered on the study 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 3? 

of the mathematics. One book is almost entirely 
confined to this subject ; and in it, his progress may 
be traced through the following branches, which he 
enumerates under the head of ^* Mathematical Ru- 
diments ; '' viz., " Fractions, vulgar and decimal ; 
Extraction of Roots ; Algebra (as far as quadratic 
equations), Euclid's Elements of Geometry ; Trigo- 
nometry ; Logarithms; Lines and Tangents; Tables; 
Application of Algebra to Geometry, &amp;c/* He 
entered upon Fractions, February 8th, 1796 ; and he 
appears to have finished the elementary course which 
he assigned himself in little more than twelve months, 
for the last date is January 2. 1797&gt; when he was 
commencing the eleventh book of Euclid, and he had 
gone through most of the other branches. 

In this study he was very systematic ; the propo- 
sitions are all entered very neatly, and the demon- 
strations given ; the diagrams are invariably done 
with a pen, without the aid of mathematical instru- 
ments, not even of a common compass and ruler, 
except in one or two instances. This circumstance 
of itself would show that he engaged in these studies 
without a master, which was the fact, and perfectly 
voluntarily on his part, from the conviction of their 
usefulness preliminary to the study of physical and 
chemical science. 

His favourite pursuit and exercise of mind this 
year and the following, as also during the preceding, 
was metaphysics, on which he has left very copious 
notes. These rough notes display much thought, 
and some original thought, and an acquaintance with 
the writings of all the more distinguished metaphy- 
sicians of modern times, as Locke, Hartley, Bishop 
Berkeley, Hume, Helvetius, Condorcet, Reid, and his 

D 3 



38 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

followers, who are designated by the general title of 
the Scotch metaphysicians ; and he appears to have 
had some acquaintance with the doctrines of Kant 
and the Transcendentalists. Even now he thought 
for himself, and seems to have been free from the 
undue influence of authority. When he mentions 
distinguished names, it is not in the way of simple 
assent to their opinions, but critically, and often in 
terms of dissent. Thus, on the subject of ideas, he 
admits, with Locke, that what are commonly called 
innate ideas are words without meaning ; but he does 
not admit that the mind of the new-born child is a 
tabula rasa ; he contends that, even in the womb, it 
may have acquired ideas of touch and of hearing, and 
that, even before birth, thought may have been exer- 
cised. In illustration of his modes of thinking at 
this time, I shall give a few passages which occur in 
his note-book detached. 

&lt;^ Human life is nothing more than a succession of 
sensations, ideas, pleasures, and pains. Science or 
knowledge is the association of a number of ideas, 
with some idea or term capable of recalling them to 
the mind in a certain order." 

" By examining the phenomena of nature, a cer- 
tain similarity of effects is discovered. The business 
of science is to discover these effects, and to refer 
them to some common cause ; that is, to generalise 
ideas." 

" Far from being conscious of the existence of 
matter, we are only conscious of the active powers of 
some being. By discovering the ratio between the 
attraction and repulsion of external things and our 
organs, we should discover philosophy.'* 

About this time, or perhaps a little later, — certainly 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 39 

whilst he was at Penzance, — he commenced a work, 
which he intended to have been of a comprehensive 
kind and considerable length, but which, like all his 
other exercises of mind at this period, was unfinished. 
It was called " Observations relating to Existence :'* 
I shall notice briefly some parts of it. The first division 
of it was " On the Use of Words," in which he points 
out the idols of language, and how the idolatry of 
words has infected all discussions as concerning space, 
identity, spirit, substance, matter, &amp;c. He says, " The 
science of the human mind, or existence, is nothing 
more than the formation of an intelligible language, in 
which a simple history of the existence and arrange- 
ment of impressions, ideas, or feelings is commu- 
nicated." The second division is " On Innate Ideas," 
to which I have already referred. Opposing the 
notion of the child being born with its mind blank, 
he remarks, " If a child is capable of hearing ex- 
ternal noises in the womb, he may, probably, have 
some collections of ideal terms in his mind before 
birth J they can, however, have no accurate meaning, 
but they may have meaning, because they may be 
associated with other ideas. When considering this 
subject, he observes, " What are called reasonings, 
moral truths, and self-evident propositions, are neither 
more nor less than collections of general terms 
standing for other terms, which themselves stand for 
ideas." The third division is "On Consciousness," 
and the fourth, " On the Arrangement of Beings," 
with which the fragment terminates as a connected 
dissertation. 

His metaphysical studies were associated with some 
professional ones. Those of which he left any memo- 
randa were chiefly theoretical, relating to physiology, 

D 4 



40 M£MOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

in which he pursued a path simikr to that he first 
followed in metaphysics ^nd religon, — being a process 
of abstract reasoning founded on a few principles, 
or abstract terms, by which, like Hartley and Brown, 
he attempted to explain all the phenomena of life. 
But his illusion was of short duration ; he very soon 
discovered the fallacy of the method, and ever after 
completely avoided it 

His passion for poetry appears to have kept pace 
with the expansion of his faculties, and not to have 
been damped even by application to the mathematics ; 
but all his efforts in numbers this year were desul- 
tory, if I may judge from the remains of them, and 
confined principally to brief effusions, expressive of 
some particular sentiment or feeling. I shall give 
only one specimen, the concluding part of a small 
poem called " The Tempest,** which was published in 
the " Annual Anthology** of 1799, with the date of 
1796 : — 

« THE TEMPEST. 



« 



eg 



For the brijght blushing mornings all rosy with light. 
Shall convey on his wings the Creator of day ; 

He shall drive all the tempests and terrors of night. 
And nature^ enliven'd, again shall be gay. 

Then the warblers of spring shall attune the soft lay. 
And again the bright flowret shall blush in the dale ; 

On the breast of the ocean the zephyr shall play. 
And the sunbeam shall sleep on the hiU or the vale. 

''^ If the tempests of Nature so soon sink to rest ; 
If her once faded beauties so soon glow again ; 
Shall man be for ever by tempests oppressed, — 
By the tempests of passion^ of sorrow, and pain ? 

'^* Ah, no ! for his passions and sorrows shall cease^ 
When the troublesome fever of life shall be o'er ; 
In the night of the grave he shall slumber in peace. 
And passion, and sorrow, shall vex him no more. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 41 

'' And shall not this night, and its long dismal gloom^ 
Like the night of the tempest again pass away ? 
Yes ! the dust of the earth in bright beauty shall bloom. 
And rise to the morning of heayenly day." 

In the following year (1797) he appears to have 
commenced in earnest the study of natural philo- 
sophy. The bias of his former speculations followed 
him here, as his note-books show, in which there are 
some theoretical views and reasonings respecting 
impulse, and the communication of motion; and 
further on this subject, or on the collision of bodies, 
I suspect his inquiries did not extend. Dr. Paris, 
from some information which he received from my 
brother's early friend and schoolfellow, the Rev. 
Dr. Batten, fancies that he had made a series of 
experiments to investigate the laws of the collision 
of bodies, by means of elastic and inelastic balls. 
This conclusion I am disposed to consider unfounded: 
amongst his memoranda there is no allusion to any 
such experiments, nor did I ever hear him speak of 
them. He was fond of billiards, and for a short time 
afler leaving school indulged in the game, as I have 
heard him mention, when speaking of that dangerous 
period of his life. At the billiard table, I would 
conjecture he collected the data, on which the 
speculations on collision were founded, with which 
he surprised his friend. Be this as it may, the 
pursuit of natural philosophy soon gave place to 
that of chemistry. He began the study of chemistry 
in November or December of the same year, when 
he was just entering on his nineteenth year. Several 
incidents, which will be mentioned hereafter, enable 
me to fix the time with precision. He appears to 
have entered on this study merely as a branch of his 
professional knowledge, and to have followed it at 



42 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

first chiefly theoretically. His early chemical read- 
ing was confined to two works of a very difierent 
description, — " Lavoisier's Elements of Chemistry," 
and " Nicholson's Dictionary of Chemistry," — the one 
distinguished for its admirable logic, precision of rea- 
soning, and boldness of speculation compared with 
any that had preceded it; the other an indifierent 
collection of facts and opinions, of various times and 
merit, — a kind of border tract between the old and 
new doctrines, and hardly worthy of the name of 
the author it bore. This new study seems very soon 
to have excited in his mind a most lively interest. 
He was not satisfied with merely reading, and ac- 
quiring the ideas of others; he criticised the 
theoretical views of the great French philosopher; 
doubted, rejected, and advanced speculations of his 
own. And speculation appears to have led him to 
experiment, and experiment to further speculation, 
with such rapid progress, that in a few months he 
formed a new hypothesis, and flattered himself that 
he had triumphed over an important part of the 
doctrine of the French school. Such was the com- 
mencement of his career of original research, which 
in a few years, by a succession of discoveries, accom- 
plished more in relation to change of theory and 
extension of science, than in the most ardent and 
ambitious moment of youth he could either have 
hoped to eflect, or could have imagined possible. 

I could wish to dwell on his early chemical studies 
and pursuits, and relate all the circumstances of them 
minutely ; but I regret to say that I have very little 
information to give respecting them. That the 
theoretical parts of chemistry first engaged his at- 
tention, will presently appear from his own words. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 48 

It is, however, equally certain, both from his own 
statements, and from the recollection of his family, 
that he did not confine himself to speculation, and 
that he very soon entered on a course of experiments. 
His means, of course, were very limited ; not more 
extensive than those with which Priestley and Scheele 
began their laboiu*s in the same fruitfld field. His 
apparatus, I believe, consisted chiefly of phials, wine 
glasses, and tea cups, tobacco pipes, and earthen 
crucibles ; and his materials were chiefly the mineral 
acids and the alkalies, and some other articles which 
are in common use in medicine. He began his 
experimental trials in his bed-room in Mr. Tonkin's 
house, in which, as already stated, he was a favoiu*ite 
inmate. Here there was no fire, and when he re- 
quired it, he was obliged to come down to the 
kitchen with his crucible. Dr. Paris, in describing 
this period of his life, and the imaginary shifts he 
was driven to for apparatus, indulges in some face- 
tiousness respecting a syringe forming part of a case 
of instruments which, according to his story, a ship- 
wrecked French surgeon, in gratitude for attentions, 
gave my brother, and which was converted by him 
into a pneumatic apparatus. The details of the new 
application of this instrument are given by Dr. Paris, 
with a minuteness and vivacity worthy of De Foe, 
as if he himself had been a spectator of what he de- 
scribes. Notwithstanding, I believe the story to have 
been altogether an invention ; and, as Dr. Paris states 
that he had it from Mr. Giddy, Mr. Giddy probably 
had it from some facetious person, who wished to 
amuse him. This I infer, because no one belonging 
to our family ever before heard of this instrument, 
or of the French surgeon, or of the shipwrecked 



44 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

French vessel off the Land's End, so circumstantially 
noticed in Dr. Paris's lively narrative. 

The experiments, I believe, which my brother 
first engaged in, were of a simple kind ; as the pre- 
paring of the gases, trying the effects of acids and 
alkalies on vegetable colours ; the solution and pre- 
cipitation of metals ; in brief, those required to illus- 
trate the leading doctrines of the science, and to 
exhibit the most remarkable then known of its 
agents. But to these alone he did not long confine 
himself; very soon he originated new experiments, 
for the pui-pose of supporting his speculative views, 
or of ascertaining the truth of his opinions. The 
number, however, of these, I believe was not large ; 
and I infer this from his own statements, and from 
not being able to find in his note-books of the time 
any minutes of experiments, — only hypothetical 
views and arrangements. 

The rapidity with which he advanced in his new 
pursuit is strongly indicated by the circumstance 
that, in the April following, in the short space of 
four months, he was in correspondence with Dr. 
Beddoes, relative to his researches on "Heat and 
Light,** and a new hypothesis on their nature, to 
which Dr. Beddoes became a convert. The results 
of these researches were the chief subject of his first 
publication, " Essays on Heat and Light,** &amp;c., which 
were in part written a few months after he had com- 
menced the study of chemistry. I shall have occa- 
sion to revert to them particularly further on, when 
the time in which they were finished and published 
comes under consideration ; viz., the year 1799. 

The very rapid advance I have described was, 
no doubt, principally owing to the enthusiasm 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 45 

with which he prosecuted the science, and applied to 
it all the powers of his mind : but it was also favoured 
and promoted by circumstances. These I shall briefly 
notice, and one especially, which was his becoming 
acquainted with Mr. Gregory Watt. This gentle- 
man came to Penzance in the winter of 1797, and 
remained there during the following spring; and, 
fortunately for my brother, became a lodger in my 
mother's house, boarding with the family. He was 
then in his twenty-first or twenty-second year, as I 
have learned from his brother, Mr. James Watt. He 
had left the University of Glasgow a short time 
before; his mind, enriched beyond his age with 
science and literature, with a spirit above the little 
vanities and distinctions of the world, devoted to the 
acquisition of knowledge. Of a mild and amiable 
disposition, in familiar intercourse with the family 
with whom he lived, he and my brother speedily be- 
came acquainted, and their acquaintance soon ripened 
into friendship of the warmest and most disinterested 
kind. They met daily ; explored the objects worthy 
of notice in the adjoining country ; visited the most 
remarkable mines, and, as my sister well remembers, 
generally returned from their walks with their pockets 
loaded with specimens of rocks and minerals. The 
Wherry mint, the shaft of which was in the sea, ap- 
proached by a long wooden bridge, and the workings 
of which were entirely under the sea, at the short dis- 
tance of about a mile from Penzance, was a favourite 
place of resort with them. It afibrded an unusual 
variety of minerals *, and, from its peculiarities, could 

* In a paper by my brother on the Greology of Cornwall, published 
in the first volume of the Transactions of the Royal Geological Society 
of Cornwall, this variety is called by him " extraordinary." He says. 



46 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

not fail to excite a deep interest in their minds, as a 
struggle of art against nature, in which a victory was 
gained over the elements by means of the most 
wonderful invention of the age, — the steam-engine, 
— which, only a short time before, had been per- 
fected by the distinguished father, the elder Mr. 
Watt; and this very engine, erected on the shore, 
acting at a distance over the surface of the sea, and 
drawing up water from beneath its bed, was one of the 
earliest that had been introduced into Cornwall. * 

The precise advantages which my brother derived 
from these excursions and daily communings can- 
not be calculated. The information he obtained was 
doubtless one, but I suspect a very small one, in 
comparison with another : I mean the sympathy 
which the generous friendship of youth, so suitable 
to genius, is ever ready to yield, and the conscious- 
ness of intellectual power and resources, which must 
naturally result from the struggle of intellect. 

If this meets the eye of any reader of Dr. Paris's 
work, a marked difference will be perceived between 
his account and that which I have given of the 
manner in which this acquaintance was formed. I 
think it right to revert to Dr. Paris's, because I do 
not consider it just to either party. He speaks of 
Mr. Gregory Watt as possessing " a solemn aristo- 



'' I haye seen in the refuse heaps^ blende^ oxide of uranium^ oxide of 
titanium and of iron; peach blende, nickel^ and arsenical pyrites; 
and in a single piece of the vein of a few inches square many of these 
substances might be found embedded in quartz or chlorite." — P. 42. 

* For a description of this remarkable mine^ I may refer the reader 
to Mr. John Hawkins's paper on submarine mines, published in the 
same volume of the work last quoted. Mr. Hawkins remarks, that 
*' the close of this mine was as romantic as its commencement. Its 
machinery was destroyed by a vessel which broke from its anchorage in 
the adjoining roadstead, and ran against it." — P. 142. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 47 

cratic coldness of manner, which repulsed every ap- 
proach to familiarity;" and of my brother as "not 
possessing any of those qualifications in person or 
manner which are calculated to produce favourable 
prepossessions ;" adding, that he sought to ingratiate 
himself with Mr. Watt by metaphysical discussions, 
but, instead of admiration, he excited the disgust of 
his hearer,'* &amp;c. Dr. Paris does not state how he 
obtained this information, which, indeed, from the 
manner in which it is delivered, so dramatic and pre- 
cise, one might suppose he owed to his own personal 
knowledge, and that he was actually present, and saw 
and heard what he describes : but that was impos- 
sible. No doubt he has been misled by some one, 
who was no friend to either individual, and capable 
of sacrificing truth for the sake of the ludicrous. The 
"solemn aristocratic manner'* attributed to the one, 
as little belonged to him as " pertness** did to the 
other. The manner of Mr. Gregory Watt, I have 
been informed by those that knew him, was simple, 
mild, and kind ; and that of my brother, I have been 
assured, was in nowise deficient in youthful modesty 
or grace ; and further on, when it will be my duty to 
repel similar aspersions, I shall bring forward evi- 
dence in proof of what I have stated. * Some respect 
is due to genius, — the illustrious dead should not be 
spoken of by scoffing tongues, — justice at least is 
due to them. If an author is cursed with a prurient 
pen, let him direct it against the living, who can 

• Mr. Gregory Watt's surviying brother, Mr. James Watt, in a 
letter now before me, addressed to John Craig, Esq., says, " I do not 
think, speaking from the recollection of my impressions, and those of 
some mutual friends of my brother and Sir Humphry, that the pub- 
lished* accounts have done full justice to the first intercourse between 
them." 



48 MEMOIRS OF THE tiFE OF 

reply. Unfortunately, it too frequently happens that 
the person who is capable of traducing departed 
worth, as unblushingly flatters living power. Unfor- 
tunately, too, whenever dirt is thrown, some of it will 
zdherCy ^* calumniare audacter aliquid adhcerebit ;^^ 
and it is painful to think that it can only be washed 
away by the stream of time, which, whilst it purifies, 
destroys. 

To return to my subject. —Another favourable cir- 
cumstance, though less to be insisted on, was the 
acquaintance which my brother about the same time 
formed with Mr. Davies Gilbert (afterwards his 
successor in the chair of the Royal Society), a man 
older than himself, with considerable knowledge of 
science generally, and with the advantages of a 
university education. The manner in which they 
became acquainted requires to be mentioned, as it, 
too, has been misrepresented and placed in a ludicrous 
point of view by Dr. Paris. It was briefly thus: — 
My brother, at this time, when prosecuting his che- 
mical inquiries, begged of Mr. John, a gentleman 
of great respectability, and one of the oldest in- 
habitants of Penzance (who is my authority), to 
witness some experiment. He good-naturedly looked 
at it, remarking, at the same time, that he did not 
understand these things, but that there was a friend 
of his who did, and that the experiment should be 
shown to him. This was Mr. Gilbert (then Mr. 
Davies Giddy), to whom Mr. John took an oppor- 
tunity of introducing my brother. It is not neces- 
sary to particularise Dr. Paris's narration of their 
meeting, written with the same levity and desire to 
excite a laugh as the one preceding ; but I d(\ con- 
sider it right to endeavour to correct the exaggerated 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 49 

manner in which he speaks of my brother's obligations 
to Mr. Gilbert, which I cannot help thinking must be 
distressing to Mr. Gilbert himself. The advantages 
derived from his acquaintance were similar to those 
experienced from the friendship of Mr. Gregory 
Watt — such as result from scientific and literary 
intercourse, which, though mutual, may be differently 
estimated according to the feelings of the individuals 
concerned, and their respective grade in society. 
More substantial benefits, I believe, Mr. Gilbert 
never conferred on my brother, except in facilitating 
the arrangements connected with his first scientific 
appointment. If his expressions of gratitude were 
to be taken as the measure of his obligations, it 
might be supposed that, throughout life, he was 
under obligations to most of his correspondents. 
He was always thankful for kindness, which was 
with him an obligation. 

In considering the very rapid progress of my 
brother in chemical science, other circumstances, 
besides the acquaintance of Mr. Gregory Watt and 
Mr. Davies Gilbert, may be briefly noticed: even 
the locality of his native town was favourable to it. 
The surrounding mines of copper and tin, abounding 
in a great variety of splendid and extraordinary 
minerals, worked to vast depths by means of the 
power of water and steam; the adjoining cliffs 
and headlands, composed of rocks strikingly diffe- 
rent, from the granite of the Land's End to the 
serpentine of the Lizard; and even the sea and 
air of that tempestuous and ever-changing climate, 
could hardly fail to rouse the curiosity of his active 
intellect, and to excite a strong desire to study the 
science which promises to explain the mysterious 

VOL. I. E 



50 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

operations of nature. And^ when he did begin the 
study of it, these sources yielded him subjects in 
abundance to experiment on, and bring into play 
his powers of research ; even the weeds thrown up 
by waves on the sea-shore, or vegetating in the pools 
of salt water on the ebbing of the tide, afforded 
matter for interesting inquiries, and were, indeed, 
one of the first objects, if not the very first, to 
which he applied himself in the way of original 
research. 

Moreover, the state of the science at that time 
was very favourable to his rapid advances in it : a 
new theory of chemistry, the antiphlogistic, only a 
few years before had been brought forward, and was 
hardly yet fully established; pneumatic chemistry 
was a recent acquisition, and its distinguished dis« 
coverers were still flourishing ; analytical chemistry, 
and chemistry applied to nature and the arts, were 
even less advanced : in brief, the known boundaries 
of the science were of small extent, the knowledge 
of it easily acquired, and in every direction un- 
explored regions tempted enterprise and ambition. 

Nor is it undeserving of mention, that the course 
of study which he himself had followed previous 
to his entering on chemistry was well adapted to 
aid in the acquisition of the latter : in fact, it was 
just that course which, in his posthumous work in 
the dialogue called the ** Chemical Philosopher,*' he 
recommends as a preparatory one. From his school 
education he had acquired a tolerable knowledge 
of Latin and Greek ; after leaving school, he had 
learned French so as to read works in that language 
with perfect facility, and to speak it fluently (though 
not with a good pronunciation ; for his master was a 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 51 

Breton); he had mastered the rudiments of the 
mathematics ; his mind had been exercised in meta« 
physical discussion ; and his reading had been more 
extensive than most people would imagine, either 
considering his youth, or what might be supposed 
the means within his reach. There is now before 
me a list of books, which he read before quitting 
Penzance ; it is furnished by Mr. Coulson from his 
own knowledge. In this list are enumerated •* Locke's 
Essays — Reid's, and Stewart's, Enfield's History of 
Philosophy, RoUin's Ancient History, Gibbon's De- 
cline and Fall of the Roman Empire, History of 
Modern Europe, Hume's Essays and History, 
Thomson's Seasons, Milton, and Shakspeare." Be- 
sides these, there were many other works which 
he perused, both of science, literature, and poetry, 
either belonging to his family, or borrowed from his 
friends, or got from a book club in Penzance, which, 
I believe, was formed after he had become acquainted 
with Mr. Davies Gilbert, as this gentleman was also 
a subscriber to it. 

Lastly, it may be remarked, his professional pur- 
suits accorded with his chemical, and even promoted 
them. This was a circumstance of some importance, 
inasmuch as he could conscientiously devote a con- 
siderable portion of his time to his favourite science 
without any feeling of impropriety, with the con- 
viction, that the knowledge he was so assiduously 
gaining might be of the greatest use to him, both in 
the study and practice of the healing art. 

How he conducted himself during his apprentice- 
ship, as a student of medicine and as an assistant of 
his master, now requires to be mentioned. It would 
appear that he applied himself with earnest zeal to 

E 2 



52 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

all his professional studies and duties, and that he 
gained equally the good opinion of Mr, Borlase and 
of his patients, especially of the poorer class, to 
whom he showed particular kindness. Mr. Boriase's 
high opinion of him, and estimation of his deserts, 
was proved by an act of generous kindness, which 
-will be noticed in its place; and this gentleman's 
sister, Mrs. Foxell, bears testimony to the humane 
way in which he behaved towards those in humbler 
life. She has told my sister, that, "in all cases 
of distress, she used to call upon him, and al- 
ways found him ready to render every assistance 
in his power ; and that she had often heard him say 
that he wished to make himself useful to his fellow- 
creatures." My eldest sister, who was only two 
years younger than my brother, in her recollections 
of him (which, at my request, she has committed to 
paper), speaking of the manner in which he was 
considered at this time, especially by Mr. Borlase's 
family, and by poor patients, — after noticing that he 
was a great favourite with the old Mr. Borlase, the 
venerable father of Dr. Borlase, with whom he often 
sat up at night during his last illness, who liked to 
receive all his medicines from his hands, and on 
whose countenance, however much in pain he might 
be, and impatient, the sight of him was sure to pro- 
duce a smile, — adds, " All the family loved and re- 
spected him : indeed, I may say he was beloved by 
all who Jiad the happiness of knowing him. Many 
poor people whom he attended speak of him witih 
respect, gratitude, and affection ; he not only relieved 
their wants as much as lay in his power, he also 
sympathised in their afflictions." She further adds, 
." I believe I mentioned to you a poor soldier he 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 53 

attended, who had been neglected by his surgeon. 
The poor man's head was in a dreadful state : nothing 
but great humanity^ and a wish to relieve the suffer- 
ings of a fellow-creature, could have induced him to 
dress it every day/' And she remarks, immediately 
after, " I have often heard my mother say, that from 
a child he had a most feeling heart/' 

Of the exact nature and extent of his medical 
studies I am not able to give a precise account. 
Mr. Borlase was much above the level of country 
practitioners in general, both in professional and 
literary attainments; it may be fairly inferred that 
he would give all the instruction in his power to 
his favourite pupiL His collection of medical works 
was, I believe, pretty extensive and good; and to 
these alone my brother's reading was not confined : 
he used freely the books which belonged to his 
friend Mr. John Tonkin, and he had probably the 
use of Dr. Tonkin's library, not to mention some 
medical and surgical works which had belonged to 
a Mr. John Davy, a surgeon, and a near relation. 
His progress in his profession must have been con- 
siderable, as when he went to Bristol, in the fourth 
year from the commencement of these studies, he 
was considered competent by Dr. Beddoes to take 
charge of the patients belonging to the Pneumatic 
Institution. 

Though intensely devoted to study and the ac- 
quisition of various knowledge, he did not, however^ 
give up shooting and fishing. With bis gun and 
dog (an excellent water spaniel, called Chloe *), he 

* This favourite dog is well remembered in Penzance. Having 
been taken from her mother as soon as bom^ with the greater part of 
the litter^ she was about to be drowned. He begged the gift of her^ 

E 3 



54 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

often went to the adjoining marshes, where he be- 
came a proficient in snipe shooting ; or to the more 
distant covers in the warm valleys frequented by the 
woodcock *, a kind of shooting of which he was 
ever afterwards extremely fond. His fishing excur- 
sions were chiefly in spring, when the small streams 
are in the best state for angling — turbid, in a slight 
degree, from the mild rains common in April and 
May, It is remembered how, on the 5th of June, 
1797&gt; he and his companion Mr, Leonard Millett, 
his uncle-in-law, caught seven dozen trouts in a 
rivulet and mill-pond close to the residence of the 
Rev. Edward Giddy, Mr. Davies Gilbert's father, 
in the parish of St. Earth. His early angling was 
like that of Isaac Walton ; he was not then initiated 
into the nobler mysteries of fly-fishing. 

It is stated by Dr. Paris, that he was in the habit 
of declaiming by the sea side " against the howling 
of the wind and waves, for the purpose of correct- 
ing a defect in his voice, which, although only 
slightly perceptible in his maturer age, was, in the 
days of his boyhood, exceedingly discordant." This 
statement, I believe, is unfounded. I have always 
heard his voice spoken of as of an agreeable tone, 
even when he was young. It is true that, like most 



and&gt; by means of great care^ reared her. My sister writes, that^ ^' on 
his first return from Bristol, after an absence of about twelve months, 
Chloe did not remember him till he called her by name, and then she 
was in a transport of joy." Her descendants are now numenms in the 
Mount's Bay, and prized for good qualities. 

* At that time, in Cornwall, little attention was paid to the game 
laws ; eyery one who chose amused himself with a gun, and went in 
pursuit of the minor cacda, birds of passage, such as the woodcock, 
snipe, and water-fowl, without any licence, and without apprehension of 
question. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 5&amp; 

• 

young persons, he was fond of declaiming, and in« 
dulged in it in his walks and solitary rambles. On 
one occasion, it is recorded of him, that, on his way 
to visit a poor patient in the country, in the fervour 
of declamation, he threw out of his hand a vial of 
medicine, which he had to administer, and that, when 
he arrived at the bedside of the poor woman, he was 
surprised at the loss of it. My informant, Mrs. Fox ell 
(to whom he must have related the circumstance), 
adds, that the potion was found next day in a hay** 
field adjoining the path. 

It is also related by Dr. Paris, that he belonged 
to a volunteer corps, and that, though he had private 
lessons from a drill sergeant, he never could emerge 
from the awkward squad, or learn the platoon exercise. 
The story is told by Dr. Paris in his usual precise, 
lively, and comic manner, and the reflection is ap- 
pended, that " he whose electric battery was destined 
to triumph over the animosity of nations, never could 
be taught to shoulder a musket in his native town.'' 
The reflection reminds me of the answer of an Irish- 
man, given in a journal kept by my brother during 
one of his tours in Ireland. " Conversing on the 
Georgium Sidus, one of the company was asked by 
another if he was acquainted with astronomy. He 
replied, • I dare say I might, had I applied to it, for 
no one in our village beat me at the manual ex- 
ercise.' " However, the inccwigruity charged against 
my brother is unfounded, and entirely imaginary, as 
he never was in a volunteer corps. 

Another anecdote given by Dr. Paris is correct; 
viz., that, having been bitten by a dog with the 
symptoms of hydrophobia, my brother cut out the 

E 4 



66 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

• 

lacerated part without hesitation, and applied caustic 
to the wound in his leg. * This is a striking instance 
of that mental intrepidity which he possessed, and 
on many occasions exerted through life — arising, 
not from boldness of nerve or animal courage simply, 
but from the control of mind over body. That 
he believed, at this early period, in the possibility 
of such a controlling power being exercised, I 
do not doubt, and who can? but this is veiy 
different from a sentiment attributed to him by the 
same author, on hearsay — " his disbelief in the 
existence of pain whenever the energies of the mind 
are directed to counteract it ; " a proposition which 
I have no hesitation in rejecting as his, both because 
it is illogical, and because it is associated with a 
ludicrous incident in its enunciation. 

This period of his life was, I believe, a very happy 
one: I mean the last year he spent at Penzance. 
He had become conscious of his own powers of in- 
tellect ; he had an enthusiastic delight in the exercise 
of them ; vast fields of unexplored science opened 

* He told Mr. Southey^ as I have been informed by a friend^ that, 
six months after he was bitten^ he felt some of the premonitory symp.. 
toms of hydrophobia. These^ probably^ were sensations which might 
have occurred to any one^ but would not have attracted the attention of 
any one who had not an apprehension of hydrophobia^ and was not 
anxiously watching his sensations. 

I am tempted^ through the medium of this note^ to give Mr. Southey's 
impression of my brother's early powers ; and I am the more tempted 
to do so^ from the kind manner in which it was expressed. It was in 
conversation that Mr. Southey gave his opinion. I shall transcribe 
from my friend's letter, written just after the interview, his words : — 
" His eyes filled with tears when he said, ^ Davy was a most extract 
ordinary man; he would have excelled in any department of art or 
science to which he had directed the powers of his mind/ " My friend 
said, '^ Might he have been a poet ? " He replied, *' Yes ! he had all 
the elements of a poet. He only wanted the art. I have read beautiful 
verses of his." He added, ^^ When I went to Portugal I left Davy to 
revise and publish my poem of Thalaba." 



SIE HUMPHRY DAVY. 57 

before him. The love of knowledge j the desire of 
distinction; the hope of benefiting mankind; in 
brief, every good motive that can act on a generous 
mind influenced his. Mr. Coulson, who was very 
intimately acquainted with him at this time, was 
strongly impressed with the conviction of his great 
capacity, and also of his nobleness of character. In 
a paper now before me, written by him, he concludes 
with observing that, " had he been left to his bent 
without any disturbing impulse, that is, without the 
connections which he fell into from his peculiar 
situation, he would have exhibited to the world a 
much nobler elevation than even that to which his 
great powers raised him." 

The state of his mind and feelings is pourtrayed 
in vivid characters in one or two passages which I 
have found in his note-books kept during this 
period : — 

" I have neither riches, nor power, nor birth to 
recommend me ; yet, if I live, I trust I shall not be 
of less service to mankind and to my friends than 
if I had been bom with these advantages." And 
this early sentiment never forsook him : even in his 
last days he had a feeling of the same kind, looking 
forward, were his life spared, to greater exertions* 
Another passage I shall give, which I consider ap- 
applicable to him, though I am not sure that he 
wrote it of himself: if the feelings were intended 
for an ideal character, I have no doubt they had 
been experienced in great part by himself. It is a 
fragment amongst fragments : — 

" I gradually became conscious of my powers, by 
comparing them with those of others. That solitary 
enthusiasm, however, which constituted my inde^ 



SS MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

pendence. Was never lost. I was no longer anxious 
to know what others thought of me, and I panted 
little after the breath of fame. Hence, agitated by 
no passion but the love of truth, the desire to see 
things in their real light counteracted every other 
desire. My conversations were plain and simple; 
I perceived that circumstances and the developement 
of my moral powers had produced, or, rather, gradu- 
ally unfolded, a new moral character. It was this 
character that I sought to improve, by casting from 
me every trait of hypocrisy and concealment. I 
considered all my possible relations with men, and 
I found no one which could again possibly turn me 
over to dependence." 

It has been already stated, that, in the short space 
of about four months from the time he commenced 
the study of chemistry, he was in correspondence 
with Dr. Beddoes on the subject of heat and light. 
Soon after. Dr. Beddoes offered him the situation of 
superintendent of the Pneumatic Institution, which 
had been established at Clifton for the purpose of 
trying the medicinal effects of different gases. After 
some negotiation respecting the terms of the appoint- 
ment (in which Mr. Davies Gilbert aided him in a 
very friendly manner), he gladly accepted it, with 
the. consent of all his friends, excepting Mr. John 
Tonkin (who had hoped he would have settled at 
Penzance), and with the approval of Mr. Borlase, 
who (the period of his apprenticeship not being 
expired), in a very generous manner, released him 
from " all engagements whatever, on account of his 
excellent behaviour ;" adding, " because, being a 
youth of great promise, I would not obstruct his 
present pursuits, which are likely to promote his 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 59 

fortune and his fame." This I have copied from 
the back of the indenture now before me, written, 
and signed by Mr. Borlase on the 1st of October, 1798. 
On the following day he left his home, to enter 
upon his public career, before he was twenty years 
old. Even at this time, when starting in life, the 
objects of science were a main consideration with 
him ; and the expectation of having ampler means 
for indulging his love of inquiry was, I believe, the 
chief temptation which prevailed with him to quit 
Penzance, and the prospects which he there had of 
moderate independence. In a letter to Dr. Beddoes, 
written when the engagement was concluded (of 
which I find a portion of the rough draught in one 
of his note-books), he says, " I have now made all 
the experiments I can make here : a very short time 
will arrange and collect them; but this I can do 
better at Clifton than at Penzance.*' 

The undertaking which he entered upon with such 
motives was with him eminently successful, though 
with an ordinary person it would have proved a 
failure. If the Pneumatic Institution had any re- 
putation, it was owing to his exertions in its cause ; 
if it was of any service to medicine or science, it was 
chiefly through his instrumentality; and, however 
useful Dr. Beddoes was to him, he was more so to 
Dr. Beddoes. In this instance, as in most others, 
the obligations he received produced a fruitful 
return. 



60 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 



CHAPTER II. 

ADlTANTAGBS OP HIS SITUATION AT CLIFTON. VERSES ADDRB88ED TO. 

MRS. BEDDOES^ TO HER INFANT DAUGHTER. LETTER TO HIS 

teOTHER ON QUITTING HOME. HiB ESSAYS ON HEAT AND LIGHT. 

DISOOVERY OF 8ILEX IN THE EPIDERMIS OF GRASSES. PURSUITS^ 

CHFiMICAL AND LITERARY, AT THIS PERIOD OF HIS LIFE. HIS 

RESEARCHES, CHEMICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL, CHIEFLY CONCERNING 

NITROUS OXIDE AND ITS RESPIRATION. LETTERS TO HIS FAMILY. 

REVISITS HOME. LINES ON THE OCCASION. EXTRACTS FROM HIS 

NOTE-BOOKS, SHOWING HIS VARIED PURSUITS, AND MODES OF SENTI- 
MENT AND THOUGHT. FRAGMENTS OF A POEM. HAPPY LIFE AND 

ASPIRATIONS. ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN. LETTER 

TO HIS MOTHER ON AN OFFERED APPOINTMENT IN IT^ WHICH HE 
ACCEPTS. 

The period of my brother's life on which we are 
tiow about to enter, that which he spent at Clifton, 
is the most important in relation to himself, if not 
the most interesting in his eventful career. If the 
situation he had accepted of superintendent of the 
Pneumatic Institution had been created purposely 
for him, it could not have been more suitable to the 
bent of his genius, or better adapted for calling into 
activity and developing fully the powers of his mind ; 
and the collateral circumstances generally were not 
less auspicious. The society he mixed with, Dr. 
Beddoes's family, of which he became an inmate, 
and even the scenery by which he was surrounded, 
all contributed to exercise a favourable influence 
over him. 

The Pneumatic Institution owed its rise to Dr. 
Beddoes. It was supported entirely by subscrip- 
tion ; the subscribers to it were chiefly liberal men 
of science, and the intention of founding it was to 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 61 

afford an opportunity of giving a fair trial to the 
medicinal effects of the different gases, with the san* 
guine hope then indulged in, started and supported 
by Dr. Beddoes, that powerful remedies might be 
found amongst them ; that diseases hitherto bidding 
defiance to medical art, by means of them might be 
cured or relieved ; and that, in the investigation of 
their operation, light would be thrown on many 
obscure parts of physiology, to the great benefit of 
medical science, both in regard to practice and 
theory. Such was the design of the institution, which 
was to be provided with all the means likely to pro- 
mote it — an hospital for patients, a laboratory for 
experimental research, and a theatre for lecturing. 

Dr. Beddoes himself was a very remarkable man, 
admirably fitted to promote inquiry, better than to 
conduct it. To give the reader an insight into his 
character, I shall introduce here a sketch of him, 
written by my brother in the last year of his life, 
when, a valetudinarian, he amused himself with look-* 
ing back on his old friends and acquaintances, and 
in describing the most distinguished of them : — " Bed- 
does was reserved in manner, and almost dry; but 
his countenance was very agreeable. He was cold 
in conversation, and apparently much occupied with 
his own peculiar views and theories. Nothing could 
be a stronger contrast to his apparent coldness in 
discussion, than his wild and active imagination, 
which was as poetical as Darwin's. He was little en- 
lightened by experiment, and, I may say, little attentive 
to it. He had great talents, and much reading, but 
had lived too little amongst superior men. On his 
death-bed he wrote me a most affecting letter, re- 
gretting his scientific aberrations. I remember one 



6^ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

expression r * Like one who has scattered abroad the 
aoena fattui of knowledge, from which neither 
branch, noi^ blossom, nor fruit has resulted, I require 
the consolations of a fi-iend/ Beddoes had talents 
which would have exalted him to the pinacle of 
philosophical eminence, if they had been applied 
with discretion." 

Dr. Beddoes*s family was a very agreeable one : it 
owed its chief charm to its mistress. Mrs. Beddoes 
I have always heard spoken of as a very delightful 
person, especially by my brother, who had a sincere 
regard and esteem for her, and ever after a grateful 
feeling of her kindness. Beauty, virtue, grace, wit, 
judgment, and knowledge appear to have been com* 
bined in admirable harmony in this charming woman. 
I will not deprive myself of the pleasure of inserting 
here a copy of verses addressed to this lady, written 
by him some years after: there is this brief notice 
attached to them : — " Glenarm, August, 1806, by 
moonlight, a view of the cliff and sea." They record 
powerftiUy her beneficial influence over his mind, 
and are a beautiful and touching tribute to her 
worth, and a testimony of virtuous friendship : — 

^&lt; Think not that I forget the days, 

VHien firsts through rough unhaunted ways^ 
We moved along the mountain dde^ 
Where Avon meets the Severn tide ; 
When in the spring of youthful thought 
The hours of confidence we caught. 
And Nature's children, free and wild^ 
Rejoiced^ or grieved^ or frown'd, or smiled^ 
As wayward fancy chanced to move 
Our hearts to hope, or fear, or love. 

'^ Since that time of transient pleasure 
Eight long years have fill'd their measure. 
And scenes and ohjects grand and new 
Have crowded on my dazzled view ; — 



ce 



t&lt; 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 63 

Visions of beanty^ types of heayen, 
Unask'd-for kindness freely given ; 
Art^ Nature^ in their noblest dress^ — 
The city and the wilderness ; 
The world in all its varying forms^ 
Contentments^ clouds^ ambition's storms. 

Yet still in such a busy scene^ 
And such a period pass'd between^ 
The recollections never die 
Of our early sympathy : 
And in the good Uiat warms my heart 
Your friendship bears a living part; 
With many a diought and feeling twined 
Of influence healthy^ noble^ kind ; 
Virtues from your example caught^ 
And without saws or precept taught. 

The proof this tranquil moment gives 
How vivid the remembrance lives ; 
For e'en in Nature's forms I see 
Some strong memorials of thee : 
The autumnal foliage of the woodj 
The tranquil flowing of the floods 
The down with purple heath o'erspread^ 
The awful cliff's gigantic head, 
The moonbeam on the azure sky, 
Are Uended with thy memory." 

I will also indulge myself with giving another 
copy of verses, on the infant daughter of his friends 
Dr. and Mrs. Beddoes, in whom I hope all the wishes 
he expresses have been realised : — 

'^ Sweet blossom of the early spring of life^ 
Thy opening lineaments in hope I view ; 
And as I think on thy maturer age^ 
I form a fairy dream^ and wish it true. 

'^ I see those cheeks now pale as are the clouds 
Which in the water'd vale at evening lie, 
Kindling with rosy hues of happy healthy 
And glowing like th' autumnal evening sky. 



C( 



I see those locks that now have scarcely reach'd 
Thy forehead's smoothness^ and thy neck of snow. 

In darkest hues of beauty's contrast dad. 
In graceful ringlets down thy shoulders flow. 



64^ MEMOIRS OP THE LIP£: OF 



(t 



iC 



I flee those eyes» wbith now impaarire gaze, 
beaming with softness and unchanging lights 

Kindling with holy feeling's hrilliant rays^ 
And in estpfession's liquid lightnings bright. 

I hear the accents which thy infant voice 

Essays in murmurs of imperfect art. 
Expressing^ in the clearest, sweetest tones^ 

Thy fadier's mind^ and all thy mother's heart." 

The society of Clifton at this time, of which Dn 
Beddoes's house may be considered as the gathering 
point, was more literary and intellectual than usual. 
Many men of genius resided there, or in Bristol, or 
made it a place of frequent resort. The most dis- 
tinguished amongst the number, Mr. Southey, Mr. 
Coleridge, and Mr. Tobin, had very little the ad- 
vantage of my brother in age ; they were entering 
with eager emulation on the course of glory ; he 
formed their acquaintance and obtained their friend- 
ship ; and though the great objects of his pursuit 
were of a scientific nature, yet he found time to take 
a part with them in labours purely literary. 

As the reputation of the Pneumatic Institution 
increased, men of rank and science, from various 
motives, either of health or curiosity, visited it from 
a distance, and afforded him an opportunity of form- 
ing many valuable acquaintances. I shall mention 
only one in particular, Mr. Poole, of Nether Stowey, 
in Somersetshire, whose acquaintance with him began 
here^ and soon ripened into a friendship, cherished 
by both ever after, and the memory of which is dtill 
dear to the survivor. 

Having * made these observations on the circum- 
stances of his new situation, I shall now enter in 
more minute detail into his history ; and to give the - 
reader an idea of his first impressions on coming out 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 65 

into the world, I here transcribe a letter which he 
wrote to his mother soon after his arrival at Clifton, 
trusting that no one will criticise as a literary com- 
position what was a hasty effusion, intended solely 
for a mother's reading. It is happily descriptive of 
the joyous state of a youthful mind, of its surprise 
at new objects, and the facility with which it is 
pleased : — 

'* October 11th, 1798. Clifton. 

" My dear Mother, 

*^ I have now a little leisure time, and I am about 
to employ it in the pleasing occupation of com- 
municating to you an account of all the new and 
wonderfiil events that have happened to me since my 
departure. 

."I suppose you received my letter, written in a 
great hurry last Sunday, informing you of my safe 
arrival, and kind reception. I must now give you a 
more particular account of Clifton, the place of my 
residence, and of my new friends. Dr. and Mrs. Bed- 
does, and their family. 

&lt;&lt; Clifton is situated on the top of a hill, command- 
ing a view of Bristol and its neighbourhood, con- 
veniently elevated above the dirt and noise of the 
city. Here are houses, rocks, woods, town and 
country in one small spot; and beneath us, the 
sweetly flowing Avon, so celebrated by the poets. 
Indeed, there can hardly be a more beautiful spot : 
it almost rivals Penzance, and the beauties of 
Mount's Bay. 

&lt;&lt; Our house is capacious and handsome; my rooms 
are very large, nice and convenient ; and, above all, 
I have an excellent laboratory. Now for the in- 
habitants, and, first, Dr. Beddoes, who, between you 

VOL. I. p 



06 ME^tfOlBfi OF THE hlWR OF 

and me, is one of the most original men I ever saw-^ 
uncommonly short and fat, with little elegance of 
manners, and nothing characteristic estemally of ge- 
nius or science ; extremely silent, and, in a few words, 
a y^ry bad companion. His behaviour to me, however, 
has been particularly handsome. He has paid me the 
highest compliments on my discoveries, and has, in 
feet, become a convert to my theory, which I little 
expected. He has given up to me the whole of the 
business of the Pneumatic Hospital, and has sent to 
the editor of the Monthly Magazme a letter, to be 
published in November, in which I have the honour 
to be mentioned in the highest terms. Mrs. Beddoes 
is the reverse of Dr. Beddoes — extremely cheerful, 
gay, and witty; she is one of the most pleasing women 
I ever met with. With a cultivated understandiiig, 
and an excellent heart, she combines an uncommon 
lumplicity of manners. We are already very great 
friends. She has taken me to see all the fine scenery 
about Clifton ; for the Doctor, from his occupations 
and his bulk, is unable to walk much* In the house 
are two sons, and a daughter of Mr. Lambton, very 
fine children, from five to thirteen years of age. 

&lt;&lt;I have visited Mr. Hare, one of the principal sub^ 
scribers to the Pneumatic Hospital, who treated me 
with great politeness. I am now very much engaged 
in considering of the erection of the Pneumatic Ho&amp;* 
pital, and the mode of conducting it I shall go 
down to Birmingham to see Mr. Watt and Mr. Keir 
in about a fortnight, where I shall probably remain 
a week or ten days ; but before then you will again 
hear from me. We are just going to print at Cottle's, 
in Bristol, so that my time will be much taken up, 
the ensuing fortnight, in preparations for the press. 
The theatre for lecturing is not yet open ; but, if I 



sm HUMniRT OAV¥* 67 

cm get a large room in Bristol, and subscribers^ I 
intend to give a course of chemical lectures, as Dr. 
fieddoes seems much to wish it. 

*' My journey up was uncommonly pleasant ; I had 
the good fortune to travel all the way with acquaint* 
ances. I came into Exeter in a most joyful time, the 
celebration of Nelson's victory. The town was beau- 
tifully illuminated, and the inhabitants loyal and 
happy. I was so pleased with Mr. Russel and his 
family, and some other of the inhabitants to whom I 
was introduced, as to stay there two days, which I 
chiefly spent with Mr. Russel. The morning after 
the illumination I rode round Exeter with Mr. Russel, 
and was wonderfully delighted with the country, 
which is the most beautiful and the most highly cuU 
tivated of any I have yet seen. 

&lt;* It will give you pleasure when I inform you that 
all my expectations are answered, and that my situ* 
ation is just what I could wish. But, for all this, I 
very often think of Penzance and my friends, with 
an^sh to be there: however, that time will come« 
We are some time before we become accustomed to 
new modes of living and new acquaintances. 
^^ Believe me, your affectionate Son, 

** Humphry Davy,'* 

Let us follow him now in his piu-suits. The first 
labour he engaged in when he was established at 
Clifton, which requires to be particularly noticed, 
was the finishing and putting in order for publica- 
tion his researches on heat and light, already more 
than once alluded to. They were given to the 
public in the form of essays, in a miscellaneous 
volume, edited by Dr. Beddoes, in 1799f called 

F 2 



68 M£MOIE3^ OF THE hlTZ OF 

&lt;♦ Contributions to Physical and Medical Kuqwri 
ledge, principally from the West of England j*' ai^^d 
weire named "Essays on Heat and Light, i^pdi Jhe 
Combinations of Light j with a new Theory pf Ri^ 
spiratipn; on the Generation of 0«yg^. Gas^iaj^ui 
the Causes of the Colours of organic 3eing3, B^ 
Humphry Davy/' They extended to 205, pag^ 
and were dedicated to Dr. Beddoes and to the sub-^ 
scribers to the Pneumatic Institution. &gt; 

As his first publication, they require particular 
Botice, and the more so, as they are in many xe^ 
spects. peculiar. The very title of the essays^ I may 
remark, is not uncharacteristic of them. They arie 
the bold attempts of an original and enterprising 
mind,, and bear the stamp, at the same time, of youth 
and of genius, in the faults of the one, and the re- 
deeming qualities of the other. They are marked 
by invention, by a certain strength and logical pre* 
cision of reasoning power, and by much ingenuity 
both of ideas and experiments; and they are ^Iso 
marked by the want of caution, and the precipitancy 
of a very young man, which sometimes appears as a 
defect of modesty. 

In a former part of this work, when specifying the 
time and circumstances under which my brother 
commenced the study of chemistry, I promised to 
.luring forward proofs of the statement which I th^ 
made j and I shall do so now, for they are conneqte(| 
y9}th ihese essays. Dr. Beddoes, in a paper " Ojx th,e 
Arrangjemept of Bodies according to their Principle^,,*' 
in the same volume, declares himself a convert tp 
my brother's " discoveries'* (so he calls them) ; and 
adopts even the nomenclature which he had pro- 
|)osed. The foUpwing passage in this paper^ though 



sill HUMPHRY DAVY. 69* 

4 

lo6g,' is too important in relation to the obgect I 
MVe in Vie^ to be withheld : — 
' Df; Beddoes sjiys, " Long before I was acquainted 
witb those discoveries or Count Rumfbrd's experi- 
ntthts on fHction, 1 had expunged the matter ofheat^ 
of'caloifii;^ from my chemical system; and on this 
obcftsion it is but justice to attest, that the author of 
tlite foiiner derived no assistance whatever from the 
Count's ingenious labours. My first knowledge of 
him arose from a letter written in April 1798, con- 
taining an account of his researches on heat and 
light ; and his first knowledge of Count Rumfbrd*s 
paper was conveyed by my answer. The two essays 
contain prooft enough of an original mind, to mak^ 
it credible that the simple and decisive experiments 
on heat were independently conceived. Nor is it 
hecessary, in excuse or in praise of his system, to 
^d, that, at the time it was formed, the author 
Iras under twenty years of age, pupil to a surgeon- 
apothecary, in the most remote town of Cornwall, 
with little access to philosophical books, and none 
at all to philosophical men." And this statement of 
Dr. Beddoes is confirmed by remarks which I have 
Found in my brother's note-books. In August, 1799&gt; 
hei writes, " About twenty months ago, I began the 
^ifudy of chemistry. The system of Lavoisier, almost 
the only elementary book in my possession, was the 
fii^st that I studied. In that systetn, an imaginary 
b6ing^, called caloric, engaged my attention. I con- 
sidered he had too much neglected light ; and this 
gteat source of our sensations engaged my attention,** 
Sc. Aod in the same note-book, just before, alluding 
l6 Aiese essays, and the manner in which they were 
aftabked by the reviewers, he writes, ** These critics 

F 3 



70 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

perhaps do not understand that these experiments were 
made when I had studied chemistry only four months^ 
when I had never seen a single experiment executed^ 
and when all my information was derived from 
Nicholson's Chemistry, and Lavoisier's Elements." 

Having premised thus much in relation to the 
circumstances under which these essays were written^ 
I shall now endeavour to give the reader some idea 
of them, and, by means of extracts, some notion of 
his style of writing at this early period. 

After having made some general remarks on the 
progress of scientific discovery, and the increasing 
energy of the human mind in the pursuit of science, 
he commences in an impressive manner the subject 
of his inquiry : — • 

«* Light," he observes, " has been heretofore little 
considered in chemical theory: its affinities have 
never been investigated. A substance of the greatest 
importance to organic existence has been very little 
r^arded but in a physical view, as a stimulus, and 
as the source of the most numerous and pleasurable 
of our sensations. 

" The planetary motions, those wonderful pheno- 
mena, and the laws by which they are governed, 
appear to be designed for the express purpose of 
supplying the whole of the solar system with a 
certain necessary quantity of light. ' 

«* The general analogy of nature, the wonderful 
simplicity of causes, and the complexity of effects, 
would alone tend to prove that this substance is sub« 
i^ervient to other purposes than those of vision and 
vegetation. Since light and heat are usually con-* 
comitant, since there is rarely a considerable degree 
of the one without the other, philosophers have 



Sia HUMPHRY DiLVT« 71 

questioned whether they are not cause and efiect ; 
and M» Lavoisier is one of these philosophers* He 
saySy &lt; La lumi^re est^Ue une modification du 
calorique, oa bien le calorique est^il une modification 
de la lumi^re ?^ I have made an experiment, which- 
seems to demonstrate directly that light is not a 
modification or an effect of heat. 

** Experiment I.--- A small gun-lock was procured^ 
armed with an excellent flint This lock was ele^ 
vatedy by means of two iron springs^ on the stand 
of the receiver of an air-pump. A slight iron wire 
was affixed to the trigger, brought through a hole 
made in the centre of the stand, and cemented into 
the hole with wax, so as to exclude entirely atmo- 
spheric air from the receiver. The receiver was 
exhausted, and the lock snapped, but no light was 
produced. The receiver was filled with carbonic 
acid, and the lock again snapped with the same 
result: no light was produced. Small particles 
were separated from the steel, which, on microscopic 
examination, evidently appeared to have undergone 
fusion.*' 

He adds, reasoning on this result, *-^ 

^&lt; If light was a modification, or an effect, of heat, 
it must have been produced in this experiment, since 
the heat generated by collision was sufficient to fuse 
steel ; '' and he concludes, — 

&lt;&lt; Light, then, cannot be caloric in a state of pro^ 
jection, but matter of a peculiar kind, capable, when 
moving through space with the greatest velocity, of 
becoming the source of a numerous class of our 
sensations." 

From light he proceeds to the phenomena of 
repulsion in opposition to those of attraction, and 

F 4 



f^ MEMQUB •F.rESR LIFE. OF 

the oef&amp;fdlaw of'fitunKHkieiia depending fofonaim* 
tatialipBndjfl6it]uu^.thedthervand t^ the existencci 
eSaivfpoiSaimsMir id heat^ .called caloric^ ia ^Miikned 
aBdbimagiodrjrA* j. .• &gt; v*&gt; :i &gt;/ mu 

s.:I «A8t jrefer the sdctntific/ reader to'^tbe (6«dty 
k»eif for the: atgiuneiits nrhich i he IniiigB : 'fiinirard 
againstrthi^^ doctrine, and which he&gt; suppcxts by some 
irery iogemoua experiments^ referred to bjr Dn Bed^ 
dpCi9 ^a$&gt; similar to Count Emnford's. on the same 
abbj^ct^ and whidi have not yet. been answered in a 
9iitiilfact0ffy manner by .tbose who maintain the aub»* 
4tailtjal nature of heat. ^ ^ 

JiiUft^J^CKt treats of light as a peculiar substance ; in 
ils Tsensible .state endowed with a high degree of 
K^uisive motion, and yet subject to the laws of 
abbvactiQii in common with other ^cies of matter, 
by means of. which it enters into combination with 
tbem^&lt;&gt;^loosely in those bodies which are .phoi^dxi^ 
rascooft,— rintimately with one body, namely, oxygen* 
This compound of light and oxygene is supposed 
cssqnabie of combining unaltered with some bodies^ 
£($ .nitriDigen, muriatic acid, and certain metals; and 
tf)i be :decompo6ed by other bodies, which it is sup* 
posed, on uniting with the oxygen, separate the lights? 
gju^cng.nae . to the phenomena of combastiooi. /Fbis^ 
portion of the essay extends from page 89. tb I'SJTiil 
andr is&gt;'.very retnarkable both in regard tD Jtbe ^x- 
pennuaits,. &lt; speculation^ and reasoning. , la further^ 
iHuMration, J. shall make a few more extracts from^ 
iiVti3'ml&lt;'ohiefly firom the .speculative parts, as- moat 
^arineteiistic* &gt; At page 46. he makes some bold; 
^0ieatJiineS]fesp^tng&gt; the identity of light and the 
^bdtcioi fluid. &lt; He jajs^ **&lt; The^ electric &lt; fluid &gt;m&lt; pro^' 



liabljoy^itJiQfjaiooncteiiaed'fitMBj; liixbisi^tiotfmpiilied 
indh itbe jf q)ubiiiie notionisaficieiit ^oigi ve it &lt;repolsi'r6 
piMSjifGikmi ItB;o1kemk^aotk&gt;niiipoii bodies k'fimito 
tQvthfttri&gt;o€ ligiKt ; jaDd;wwh/3a)du|iplied.&lt;with lepiilA^te 
motion by friction, or the contact of 'bodie»i fiMtt 
yliiGfa itilisi cs^jdbiei o£ sobtracting it, it ttkm the 
Iqpolsiiie pjjigettUei fomiy and: becomes perceptible as 
Hght^ ' It i» iQxtremely probiiUe that the* great quan* 
tlty&lt; of thifiv floid almost evisry wherc diffosed.on ooir 
oacth is produced fvom the condensation (^* lights 
fi-om the subtraction of its repulsive motion, by black 
or ^ dark bodies. .This fluid, continually formed flrom 
the condensation of light, is probably again supplied- 
with repulsive motion at the poles, by the revolution 
d£ the earth on its axis, and given off in the form of 
iiepalsive projectile light ; whilsta quantity equal' to^ 
tli^t' given off from its equilibrating prindpie is snp^ 
plied continually from other .parts of the globe.' 
Iiem2e&lt; the phenomena c^ the aurora borealis, on 
mMthem lights. No more sublime ideacim 'be 
finrmed.of the -motions of matter, than to conceive 
Ij^afeithe /different species are continually changing 
iota each other. The gravitative, the mecimnical, 
ai)d the repulsive motions appear to be oontinuaill3r 
inutually producing each odier, and from these 
olttilgesiall.tbe phenomena of the mutation of mftttett 
prpbably arise.'* . . . , .^ 

^v In. the following page he asks, ^&lt; Is ^ not the blue 
oelttirof^theair a proof that 'the repulsive moticmi 
(K^ligbt is diminished in passing through .it? -^^ayi 
nei the. atmospheric temperature,* and the refitax^tiont 
(fe£;l]ghl: through it, be in a great measure owing to» 
thei waiter heid in solution by the:air?^r&lt;--aii infereaiei^ 
Bomgenisrallp admitted. ' At pc^e^SG. be^nside# 



'74 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

hydrogen and nitrogen gas as &lt;^ probably metals 
in the state of elastic vapour/' At page 68. and 97* 
he points out some of the incongruities of the Lavoi- 
Sierian hypothesis of combustion ) for example^ in&lt;« 
Stances of the condensation of gases iii entering 
into chemical union with diminution of capacity fof 
heat) without the production of heat ; and^ vice t^ersdf 
the conversion o€ solids into elastic fluids, as in the 
decomposition of the detonating compounds, with 
increase of capacity for heat, without the production 
of coldi but, on the contrary^ the production of heat# 
At page 127* he supposes that light enters into 
the composition of living bodies, is essential to theif 
well-being, and is derived by means of respiration« 
He supposes that phosoxygen (light and oxygen) 
is not decomposed in the lungs, but combines there 
with venous blood, whilst carbonic acid and water 
are liberated. This view of respiration he supports 
by various experiments, and connects with specula* 
tions of a very lofty kind — speculations which, con^ 
sidered merely as such, are deserving rather of praise 
for their boldness and originality, than of the censure 
which has usually been bestowed on them : portions 
of them may be deserving of insertion. At page 
140. he asks, &lt;* May we not venture to reason on the 
important and constant change effected in the braio 
and nerves by the phosoxydated blood ? Is it not 
probable that the existence of some fine ethereal 
principle in the brain and nerves is the immediate 
cause of sensitive or perceptive action? If such 
a fluid exists, it must be continually supplied by 
the arterial blood, and constantly expended in sens^* 
ible action.*' This idea, I may observe, he never 
totally relinquished, and it appears in his last work 



SIR HUMPHftY DATT. ^S 



M wdl as his first In the &lt;&lt; Omsdations iti 
Trave]/' in the Fourth Dialogue, when on th^ 
subject of respiration, after having given an ac- 
count of the appreciable chemical changes belongs 
ing to this function, he proceeds, — &lt;* But it is pro* 
bable that this is only a secondary object, and that 
the change produced by respiration on the blood \A 
of a much more important kind'* (that is, than thd 
mere separating of a certain quantity of carbonaceous 
matter). ^* Oxygen, in its elastic state, has pro* 
perties which are very characteristic: it gives out 
light by compression, which is not certainly known 
to be the case with any other elastic fluid, except 
those with which oxygen has entered, without vau 
dergoing combustion \ and, from the fire it produces 
in certain processes, and from the manner in which 
it is separated by positive electricity, in the gaseous 
state, from its combinations, it is not easy to avoid 
the supposition, that it contains, besides its ponder^^ 
able elements, some very subtile matter, which is 
capable of assuming the form of heat and light Mjf 
idea is, that the common air inspired enters into the 
venous blood entire in a state of dissolution, carrying 
with it its subtile or ethereal part, which, in ordinary 
cases of chemical change, is given off; that it expels 
from the blood carbonic acid gas and azote; and 
that, in the course of the circulation, its ethereal part, 
and its ponderable part, undergo changes which 
belong to laws that cannot be considered as chemical: 
the ethereal part probably producing animal heat and 
other effects, and the ponderable part contributing to 
form carbonic acid and other products. The arterial 
blood is necessary to all the functions of life, and it 
is no less connected with the irritability of the 



76 MElffOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

mudcles ^nd the sensibility of the nerves, thkn ^priChf 
tUe pecformatice of all the secretions.'^ 
i^ liti Faffis^ giving an account of these essays, adi&gt; 
vBoqea a- very similar opinion on the use of ^ respira^ 
tiion, and even calls it his own* His words are, '* lU 
it.iiilreasonable to conclude that some principle is 
thus itnparted, which is too subtile to be long^ r6^ 
tained in our vessels, and too important to be dis^ 
pensed with even for the shortest period?" And hei 
iuids, as if entirely ignorant of these essays, ** I ofibif 
jthis opinion, as Montaigne says, not as being good,^ 
but w' being my own !*** 

^ My; brother concludes his first essay with the fol- 
lowing remarks: -*- '* We may consider the sun and 
the fixed stars the suns of other worlds, as immense 
iesecroirs^ of light, destined by the great Organiser 
tb.diffiuse over the univere organisation and anima- 
tion. And thus will the laws of gravitation, as well 
as IJie. chemical laws, be considered as subject to one 
great end -^ perception. Reasoning thus, it will not 
appear improbable that oiie law alone may govern 
wdL'tspt upon matter, — an energy of mutation im* 
pressed by the will of the Deity, — a law which may 
bfe' called the law of animation, tending to produce 
ihe^greatesti possible sum of perception^ the greatest 
|K)^ibki'Sum of happiness. 

/^ SDhe funhi^r^we investigate the phenomena of 
ilKKik^'tbe ^ttiore we discover simplicity and nftity 
of design : an extensive field for sublime investiga^ 
tipn is open to us. The laws of perceptive life iu» yet 

^q^,^ut Vp^ti^ly^ known: our seasations, ideaa^ 
pioatoawsi' and'pafin» depend upon c&amp;uses now un- 

t^^k^lSS^ Dnvy," *ta, p.50. 



SW HUMPHBY PAVT« 77 

l^awn U&gt; usi: We cannot enteptoin a dobbt bot tbiA^ 
every change in our sensations BOBtd ideas^ must ^bia 
accompanied with some corresponding change in the 
Orgapio matter of the body. Thete changes expem 
mental inYestigation may enable us to determine c 
by discovering them we should be informed of thb 
Lstws of' okxr exiatence, and probaUy enabled, in^lEi 
great measure, to destroy our pains and increase our 
pleasures. Thus would chemistry, in its connectkm 
with the laws of life, become the most sublime and 
important of all scienjces." 

His second essay, " On the Generation of Ox^en,^ 
and the Cause of the Colours of Organic Bbihgs,'' 
requires to be noticed but briefly. It may be cod^ 
sidered as an appendix to the first essay; an* amplii 
fication c^* a part of it, giving in detsdl a series of 
experiments on the effects of solar light on terrtistHal^ 
marine, and aquatic plants under vaiioos circnm-i 
stances; confirming the results of preceding inquicefB 
that vegetables, whether growing in the atmoapherq^ 
9r in the still lake, or the disturbed shallowa of tlfe 
Sf^ or rapid river, acted on by lights have the |k&gt;1vi^ 
of decomposing carbonic acid and disengaging oxygen^ 
^4 o^ ^^^^ counteracting and balancing the^fleoM 
iffikQ. xespiratiQp. jof.animals and of cQmbwtion^ and 
of preserving the air of the atm^lierei and tba(| 
^bigj^.^,. dissolved in. the water of the^ooe^nj SA a 
ulp^prm wholesome: state, best adapted for ^oii^^liiMd 

^^ AH ingenious inquirer^ Mr. fiUis^ bus expressed doajbt pf ,the 
pamtliyojfiSfiAg iflAoence of Tegetation oh th&amp; «tliiddp|erel;'^t b^ 
w^^ih^^wij)g.pJ«njts.4ib.iiQt Y«||ieMiaatii»(t|i|B ^p^^^ff^^ti^itigiHl 
by coinbining with a portion of its oxygen^ than purify it by the de. 
composition of carbonic add in the sap^ and the liberation of, oxygen; 
under the opeatition of ligh^ on the green letf.- Such a doubt appears 



^S MEM0IR9 0? THE LIFB OF 

This investigation, like the preceding, was com« 
menced at Penzance, and finished at Bristol, It was 
one of the first subjects of inquiry, if not the very 
first, which he attemped to elucidate by experiment ; 
and it appears that his earliest experiments were 
made on marine plants, having been led by analogy 
to infer that they perform in the sea the same part 
for aquatic animals that terrestrial plants had pre« 
viously been supposed to do for land animals ~* the 
important part of renovating the oxygen consumed 
in the function of respiration ; and the confirmation 
of this analogy was, I believe, the first discovery he 
made in chemical science* 

The latter part of this second essay on the causes 
c^ the colours of organic beings may be considered 
as a third appendix to his first essay, in which he 
more minutely examines the effects of light in relation 
to the colours of plants and animals ; and, by ex* 
periment and observation, arrives at the conclusion 
that light is mainly concerned in the evolution of 
colour, both in the vegetable and animal kingdom* 
This is, at least, the inference which he draws, but 



to me incompalable with seyeral drcamstances. I will not dwell on 
experiments, though they appear to me conclusiye against such doubt; 
I particalarly allude to the experiments of M. d# Saussure, many of 
wHek 1 hare repeated with the same results, on the effisct &lt;^ healtliy 
vegetation continued for several days, attended with increase of oxygen 
in the air: I would rather dwell on the immense accumuktions of 
eaxtion, as exhibited in forests and peat-mosaes^ and beds of coid of 
decidedly vegetable origin. How could these accumulations have takei^ 
place, excepting by the decomposition of carbonic acid derived from 
the atmosphere, brought down dissolved in rain or dew ? These great 
experiments of Nature, without presumption, may be said to exclude 
all doubt. The aoeumulation of so much carbon in a vegetable, whe^ 
dier n the lichen on the rock destitute of soil, or in the forest tree, 
glowing in a soil enriched widi vegetable matter by liie fall of the ktf, 
inay jbe considered equivalent to the addition of a proportional quantity 
ef orygen to the atmosphere. 



SIE HUMPHRY DAVY. 79. 

which he expresses in a more hypothetical maimer, 
using a nomenclature which he had prematmrely and 
unnecessarily adopted. 

I cannot leave these essays without offering some 
further remarks on them. Many of the speculations 
in which they abound, it must be allowed, were wild 
and visionary ; and yet the wildest of them are most 
natural to a young mind just entering on the twilight 
of physical science, gifted with high powers, and a 
vivid imagination ; and I have no doubt that every 
young person similarly situated has experienced as« 
pirations of the same kind. In the infancy of science 
itself, there were the same workings of the mind, the 
same yearning after unattainable knowledge and 
power : astrology was the result of it in the con-&gt; 
templation q£ the heavenly bodies ; alchemy was de« 
rived from it in the laboratory ; and magic ftom the 
study of natural science generally. Moreover, the 
period of his youth was one of peculiar excitement 
and innovation : the leaven of the French revoku 
tion was still fermenting ; the mysterious phenomena 
of galvanism had recently been brought to Hght j 
the muscles of animals, apparently dead, had been 
made to contract by the new influence, as if re^ 
animated ; and pneumatic chemistry had just then 
been called to the aid of medicine, with a confident 
expectation of wonderful effects, which deluded men 
of the soundest minds, and which could be corrected 
only by experience. It is not remarkable, then, 
making allowance for these circumstances, that he 
thus indulged in speculation ; but it is very remark-^ 
able how soon he liberated himself from the enchant- 
ing thraldom which has bound many for life, and how 
9ver afterwards, intent on truth alone, he directed 



89 MEMOIRS OE THK LIV£ OF 

hia coulee through the boundless regions of sdeiice^ 
which he eacplored free from the influence of all de* 
Ipsion. He writes of himself, — 

» 

« I began thQ pursuit of chemistry by apecul^oua 
i^d. theories : more mature reflection convinced me 
0^ my. errors, of the limitation of our powers, the 
d^u^pr of false generalisations, and of the difficulty 
of forming true ones/' This I find written in darker 
ink, between the lines of a note-book kept in 1799ff 
consisting chiefly of speculative views concerning the 
connection of life and chemical action, or of phy- 
siology and chemistry. In after-life, and, indeed, 
very soon after the publication of these essays, he 
was severe, and, it appears to me, even in an .undue 
degree, in censuring their faults. Dr. Hope has told 
vcke that, in one of the first conversations which they 
had together at Clifton, he expressed himself very 
strongly on this subject, and declared that he would 
jpyfuUy relinquish any little glory or reputation which 
he n^ght have acquired by his later researches^ were 
it pps^ible to withdraw these essays, and remove the 
impressicm which he fancied then they were likely to 
produce. This condemnation of them by himself 
was very characteristic of a sensitive and ingenuous- 
nijind, which is always most severe on its own faultSjj 
and is often more benefited by reflecting on them, 
than even by contemplating the most brilliant ex-, 
afnplef of excellence in others. 
[ With all their faults of hasty speculation^ of partial ♦ 
rfiai^onin^ and, in very many instances, erroneous 
experii^entSi I cannot help thinking that posterity 
wil^ pass yn these essays a sentence different from 
t^ail of their author, and would, on no account,, 
hi^l^e ^them plotted out from the records of science i , 



sm ^UMPHAY DAvy» 6t 

llife is fhe true test of their value, and of their de* 
[Serving, not the unqualified censure which some 
critics have bestowed on them, but the qualified 
praise which fliey who know how difficult is the in- 
vestigatiori and'discovery of truth, and th6 navigation 
dl the oceatl of science, will most willingly givte. ' I 
^rceive that Dr. Paris, in his work, is not one of the 
last class of critics alluded to. After adopting one 
of my brother's views relating to the use of respinsu' 
tion, and calling it his own, as already mentioned, he 
breaks out in no measured terms of disapprobation, 
and says, that ** the theory of phosoxygen and lumi- 
nated phosoxygen has scarcely a parallel in extra- 
vagance and absurdity:'' such terms do not appear 
to me to be at all applicable to the theory rn' ques- 
tion. The hypothesis was bold, but not absurd : it 
might be true, and we do not know but parts of it 
are true. 

The chief fault of these essays is the hastiness of 
the generalisation, and the apparent presumption 
indicated by it ; and this it was, I believe, that the 
author had most pain in reflecting on. He soon 
fbdnd out how vain is mere speculation, and th^t' 
thith can only be attained by patient and laborious 
irfvestigation ; in brief, he soon became in the strictest ^ 
sebse, an inductive philosopher. Indeed, I am dis- 
pc^&amp;d to think that, in consequence of the publication ' 
of these essays, he almost immediately acquired, and * 
fAt'*i short time felt, even an undue aCversfoti to 
hViiotfiesis. Bearing the date of August of the same^ 
y^ar In which the essays appeared, there is the follow- ' 
iig reflection in his note-book : — " When I consider 
the^ variety of theories that may be formed on the . 
sfeiSder fbutidatioh of one or two facts, 1 am'^cbh* 

VOL. I. G 



8£ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

vinced that it is the business of the true philosopher 
to avoid them altogether. It is more laborious to 
accumulate facts than to reason concerning them; 
but one good experiment is of more value than the 
ingesiuity of a brain like Newton's/' In the same 
note4)ook, and written about the same time as the 
pmceding, alluding to his essays, he says, ** I was 
perhaps wrong in publishing, with such haste, a new 
theory of chemistry. My mind was ardent and enthu« 
siastic. I believed that I had discovered the truth. 
Since that time, my knowledge of facts is increased, 
»^ since that time I have become more sceptical.'* 
He had then made some progress in experunental 
research, and viewed the vast regions which opened 
before him through an atmosphere less obscured by 
mist. In the same note-book he writes, ** The man 
who would pretend, in the present state of our know-* 
ledgCi to give a complete arrangement of facts, would 
pretend to an impossibility. Experimental science 
has but just commenced her existence." And again 
in October of the same year, — '* Convinced as I am 
that chemical science is in its infancy, that an infinite 
variety of new facts must be accumulated before our 
powers of reasoning will be sufficiently extensive, I 
renounce my own particular theory as being a com- 
plete arrangement of facts ; it appears to me now 
QUly as the most probable arrangement." 

These private notes, never intended to meet the 
public eye, are valuable, as expressing his undisguised 
and genuine sentiments at this time. In a letter 
wiritten to Mr, Nicholson in 1800, alluding to his 
theory, after stating some facts which he considers 
in favour of it, he adds, &lt;' but others have occurred 
to me^ viz.. the deccnnposition of bodies supposed 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 83 

to contain light without any luminous appearance, 
which have made me a sceptic, with regard to my own 
particular theory, and theories of light in generaL'* 

Inquirers into physical science, especially those 
who are entering upon the pursuit, will do well to 
consider the errors which he fell into in t^ese essays^ 
the manner in which he renounced and corrected 
them, and the heightened ardour with which he proi 
secuted his search after truth. 

The first great fault committed was the believing 
an experiment correct which was incorrect (imagin-* 
ing the abraded particles of iron fused when they 
were not, deceived by a microscopic appearance): 
I allude to the first experiment detailed in his essays, 
and founding on that a theory. 

It is interesting to see in his note-books how he 
labours at the subject, endeavouring to investigate 
it more fully, smd make amends for his early pre* 
cipitancy. Though he was not aware of it w^hen he 
published his essays, the same experiment had been 
made long before by Mr. Hawkesbee, and with, a 
somewhat different result. This induced him to 
repeat it very carefully ; and though he could ob* 
tain no sparks on the collision of steel and flint in a 
vacuum, there was a faint light produced, as stated 
by Mr. Hawkesbee. He next endeavoured . to dis- 
cover the cause of this light He found it was only 
produced when a very thin flint was used, the edge 
of which was shattered, and that it was not connected 
with abrasion, and fusion of any particles of irx&gt;n. 
Proceeding a step further, he ascertained that flint, 
like glass, becomes electrical by friction; and he 
concluded, therefore, that the light observed in 
vacuum on its " collision, was probably an elec- 

G 2 



&amp;4 MEMOIBS OF TBE LIF£ OF 

tiical ' phenomenon, produced by the accumulatioil 
ef electrical fluid between the striking sur&amp;oe^ and 
its rapidtransmission to a&gt;coDducting body/' ' Finally; 
iie made another experiment, which he considered 10 
decisive* He substituted a piece of hard iron p}nikes 
§OF flint in the gun4ock, a substance neither eleotri&lt;&gt; 
€Jilly luminous, ncH* phosphorescent from heatt:or 
friction. It gave very brilliant and copious sparks^ 
when snapped in the air, from the combustion of 
particles of iron abraded, and of the pyrites;* but 
anapped in vacuum in the dark, it gave no lights 
however feeble. ^* From this we learn,'* he says^ 
^ that the temp^ature produced by collision is not 
sufficient to occasion the ignition of the metallic par«&gt; 
tides, though it is adequate to their combustion 
Mr. Stoddart has shown that iron b^ins to change 
colour at 432° Fahrenheit ; and though the thinnest 
(iron wire will not continue to bum till it has been 
very intensely heated, yet there is every reason to 
suppose that, in the smallest isolated particles struck 
0£f from the steel, the heat produced by the first de^ 
igree of oxydation may be sufiicient to carry on the 
-process.'* * 

n' The next subject of chemical inquiry that aU 
iiracted his attention, of which I find any records 
was of a very difierent nature from the preceding^ 
arising from the observation of a child, and carried 
«n experinteo tally, step by step, till it brought him 
1 an; interesting and important conclusion, in regard 
tOf the economy of nature in the vegetable kingdon^ 
The msulta he. obtained, he communicated t0.Mr«i 
iNioholson, asid they were published in his JoumaLt 

' * MS. Tide Nicholson's Journal^ 4to, vol,i. p. 516., and vol. fil. 
t Nicholson's Journal, 4to. voL iii. p. 56. 



SIR HUM-PHRV DAVT« M 

{(shall liunflcribe the greater part of the paper^ a^ 
the Journal is now rare, and the investigatiQn k a 
happy 'and simple instance of chemical resQarcb^ 
guided ^md extended by aoalogy, in which a single 
dianoe observation is the germ of an interesting and 
instructive series of experiments, showing how ih^ 
material of the&gt; hardest rocks exists in^ and ocm* 
Btitutes the shell and anmour as it wece of the most 
delicate plants, and imparts adequate strength, with* 
out impairing either their flexibility or lightness ;--4«** 
. &lt;&lt; Experiments and observations on the silex com^^ 
posing the epdermis, &amp;c. 

" 1. A few days ago, Mr. Coates, of Clifton, in- 
formed me that his son, accidentally rubUng two 
pieces of bonnet-cane together in the dark, had per- 
ceived a luminous appearance. This phenomenon 
was sufficiently novel and curious to induce me ta 
examine it. I found that all canes of this kind, when 
briskly rubbed together, produced sparks of white 
light. The luminous appearance was much moi^ 
vivid on collision. When the canes were violentiy 
struck together, sparks, nearly as vivid as those from 
the gun-lock, were produced: at the same time n 
do'ong^ smell, similar to that generated by the collision 
i^iiint, or the excitement of the electric fluids wab 
^rcfceived« .* . / 

' i'^ @. I fmt thought that the phenomenon waB&lt;ei0i&amp;» 
loio, and depended on some resinous matter ia» the 
kmei the electrometer, however, was not 'seosibljr 
^^ifetited during the experiment When ti»e •cane iwafct 
cttkiiok against wood of any kindj no light was .pelr«&gt; 
belved* When ,a cane was struck \ddently-agbinllt 
^piartz, agate, or any silicious stone, the light .^^&amp; as 
brilliant as when two canes were struck Jtogetb«?* 



86 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

The luminous appearance was produced when sharp 
steel was struck against the cane. When the cane 
was struck against sulphate of strontian, or barjrtes, 
or carbonate of lime, no light appeared. 

** S. These circumstances induced me to suppose 
that the phenomenon depended on silicious earth in 
the epidermis, or in the whole of the cane« To de- 
termine this, I took off a small quantity of epidermis 
from one of the canes. It was hard, white, and had 
something the appearance of pulverised glass. When 
the epidermis was removed, the canes no longer pos- 
sessed the property of giving out light on collision. 

" 4. To ascertain with certainty the nature of the 
epidermis, I obtained from 280 grains of cane twenty- 
two grains of epidermis : this was exposed in a cru- 
cible, to the strong heat of an air-furnace, for half an 
hour. It had lost three grains, was very white, in- 
fhsible by the heat of the blow-pipe, and insoluble in 
any of the mineral acids. Ten grains of it were kept 
in fusion with caustic potash, in a silver crucible, for 
a quarter of an hour. The compound was white, 
and semi-pellucid. It was perfectly soluble in water, 
without communicating to it any turbidity. When 
muriatic acid was poured into the aqueous solution, a 
copious white flocculent precipitate was produced. 
This precipitate, collected, weighed about nine grains, 
and had every property of silex. «- 

•* 5. To determine whether the wood and internal 
bark of the cane contained any silex, I burnt 240 
grains, carefully deprived of the epidermis, for an 
hour. The ashes were perfectly white, and weighed 
about seven grains. When muriatic acid was poured 
upon them, a portion was dissolved with efferves- 
cence. This portion was chiefly carbonate of poti- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 87 

ash : the insoluble part collected weighed about tvm 
grains, and was apparently silex, 

*&lt; 6. Having ascertained, by these experiments, ths^ 
the epidermis of the bonnet^cane was chiefly com- 
posed of flint, and that the luminous a|ypearance 
above mentioned depended on this composition, I 
thought it probable that the other canes, particularly 
the sugar-cane, arundo saccharffera^ and the bamboo, 
or arundo indica, were similar in their organisation. 
When two bamboos were struck together, I could 
perceive no luminous appearance. Four ounces of 
this cane only afforded seven grains of true epider&gt;* 
mis. This, exposed to a strong heat, left Ave grains 
of white matter, which had all the properties of flint* 
The reason why these canes produce no light on col- 
lision, is, that the flint of the epidermis is too small 
in quantity, and too thinly diffused. The epidermis 
of the sugar-cane contained a still smaller proportion 
of flint : 200 grains of this gave five grains of white 
ashes, of which only one grain was insoluble in mu- 
riatic acid: the four grains of soluble matter ap* 
peared to be carbonate of lime. A large piece of 
bamboo (the weight of which I am ignorant of), de* 
prived of the epidermis, gave a considerable quantity 
of white ashes, of which about two thirds were soluble 
in the muriatic acid : the insoluble part was siles* 
The ashes of the sugar-cane, deprived of the epider^ 
mis, appeared to be chiefly composed of carbonate of 
lime and carbonate of potash. 

&lt;&lt; 7* The analogy between the English reeds and 
grasses, and the canes, and particularly the similarity of 
the appearance of the epidermis, induced me to fi^p- 
pose that they might likewise contain silex. On this 
supposition, I first examined the arundp pkmgnUte^/xv 

G 4 



99 MEMOIRS OF TH£ LIFE OF 

iUfHnqioit roo^* : It piodticed no lutninouS) appearance 
op coUisian with flint. Twenty-sew grains of the epj^ 
iijb^rinist^eyposed to a strong.heat, gave thirteen grains 
qf. white earthy matter, insoluble in themuseral acids* 
^fitk grtinSi of this wasifused with thirty«&amp;ur grtrnf 
^'potash : the compcHind was soluble in water. . Xb^ 
nitrpu/s phoaacid threw down from the aqueous sdu** 
j^qn a white floecuknt matter, which was necessarily 
jgint ; this matter I did not weigh, but I conjecture 
that it was about seven or eight grains* One hundred 
and ten grains of the reed from whence the epidermia 
was re^Qived gave about six grains of flint 
,. MS. I now examiued the culm of wheat: 200 grains 
hiamt g^ve thirty-one grains of white ashes ; of these 
eighteen grains were soluble with effervescence in 
the muriatic acid: the remainder had all the pro- 
perties of silex. The matter dissolved in the muriatic 
s^cid was potash. The ashes of oats and barley a^ 
forded. silex in nearly the same quantities as those of 
wheat The culms of the grasses, among which I 
examined anthroaanthum^ poa pratensis, and some 
others, appeared to contain more silex in the epide^* 
mis than even the corns, with a much larger propor- 
tion q£ carbonate of potash. 

. ** 9» The silex in all these vegetables, as in. the 
canes, appeared to be contained in .the epidermis^ or 
ifi. the second bark.. When the plants are icari^tuUy 
burnt, the figure of the epidermis is preserved. , Ja 
Ihe oane, when well burnt, it has a white glossy/ap- 
peaiwice, and is semi-transparent. In the i^^eds^ 
^drUs, a.nd grasses it is white and opaque, and^ wben 
Viewed through a magnifier, . appears to consist, of 
ionigibuditijal threads joined together by net-work;; m 
tbeiimicroseopei even the smallest particles have a 
distinct reticular appearance. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. $§ 

&lt;&lt; lO. The quantity (^ carbonate of potash in the 
ashes of the corns and grasses induced me to sup* 
pose that, in a strong heat, they might be fused f nM 
glas8« The ashes of the arundo pkragndte9 vt^te e&amp;i 
posed to the strongest heat of za atr&lt;*furaace for sMie 
minute: there was no appearance of ftimon, the 
carb&lt;n)ate of potash was not sufficient to form glass 
"with the silicious earth. The ashes of straw, in k 
strong heat, gave a fine white transparent glass, pen 
lectly insoluble in water, and indecomposable by 
acids. The ashes of hay gare a black glass, with a 
superabundance of potash. This OHi version of coitl 
and grass into ^ass may be effected by tiie blow* 
pipe, and aflbrds a pleasing experiment. A strawy 
burnt with the blow-pipe, and urged with the 9trc»ig 
heat of the blue flame, beginning at the top, is coni 
iFerted . into a fine pellucid globule of glass, almost 
fit for microscopic experiments. A culm of grass is 
fused under the blow-pipe into a globule of glassi 
black and opaque, probably from its containing iron. 

&lt;« 1 1 • These facts will afford some curious infers 
ences to the speculator in organised nature. The 
fiint entering into the compo^ion of these hoUdtr 
vegetables, may be considered as analogous to the 
JNones of animals: it gives to them stability and 
form, and, by being situated in the epidermis, more 
^effectually preserves 4^eir vessels from external inv 
jUry.'^ 

* No -one ever engaged in pursuit with ioflier views 
before him, or with more sanguine expectations of 
Attaining them. The former is strongly indicated by 
k- passage in a note-book, which was writtefn in'the 
^nter or early spring of 1799* lieremtirks^ &lt;^131$i 
brUUaiit discoveries which havie^ onriebed^choftii^ 



90 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

science in these latter days, have, perhaps^ induced 
the philosophers who made them to conclude too 
hastily that science had arrived at perfection. But 
though chemical theory has made some advance, 
when we consider our inability to calculate results ; 
our ignorance of the attraction that binds many prin* 
ciples together, and of the composition of organic 
matter, we shall find that the field of nature is yet 
but little explored, and that the most sublime and 
important part of chemistry is yet unknown." — ^* In 
doctrine/' he continues, &lt;&lt; the attention has hitherto 
been confined to single and double affinities : even 
the union between the acids and alkalies, and metallic 
oxides, has been considered as elSected by the simple 
attractions of the individual compounds; nothing 
has been done towards estimating the attractions of 
the simple principles in compound substances. The 
perfection of chemical philosophy, or the laws of 
corpuscular motion, must depend on the knowledge 
of all the simple substances, their mutual attractions, 
and the ratio in which these attractions increase or 
diminish, with increase or diminution of temperature. 
These being ascertained, chemistry would become 
a science so far generalised as to enable calculations 
to be formed with regard to the result of any new 
apposition of particles. The first step towards these 
laws will be the decomposition of those bodies which 
are at present undecompounded." The bodies thus 
alluded to were the fluoric, muriatic, and boracic 
acids, the alkalies, and earths ; the elements of all 
which, in a few years from this time, he succeed^ 
in developing : even now he attempted it in regard 
to the acids, as some further extracts will show. I 
•shall give them in the order in which they occur : 



if 

99 



€€ 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 91 

they are well fitted to display the vastness of the 
sdietne of research which he then proposed to enter 
upon. The following &lt;&lt; Prospectus of Experiments '^ 
was written in the spring of 1799 : — 

^' To decompose the muriatic, boracic, and fluoric 
acids; to try triple affinities, and the contact with 
heated combustible bodies at a high temperature* 
*&lt; To ascertain all the phenomena of oxydation^ 
'&lt; To discover with accuracy the vegetable process/^ 
Immediately after he notices other great under* 
takings which he contemplated : — 
Two great works, — 
^ The Laws of Corpuscular Motion/ 
* The Theory of Passion/ 
" Smaller ones, — 

*« * The Theory of Light, founded upon Experi- 
ments.' 

■ 

" * An Account of Experiments/ " 

la the following page he asks, &lt;&lt; May we not be 
able to decompose muriatic acid by heating some of 
the muriates of the metals red, and sending sulphur 
in vapour through them ? The muriate of lead might 
be tried in this way, or the muriate of copper. The 
attraction of copper for sulphur, and the attraction 
of sulphur for oxygen, would most probably effect the 
decomposition/' From which it is evident thatj in 
confbnnity with the then received analogies, he 
supposed muriatic acid a compound of a base and 
of oxygen. 

. He proposes other methods to endeavour to effect 
the decomposition ; but I can find no precise men- 
tion of the results, excepting of an experiment on 
electrifying, or passing sparks through muriatic acid 
gas» which underwent no change : there are^ in- 



P9 MEAfOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

^ed, slight notices of experiments, which fkiidd, jusrt 
sufficient to bring them to his recollection j thep 
iKrere all unsuccessful, and did not require to be 
minutely recorded. He must have satisfied himself 
by his first trials, that his means at that time were 
ttot adequate to the end; and he does not a;ppear to 
have renewed the attempt till his extended researches 
bad made him master of a new agent of analysis, whose 
]^werdid not disappoint him. Fortunately, instead 
of wasting his time in ineffectual efforts to obtain the 
dements of the undecomposed acids and alkalies, he 
now engaged in other inquiries, of a more practicable 
nature, and in accordance with the views for which 
ilie Pneumatic Institution was founded. ' 

In the beginning of 1799^ he took up his residence 
m a house in Dowery Square, Clifton, which was 
iitted up for the purposes of the institution, and 
provided with a laboratory, &amp;c. Here he applied 
himself with the greatest assiduity and zeal to the 
investigation of the effects of gases in respiration. 
One of the gases which he first experimented upont 
was nitrous oxide. Its agency was of a very novel 
and wonderful kind, contrary to all expectation, and 
almost exceeding belief. This discovery gave a par« 
ticular direction to his inquiries, and may be coom 
sid«red as the origin of that work which contamed 
the results of l^ese inquires, and which established 
l^ bharaoter as a chemical philosc^her. It wai| 
{^Ushed in 1800, in one volume 8vo, with the 
unassuming title of «^ Reseai^hes, Chemical and Mii* 
lesopfaical, chiefly concern! ilg Nitrous Oxide and its 
Besfnyqtion;'^ 

&amp;J^This-w&lt;^' is deserving of the attention of the 
fliilWiG|)lhi&lt;f«) eteMiBl^^both as regards its author, aii4 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVX^ 93^ 

ibe history of chemical seioiice* In thelatter^ it witt 
even be memorable ; and» had he never written any 
94her work&gt; I cannot help thinking that it would 
have immortalised his name. The order which he 
^jbserved in the arrangement of his materiak w«a 
not adapted to allure the ordinary reader^ It waa 
fdtogether- scientiiic, and designed for the man o£ 
science, as, indeed, was the work in its design 
throughout; and, in consequence, though it waa 
immediately on its publication received with a;vidityv 
by those to whom it was addressed, and eulogised in 
a very high degree, and constantly referred to by 
systematic writers on chemistry, yet the sale.of^iib 
was not extensive, and a second edition. of.it :w4si 
never required; a proof, I may remark in passiti^^ 
hpw few in ji umber are the original inquirers i» 
the multitude of those who pretend to the naine \q€ 
chemical philosophers in Britain. 

The chemical reader I must refer to the worjlci 
itself: it is only by carefully studying it that a justi 
idea can be formed of the important additions* wbiob 
the author made to the stock of chemical knowledge^ 
the manner in which he conducted his experimental 
nsearches at this time, and the severe logi&lt;Q wh&amp;dit 
be employed in reasoning on the results he obtained.! 
Id rtthia place, a very ooncise. notice ckf the. greatei^ 
fiart . Of it must suffice* It was coiikiposed of fouto 
pofsts,' or researches. The first research waa chie^ 
eii . the production or mode of obtaining AittiHMt 
OKfde^ and on the analysis and composition of nitMfmni 
gas! and. nitrous acid* The second roneariih ^wtsf »«el 
the composition of nitrous oxide ; its de(miXfi^\tis9i 
bycomhiistible bodies; and the; c^mloin^tions^ifi t^as 
tepabl^eiof ibrniiig^ These .parts.w^rie pw«liyif)^@0ttB4t 



94k MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and displayed his invention and skill equally in con-&gt; 
triving and executing experiments to solve problems 
n^hich were then obscure, relative to the combina- 
tions of azote with oxygen, though they bad pre^ 
viously attracted the attention of, and had been 
investigated by, some of the most distinguished 
chemical philosophers. The other two parts were 
of a different nature, and were chiefly physiological 
and medicali The third research was on the action 
of nitrous gas on animals, and on the changes 
effected in it by respiration; and the fourth, and 
last, was on the effects of breathing this and other 
gases, giving the history of a series of experiments 
made on himself, perhaps the boldest ever under- 
taken by man, the majority attended with risk, and 
some of them with the most imminent danger to 
life* This research is the most original portion of 
the whole work, and the most generally interesting ; 
and is' very characteristic of him, especially at this 
period of his life, when an ardent enthusiasm was 
kindled in his mind, and he was equally excited by 
the love of knowledge and glory into the coui*se of 
scientific discovery, which he then commenced. 

He thus enters upon the subject : •— 

«• A short time after I began the study of che* 
mistry, in March, 1798, my attention was directed 
to the dephlo^sticated nitrous gas of Priestley, by 
Dr. Mitchell's Theory of Contagion ; " and he adds 
in a note, *• Dr. Mitchell attempted to prove, from 
some phenomena connected with contagious di&amp; 
eases, that dephlogisticated nitrous gas, which he 
called oxide of septon, was the principle of contagion 
when respir^ by animals in the minutest quantities» 
ov eren when applied to the skin or muscular fibre.'' 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 95 

He continues, &lt;&lt; The fallacy of this theory was soon 
demonstrated by a few coarse experiments made on 
small quantities of the gas procured from zinc, and 
diluted nitrous acid. Wounds were exposed to its 
action ; the bodies of animals were immersed in it 
without injury, and I breathed it, mingled in small 
quantities in common air, without remarkable effects* 
An inability to procure it in sufficient quantities^ 
prevented me at the time from pursuing the experi« 
ments to any greater extent I communicated an ac*» 
count of them to Dr« Beddoes/' 

After describing some experiments on breathing 
it in a diluted state, in which it appeared to render 
the pulse slower, he proceeds to notice his determin-* 
ation to inhale it pure, giving his reasons for so 
doing. He says, — 

&lt;&lt; In April I obtained nitrous oxide in a state of 
purity, and ascertained many of its chemical pro* 
perties. Reflections upon these properties, and upon 
the former trials, made me resolve to endeavour to 
inspire it in its pure form ; for I saw no other way in 
which its respirability or powers could b^ deter- 
mined. 

&lt;&lt; I was aware of the danger of this experiment : 
it certainly never would have been made if the 
hypothesis of Dr. Mitchell had in the lea3t in*' 
fluienced my mind. I thought that the effects might 
be possibly depressing or painful; but there were 
many reasons which induced me to believe that a 
single inspiration of gas, apparently possessing no 
immediate action on the irritable fibre, could neither 
destroy, nor materially injure, the powers of life." 
This resolution he carried into efiect on the 11th 
df April, and again on the l6th and 17th ; when he 



96 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

experienced for the first time the remarkable in- 
toxicating operation of the gas. The following is 
his account of the experiment, and of the sensations 
which he perceived : — 

♦* Having previously closed my nostrils, and ex- 
hausted my lungs, I breathed,*' he says, " four quarts 
of the nitrous oxide from and into a silk bag. The 
first feelings were similar to those produced in the 
last experiment (viz., a sense of fulness of the head ; 
loss of voluntary power, &amp;c.) j but in less than half a 
minute, the respiration being continued, they dimi- 
nished gradually, and were succeeded by a sensation 
analogous to gentle pressure on all the muscles, 
attended by a highly pleasurable thrilling, particu- 
larly in the chest and extremities. The objects 
around me became dazzling, and my hearing more 
acute. Towards the last inspirations, the thrilling 
increased; the sense of muscular power became 
greater ; and at last an irresistible propensity to ac- 
tion was indulged in. I recollect but indistinctly 
what followed. I know that my motions were various 
and violent These effects very soon ceased after 
respiration : in ten minutes I had recovered my 
natural state of mind. The thrilling in the extre- 
mities continued longer than the other sensations. 
This experiment was made in the morning : no lan- 
guor nor exhaustion was consequent; my feelings 
throughout the day were as usual ; and I passed the 
night in undisturbed repose. The next morning the 
recollections of the effects of the gas were very in- 
distinct ; and had not remarks, written immediately 
after the experiments, recalled them to my mind, I 
should have even doubted of their reality. I was 
willing, indeed, to attribute some of the strong emo- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 97 

tion to the enthusiasm which I had supposed must 
have been necessarily connected with the perception 
of agreeable feeUngs, when I was prepared to ex- 
perience painful sensations. Two experiments, how- 
ever, made in the course of this day with scepticism, 
convinced me that the effects were solely owing to 
the specific operation of the gas.** 

I must refer the curious reader to the work itself^ 
for the minute .details of the experiments made 
under a variety of circumstances on the inspiration 
of nitrous oxide, with an intrepidity and resolution 
almost without parallel in the history of scientific 
research. The most striking effects of the gas were 
produced in the bold experiment of including him- 
self in an atmosphere in part composed of it, and 
breathing it for a considerable time, and afterwards 
inhaling it pure. I shall extract the latter part of 
the account which he has given of the trial j it has 
a dramatic and almost poetical interest, and, indeed, 
I believe that the following poetical effusion was 
founded on it : — 

" Not in the ideal dreams of wild desire 

Have I beheld a rapture- wakening form : 
My bosom bums with no unhallow'd fire, 

Yet is my cheek with rosy blushes warm ; 
Yet are my eyes with sparkling lustre fiU'd ; 

Yet is my mouth replete with murmuring sound ; 
Yet are my limbs with inward transports fill'd. 

And clad with new-bom mightiness around.*' 

But to give the prose account, which is more poetical 
and exact : after breathing the nitrous oxide atmo- 
sphere for a considerable time, recording his sens- 
ations, and the effects on his pulse and temperature, 
he says, *' I had now a great disposition to laugh j 
luminous points seemed frequently to pass before my 

VOL. I. H 



98L MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

eyes ; my hearing was certainly more acute ; and I 
felt a pleasant lightness and power of exertion in my 
muscles. In a short time, the symptoms became 
stationary ; breathing was rather oppressive; 'and, on 
account of the great desire of action, rest was pain* 
fuK I now came out of the box, having been in 
precisely an hour and a quarter. 

"The moment after, I began to respire twenty 
quarts of unmingled nitrous oxide : a thrilling, ex- 
tending from the chest to the extremities was almost 
immediately produced. I felt a sense of tangible 
extension, highly pleasurable, in every limb; my 
visible impressions were dazzling, and apparently 
magnified; I heard distinctly every sound in the 
room, and was perfectly aware of my situation.* 
By degrees, as the pleasurable sensations increased, 
I lost all connection with external things ; trains of 
vivid visible images rapidly passed through my mind, 
and were connected with words in such a manner as 
to produce perceptions perfectly novel. I existed in a 
world of newly-connected and newly-modified ideas ; 
I theorised, I imagined that I made discoveries. 
When I was awakened from this semi-delirious trance 
by Dr. Kinglake, who took the bag from my mouth, 
indignation and pride were the first feelings pro- 
duced by the sight of the persons about me. My 
emotions were enthusiastic and sublime, and for a 
minute I walked round the room, perfectly regardless 
of what was said to me. As I recovered my former 
state of mind, I felt an inclination to communicate 
the discoveries I had made during the experiment. 
I endeavoured to recall the ideas : they were feeble 

* He adds, in a note, that^ after the first minute in the experiments^ 
his cheeks hecame purple. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 99 

ancji indistinct ; one collection of terms, however, pre- 
sented itself J and, with the most intense belief and 
prophetic manner, I exclaimed to Dn Kinglake, 
* Nothing exists but thoughts! the universe is com- 
posed of impressions^ ideas, pleasures^ and pains. ^ 

" About three minutes and a half only had elapsed 
during this experiment, though the time, as measured 
by the relative vividness of the recollected ideas, ap- 
peared to me much longer. Not more than half of 
the nitrous oxide was consumed : after a minute, be- 
fore the thrilling of the extremities had disappeared, 
I breathed the remainder : similar sensations were 
again produced. I was quickly thrown into the 
pleasurable trance, and continued in it longer than 
before. For many minutes after the experiment I 
experienced the thrilling in the extremities. The 
exhilaration continued nearly two hours. For a much 
longer period I experienced the wild enjoyment 
before described, connected with indolence : no de- 
pression or feebleness followed. I ate my dinner 
with great appetite, and found myself lively and 
disposed to action immediately after. I passed the 
evening in executing experiments ; at night I found 
myself unusually cheerful and active, and the hours 
between eleven and two were spent in copying the 
foregoing detail from the common-place book, and 
in arranging the experiments. In bed I enjoyed 
profound repose : when I awoke in the morning, it 
was with consciousness of pleasurable existence, and 
this consciousness, more or less, continued through 
the day.*' 

What immediately follows is so very descriptive of 
the variable effects of the gas, that I am tempted to 
give it, especially as it contains some particulars re- 

H 2 



100 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

specting himself, incidentally introduced, of an in- 
teresting kind. 

He continues : — " Since December I have very 
often breathed nitrous oxide. My susceptibility to its' 
power is rather increased than diminished : I find six 
quarts a full dose, and I am rarely able to respire it 
in any quantity for more than two minutes arid a 
half. 

" The mode of its operation is somewhat altered : 
it is, indeed, very different at different times. 

" I am scarcely ever excited into violent muscular 
action ; the emotions are generally much less intense 
and sublime than in the former experiments, and not 
often connected with thrilling in the extremities. 

" When troubled with indigestion, I have been 
two or three times unpleasantly affected with the ex- 
citement of the gas. Cardialgia, eructations, and 
unpleasant fulness of the head were produced. 

" I have often felt very great pleasure when breath- 
ing it alone in darkness and silence, occupied only 
by ideal existence. In two or three instances, when 
I have breathed it amidst noise, the sense of hearing 
has been painfully afiected, even by moderate in- 
tensity of sound. The light of the sun has sometimes 
been disagreeably dazzling. I have once or twice felt 
an uneasy sense of tension in the cheeks, and transient 
pains in the teeth. Whenever T have breathed the 
gas after excitement from moral or physical causes, 
the delight has been often intense and sublime. 

" On May 5th, at night, after walking for an hour 
amidst the scenery of the Avon, at this period 
rendered exquisitely beautiful by bright moonshine, 
my mind being in a state of agreeable feeling, I 
respired six quarts of newly prepared nitrous oxide. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 101 

The thrilling was very rapidly produced. The ob- 
jects around me were perfectly distinct, and the 
light of the candle not as usual dazzling. The 
pleasurable sensation was at first local, and perceived 
in the lips and about the cheeks; it gradually, 
however, diffused itself over the whole body, and 
in the middle of the experiment was for a moment 
so intense and pure, as to absorb existence — at this 
moment, and not before, I lost consciousness ; it was, 
however, quickly restored, and I endeavoured to 
make a bystander acquainted with the pleasure I 
experienced, by laughing and stamping. I had no 
vivid ideas. The thrilling and pleasurable feeling 
continued for many minutes ; I felt, two hours after- 
wards, a slight recurrence of these in the intermediate 
state between sleeping and waking; and I had, 
. during the whole of the night, vivid and agreeable 
. dreams. I awoke in the morning with the feeling 
of restless energy, which I had often experienced in 
the course of experiments in 1799." 

Numerous trials of the gas by other persons, which 
are minutely described in his work, confirm these 
latter results relative to the variable nature of the 
. effect of nitrous oxide. On some individuals, of 
little sensibility or irritability, it occasioned con- 
vulsive motions, and the breathing of it was not 
without danger. . On no one, perhaps, was its plea- 
surable influence greater than on himself: he appears 
to have been of that temperament best adapted to be 
excited bv it, and of a tone of mind best fitted to 
enjoy its excitements. If any one like his biographer, 
. Dr. Paris, should consider the descriptions given in 
. the ** Researches" of the operation of nitrous oxide 
exaggerated, he would probably lose his scepticism, 

H 3 



102 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

had he read, as I have, the original minutes of the 
experiments, written immediately after the breathing 
of the gas, in which the novelty of feeling is strongly 
portrayed by several expressions which were omitted 
in publication, not because they were not true, but 
because they might seem to others extravagant. 
Thus, on one occasion, when under the delightful 
influence of the gas, he uses the expresion, " I 
seemed a new being;** on another, "I seemed a 
sublime being newly created;** on a third occasion, 
that he felt " as if possessed of new organs.** 

As a medicinal agent, he speaks of it with reserve. 
In proof of this, I cannot do better than transcribe 
the concluding paragraphs of the work, which are 
no less remarkable for rational scepticism, than for 
clearness of view and ardour of hope. 

" As hydrocarbonate acts as a sedative, and di- 
minishes living action as rapidly as nitrous oxide 
increases it, on the common theory of excitability*, 
it would follow, that, by differently modifying the 
atmosphere by means of this gas and nitrous oxide, 
we should be in possession of a regular series of 
exciting and depressing powers, applicable to every 
deviation of the constitution from health : but the 
common theory of excitability is most probably 
founded on a false generalisation. The modifications 
of diseased action may be infinite, and specific in 
different organs, and hence out of the power of 
agents operating on the whole of the system* 

" Whenever we attempt to combine our scattered 
physiological facts, we are stopped by the want of 
numerous intermediate analogies, and so loosely con- 
nected, or so independent of each other, are the dif- 

* That of BrowD^ modified by his disciples^ which was then in 
fashion. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 103 

. ferent series of phenomena, that we are rarely able 
to make probable conjectures, much less certain pre- 
dictions, concerning the results of new experiments, 

" An immense mass of pneumatological, chemical, 
and medical information must be collected before 
we shall be able to operate with certainty on the 
human constitution. 

" Pneumatic chemistry, in its application to medi- 
cine, is an art in infancy, weak, almost useless, but ap- 
parently possessed of capabilities of improvement. To 
be rendered strong and mature, she must be nourished 
by facts, strengthened by exercise, and cautiously 
directed in the application of her powers by rational 
scepticism." 

For the particulars of his very dangerous experi- 
ments on the breathing of carburetted hydrogen, 
carbonic acid gas, azote, hydrogen, and nitrous gas, 
in which more than once his life was nearly sacrificed, 
I must also refer the reader to the " Researches." 
Those persons who are disposed to censure him for 
the rashness of the undertaking, should remember 
it was done in the ardour of youth, and in the 
enthusiasm of scientific research, and after the dis- 
covery of the influence of nitrous oxide, as un- 
expected as it was extraordinary. One or two of 
his experiments he regretted having attempted, 
almost as soon as they were made, because they 
were instituted in the face of manifest danger, and 
without any reasonable prospect of a beneficial or 
even innocuous result ; and he seems to have pub- 
lished them chiefly as a warning to others. A few 
years afterwards, his opinion of the impropriety of 
making on oneself experiments of danger, was very 
decided. It is contained in a letter to a young 

H 4 



104 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

friend, who was then studying medicine, and, with 
the same carelessness of life, was trying on himself 
the effects of narcotics. " I have heard,*' he says 
" of some experiments you have made on the action 
of digitalis, and other poisons, on yourself. I hope 
you will not indulge in trials of this kind. I cannot 
see any useful result that can arise from them. It 
is in states of disease, and not of health, that they are 
to be used; and you may injure your constitution 
without gaining any important result. Besides, if 
I were in your place, I should avoid being talked 
of for any thing extraordinary of this kind, as you 
have already fame of a better kind, and the power 
of gaining fame of the noblest kind.*' 

He wrote thus, it may be supposed, with a distinct 
recollection of the danger he had escaped of the 
immediate loss of life in the experiments before 
alluded to, and of the injury his health then sus- 
tained, so as to oblige him to desist from his researches 
for a time, when he was most intent on them, and 
seek the renewal of health and strength in his native 
air. 

This, his first visit home, in the latter part of 
October, 1799, was marked by the same ardour as 
he showed in every thing he undertook. He wrote 
to announce his intention, and arrived before his 
letter. He then remained at Penzance about a 
month, variously occupied, dividing his time between 
his family and his old friends, and his favourite 
amusements of fishing, shooting, geologising, and 
experimenting. Though his visit was for so short 
a time, and suddenly determined on, yet he brought 
with him a case of chemical apparatus, considerably 
larger than the one which some years after he carried 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 105 

with him on his continental travels ; and it may be 
still in existence, in the possession of a gentleman 
of the Mount's Bay, to whom he gave it when. he 
was about to return to Bristol, in exchange for a 
present of Cornish minerals. 

His feelings towards home, and the friends of his 
youth, were always warm and grateful, and they are 
strongly expressed in many of his early letters. I 
shall here insert two of these, — one to his mother, 
written soon after the visit just noticed, in reply to a 
letter from her of anxious inquiry, in consequence of 
a longer silence on his part than usual ; and another 
to his first benefactor, Mr. John Tonkin : — 

'' Hot Wells, November I9. 1800. 

" My dear Mother, 

" Had I believed that my silence of six weeks 
would have given you a moment's uneasiness, I 
should indeed have written long ago. But I have 
been much engaged in my favourite pursuit of ex- 
perimenting, and in endeavouring to amuse two of 
my friends who have spent some days at the Institute. 
One of them is your quondam lodger, Gregory Watt, 
who desired to be kindly remembered to you and the 
family. The other you have heard me speak of: his 
name is Thomson ; . and he is one of the few to whom 
God has given a spirit carrying them above the com- 
mon things of the world. 

" Accept my affectionate thanks for your presents. 
I have received them all, and I have made a good 
' use of them all. Several times has a supper on the 
excellent marinaded pilchards made me recollect 
former times, when I sat opposite to you, my dear 
mother, in the little parlour, round the little table 



106 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

eating of the same delicious food, and talking of 
future unknown things. Little did I then think of 
my present situation, or of the mode in which I am, 
and am to be, connected with the world. Little did 
I then think that I should ever be so long absent 
from the place of my birth as to feel longings so 
powerful as those I now feel for visiting it again. 

«*I shall see with heartfelt pleasure the time ap- 
proaching when I shall again behold my first home — 
when I shall endeavour to repay some of the debts 
of gratitude I owe to you, to the Doctor, and to my 
aunts. My next visit shall not be so short a one as 
the last. I will stay with you at least two or three 
months. You have let half your house. Have you 
a bed-room reserved for me, and a little room for a 
laboratory ? Which part have you let ? 

" When I come to Penzance we will settle all 
about John j till then I should like for him to learn 
French and Latin with Mr. Dugart. The expense 
of this or any other part of his education I will be 
glad to defray. Do not by any means put him with 
Mr. Coryton. I have long procured the paints : if 
there is no vessel in the course of a week, they shall 
be sent off by the waggon. 

" I will write to Kitty in the course of next month. 
I am glad to hear Grace is better. Remember me 
with affection to her. I have not yet seen Mr. Griffin. 
Any one who has lately seen my friends I shall be 
glad to see. 

" Have the goodness to tell Mr. Borlase that 1 
will endeavour to procure the book he wished for in 
London. 

" All in the way of progress goes on nobly. My 
health was never better than it has been since I left 



i 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 107 

Cornwall last. I shall be very glad to hear from you 
soon. You have a hundred objects to write about 
interesting to me* I can write only of myself. Re- 
member me vnth affection to all my friends (par- 
ticularly the Doctor), my aunts and uncles. Love 
to Kitty, Grace, Betsy, and John. 
" Farewell, my dear mother. 

** I am your affectionate son, 

•• H. Davy.'' 

'' Dowery Square^ Clifton^ January 12. 1801. 

" Respected Sir, 

** I have sent in the box enclosing this letter and 
a set of paints for John, two bottles, containing dif- 
ferent preparations of phosphorus, with directions 
for using them. The mode of conveyance by the 
waggon is very slow j I shall not, therefore, attempt 
to fill my pages with any thing that may be called 
news. Never was the state of public affairs in Eng- 
land more confused than at this moment, and never 
were the hopes of peace and plenty * feebler in the 
public mind. 

" The apathy connected with politics and morals 
does not, however, prevail with regard to the physical 
and medical sciences. Agriculture, the first of the 
arts, was never cultivated with greater ardour than 
at present. Natural philosophy has lately been en- 
riched with many curious discoveries, amongst which 
galvanism, a phenomenon that promises to unfold to 
us some of the laws of our nature, is one of the most 
important. In medicine, the inoculation for the cow- 
pox is becoming general, not in England alone, but 

• The reader will remember that this was a time of extraordinary 
dearth. 



108 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

: over the whole of Europe ; and, taking circumstances 
as they now stand, it promises gradually to annihilate 
. smallrpox. 

" My discoveries relating to the nitrous oxide, 
the pleasure-producing air, are beginning to make 
some noise : the experiments have been repeated, 
with the greatest success, by the professors of. the 
University of Edinburgh, who have taken up the 
subject with great ardour ; and I have received letters 
of thanks and of praises for my labours from some of 
the most respectable of the English philosophers. I 
am sorry to be so much of an egotist ; yet I cannot 
speak of the Pneumatic Institution and its success 
without speaking of myself. Our patients are be- 
coming daily more numerous, and our Institution, in 
spite of the political odium attached to its founder, is 
respected, even in the trading city of Bristol. I shall 
soon send you an account of the success we have had 
in curing some of the most obstinate diseases by new 
remedies. The nitrous oxide we have found veiy 
beneficial in many cases of palsy. 

" I hope sincerely that you will pass over the 
winter without any return of your complaint. The 
weather was never milder in April than it is now at 
this place in January. The autumn and the spring 
seem to mingle together without being separated by 
a winter. 

"I am at this moment very healthy and very 
happy ; I have had great success in my experiments, 
and I gain a competence by my pursuits, at the same 
time that I am (in hopes at least) doing something 
towards promoting the public good. If I feel any 
anxiety, it is that of being removed so far from you, 
my mother, and my relations and friends. If I was 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 109 

nearer, I would endeavour to be useful to you ; I- 
would endeavour to pay some of the debts of grati- 
tude I owe to you, my first protector and earliest 
friend. As it is, I must look forward to a futurity that 
will enable me to do this: but, believe me, wherever I 
am, and whatever may be my situation, I shall never 
lose the remembrance of obligations conferred on me, 
or the sense of gratitude which ought to accompany 
them. 

" I remain, respected Sir, 
" With unfeigned duty and aflfection, yours, 

" H. Davy." 

This letter was written in 1801 ; and it was the 
last, I believe, he ever addressed to his respected 
friend, who very soon after quitted life in advanced 
age (he was in his eighty-second year), regretted by 
his fellow-townsmen, amongst whom he held a dis- 
tinguished place, looked up to for his sterling worth 
and strength of judgment, and more than usually 
lamented by a circle of friends, to whom he was very 
dear for his benevolence, kindness, and very generous 
and friendly disposition. He will long be remembered 
in Penzance, both for excellencies and peculiarities. 
The latter marked him as a person of the gone-by 
time, and attracted the notice even of the careless 
observer. He held in aversion modern changes of 
fashion, and in his old age wore the dress of his 
youth — the cocked hat, large powdered wig, hand- 
ruflBes, upright collar ; in brief, the professional dress 
of the beginning of the last century ; and his manly 
form and countenance suited well with this venerable 
costume. Of a quick temper, and much indulged, 
he was angry with my brother for accepting the ap- 



110 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

pointment at the Pneumatic Institution, and made 
some alteration, it is said, in his will in consequence. 
But his anger was of short duration ; his kindest 
feelings soon returned, and he never ceased to be 
interested in his welfare, and to rejoice in his 
success. 

In further confirmation of my brother's warm 
feelings towards the place of his birth,, and his early 
friends, I shall give some verses, irregularly written, 
apparently in the enthusiasm of revisiting home, 
heightened by various emotions from acquired and 
anticipated fame in the pursuit of science : — 



cc 



Many days have pass'd^ 



Beloved scene^ since last my wet eyes saw 

The moon-bearas gild thy whitely-foaming waves. 

Ambitious then^ confiding in her powers^ 

Spuming the prison, — onward flew my soul 

To mingle with her kindred ; — in the breeze 

That wafts upon its wings futurity^ 

To hear the voice of praise ; — and not in vain 

Have these high hopes existed^ — not in vain 

The dew of labour has oppressed my brow. 

On which the rose of pleasure never glow'd ; 

For I have tasted of that sacred stream 

Of science, whose delicious water flows 

From Nature's bosom. I have felt the warmth. 

The gentle influence of congenial souls. 

Whose kindred hopes have cheer'd me ; who have taught 

My irritable spirit how to bear 

Injustice ; who have given 

New plumes of rapture to my soaring wing 

When ruffled with the sudden breath of storms. 

Here, through the trembling moonshine of the grove. 

My earliest lays were wafted by the breeze, — 

And here my kindling spirit leam'd to trace 

The mystic laws from whose high energy 

The moving atoms, in eternal change. 

Still rise to animation. 

Beloved rocks ! thou ocean white with mist. 

Once more with joy I view thee ; 

Once more ye live upon my humid eyes ; 

Once more ye waken in my throbbing breast 

The sympathies of nature. Now I go 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. Ill 

Once more to visit my remembered home. 
With heartfelt rapture, — there to mingle tears 
Of purest love, — to feel the ecstatic glow 
Of warm afibction, and again to view 
The rosy light that shone upon my youth." 

To recur to his " Researches," which were pub- 
lished in the middle of the summer of 1800 : a work 
so laborious might have sufficed for the life of an 
ordinary man ; the materials of it were collected and 
put together in an almost incredibly short time. In 
a note-book now before me, there is a rough draft of 
a preface, in which he says, " These experiments have 
been made since April, 1799, the period when I first 
breathed nitrous oxide. Ten months of incessant 
labour were employed in making them, three months 
in detailing them."* Most men, after such a labour, 
would have allowed themselves rest ; but with him 
exertion was a pleasure, and one was only the pre- 
lude to another. In an unpublished dedication of 
his " Researches" to Dr. Beddoes, he begs him to 
receive them "as pledges of more important labours;" 
and even before they were given to the world, he 
had entered upon new inquiries — he had begun that 
series of galvanic experiments which ultimately led 
to some of his greatest discoveries. These I shall 



* During the same period he made a large numher of experiments 
on the salts of ammonia^ especially its carbonates^ the details of which 
he never published^ the inquiry having been left imfinished. He 
ascertained many facts respecting them at that time new: he found 
that the sesquicarbonate of ammonia is partially decomposed by heat ; 
that a portion of carbonic acid is expelled in the gaseous form ; and 
that a salt sublimes saturated with the volatile alkali^ very acrid and 
deliquescent. He considered it a new compound. From a recent 
examination^ I have satisfied myself that it is a hydrate composed of 
one proportion of ammonia^ of one of carbonic acid^ and of one of 
water, which hitherto has been overlooked by chemists. — Fide The 
Edinburgh New FhilosophicalJoumal for April, 1834. 



IIS MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

consider further on. There were other pursuits which 
had a portion of his time at Bristol, which require 
some attention in exemplification of the varied powers 
of his mind, and that at a time when he was most 
intenselj occupied in experimental research. 

The following memorandum, which occurs in a 
note-book kept when he first went to Bristol, will 
give the reader a distinct idea of the intellectual life 
he then led, and of that variety of pursuit just alluded 
to: -— 

«* Resolution. — To work two hours with pen before 
breakfast on the * Lover of Nature ; ' and * The 
Feelings of Eldon,* from six till eight; from nine 
tUl two, in experiments ; from four to six, reading ; 
seven till ten metaphysical reading (i. e. system of 
the universe)." 

And his note-books generally, at this period, were 
not less characteristic ; they contain mixed together, 
without the least regard to order, schemes and 
minutes of experiments, passing thoughts of various 
kinds, lines of poetry (but these are in small propor- 
tion), fragments of stories and romances, metaphy- 
sical fragments, and sketches of philosophical essays. 
Some specimens may not be uninteresting. 

Amongst the last-mentioned, the essays, there is 
one on Education, one on Luxury, one on Genius, 
and one on Dreaming. That on education is called 
** Hints towards a Treatise to be entitled Observa- 
tions on Education and the Formation of the Human 
Intellect, designed for the Use of Parents and In- 
structors.** In the beginning of it he adverts to the 
impulses to which the foetus in utero is exposed, ac- 
cording to a very early speculation already men- 
tioned. He supposes that the feelings which may 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 113 

be there experienced by means of the sense of touch 
and of hearing &lt;&lt; may have an influence on the in- 
dividual, in the same manner as the feelings of the 
first two or three years of childhood, though not 
recollected, may have on the character of the man/' 
He next considers how the child may be affected 
after birth ; what are the sources of its pleasures and 
pains ; and how the passions result from them. He 
insists on the propriety of not. associating pain with 
moral agents, and of giving infants as little pain as 
possible, soothing them when cross, and not beating 
them, so that the irascible passions may be kept 
down, and not excited. On the same humane prin- 
ciple, when children are ill, he inculcates the opposing 
irritable and peevish feeling by all innocent means 
adapted to amuse and please them, so that their at* 
tention may be diverted from pain. He hints at the 
punishment of children, when necessary, by ma- 
chines, that the pain inflicted may not be associated 
with a moral agent. He alludes to the &lt;^ detestable 
practice of humouring children by turns.** He pro- 
poses showing them the beauties of nature. He 
notices " the miserable habit of punishing them by 
anticipated pain, by which that pain becomes as- 
sociated with ideas which have no relation to the 
fault." These are some of the heads of the treatise 
belonging to the first era ; others of a second and 
third era are also given, but without any details. It 
is probable that he never went further with this in- 
tended treatise ; yet here and there notices are dis- 
persed, as if in the way of preparation for it, and in- 
dicating that the subject was still floating in his 
mind. There occurs in one of his note-books the 
opening of a romance, ** The History of Passion j a 

VOL. I. I 



114 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Philosophical Narrative/' which was perhaps in- 
tended to embody his ideas on the subject of educa- 
tion, and the developement of the human character ; 
and it is preceded by the following sketch of man in 
his progress through life : — 

" The Infant, being of sensation. 

" The Youth, being of imagination. 

" The Lover. 

" The Social being. 

" The Logopathist. 

** The Lover of money. 

•« The Lover of science. 

*« The Lover of nature. 

" Recurrence of former feelings. 

" The Lover of future existence." 

Hereafter I shall insert a poem of his, which was 
written, in part, in 1801, and which bears the stamp 
of the same train of thought ; as, indeed, did his own 
life generally, as if he wrote from his perceptions of 
self more than from reflections on others. 

Of the " Essay on Genius,** fragments merely were 
written. He commences with noticing " The won- 
derful difference in the nature of men, between those 
who are insignificant in their powers, and apparently 
isolated in their influences — who live only whilst 
they move, and cease to act as soon as they cease 
to exist ; and those whose agency extends over the 
whole social world — who are full of energy in life, 
and leave behind them monuments of thought 
capable of perpetuating their existence." He in- 
quires, " What is this generating faculty of man, 
which acts through the immensity of ages? How 
is it produced, and in what manner does it operate ?*' 
s" Great powers," he observes, " have never been 



SIB HUMPHRY DAVT. 115 

exerted independent of strong feelings. The rapid 
arrangements of ideas, from their various analogies 
to the equally rapid comparisons of these analogies, 
with facts uniformly occurring during the progress of 
discovery, have existed only in those minds where the 
agency of strong and various motives is perceived — 
of motives modifying each other, mingling with each 
other, and producing that fever of emotion, which is 
the joy of existence, and the consciousness of life." 

The heads (for there is little more) of his " Obser- 
vations on Luxury " express clearly his opinions on 
this subject, and they are not unworthy of maturer 
years ; nor do I believe that he ever swerved from the 
principles contained in them, though, at times, some 
of his habits of life might appear to be, as they were 
said to be, luxurious. I shall make only one extract 
from them : — 

** Nature and domestic attachments the true sources 
of happiness. Cosmopolitanism, the love of notoriety, 
not fame,— the love of pleasure, all fatal to the first 
and strongest feelings of our nature. In general so- 
ciety, the feelings are so mixed up, and prevented from 
ever arriving at maturity ; hence the petit maitre-ism 
of men and women of quality.'* 

On the subject of dreams a good many observations 
occur, and many of them arising out of his own ex- 
perience. His theory of them is expressed in the 
following passage : — 

" Our waking existence is composed of impressions, 
ideas, and feelings, of different degrees of vividness, 
which succeed each other in what may be called 
trains. The past is simple memory, the future is 
analogy, and the present is made up of impressions, 
sometimes, though rarely, simple, but often mixed or 

I 2 



116 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

associated with the past and the future. In dreams, 
all the ideas occurring seem to be of one degree 
of vividness. There is neither past nor future, no 
mixture of impressions with ideas ; the feelings occur 
as in waking, though seldom connected with what 
may be called the secondary reflective feeUngs, those 
produced when an action, at first pleasant, afler a time 
becomes the contrary. The mixtures of memories 
and analogies, which are mingled, in waking, by the 
peculiarly modifying and connecting impressions in 
the order of nature, are here called up and modified 
only by slight organic feelings; generally so slight 
as to lose their independent existence, and can only 
be traced by impressions which are connected with 
them." 

The works of fiction, to which, it has been re- 
marked, he even now occasionally turned his at- 
tention, from the fragments of them which remain, 
appear to have been intended to illustrate, in a 
popular manner, his own philosophical and meta- 
physical views ; such as " The Child of Education, 
or the Narrative of W. Morley ; " " The Lover of 
Nature, or the Feelings of Eldon ; " " The Dreams 
of a Solitary;" &lt;&lt; Imla, the Man of Simplicity; a 
Romance;" "The Villager; a Tale for the common 
People, to prove that great Cities are the Abodes of 
Vice," &amp;c. Of some of these only the titles and 
plans are given ; of others, portions are written ; but 
they are so intermixed with notices on other subjects, 
and reflections, that it is often difficult to distinguish 
between what is noted down as his own sentiments 
and feelings, and what is sketched as the sentiments 
and feelings of the imaginary persons of his stories. 
In this respect there is a considerable resemblance 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 117 

between these fragments and the last works which 
he composed; viz- " Days of Fly-fishing/* and " The 
Last Days of a Philosopher,'* or " Consolations in 
Travel ; ** and it is curious to see that between them 
there are other and more important points of resem- 
blance ; as if in his latter days, when he was no longer 
able in sickness to apply himself to the laborious 
researches of science, there was a renewal of his 
former ideas, a revival of former intentions, and with 
them of early trains of thought and feeling. I shall 
give some extracts, partly with a view of showing 
this ; and, first, a sketch of a reverie, not unlike part 
of that which is described in the " Consolations in 
Travel" to have occurred in the Colosseum. 

" I awoke at midnight : the recollection of indis- 
tinct but painful visions passed across my mind ; the 
spectre of horrible images still trembled in my eyes 
when I raised them to the light which shone through 
the green windows of my chamber. The moon was 
high in heaven ; the sky was blue and cloudless ; the 
woodbine, that surrounded the casement, was waving 
its dark foliage to the breeze. How intimately con- 
nected together are life, light, and motion ! I was no 
longer solitary, no longer terrified ; the restless and 
uneasy feeling which superstition, almost conquered 
by reason, is capable of awakening in the mind, dis- 
appeared before the beautiful, or combined with it to 
form sublime energy. You know a moonlight scene 
is peculiarly delightful to me ; I always considered it 
as beautiful: but so much solitary enthusiasm, so 
much social feeling, so much of the sublime energy 
of love, of sorrow, and consolation, have occurred to 
me beneath the moonbeams, on the shore of that sea 
v?here Nature first spoke to me in the murmurs of 

I 3 



118 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

tlie waves and winds, in the granite caves of Michael, 
that it is now become sublime. Restless, and filled 
with vivid imaginations, I was unable to sleep : I 
arose and stole to the window. The moon had just 
sunk beneath the ruins of the abbey, and her broken 
and trembling light shone through the west windows 
upon the burying-ground ; beyond which the moving 
waters of the Wye were dancing and murmuring 
beneath the light. For a few minutes I was lost, and 
swallowed up in impression. No longer connected 
with the earth, I seemed to mingle with Nature ; I 
pursued the dazzling of the moonbeams ; I raised 
myself above the stars, and gave imaginary beings to 
the immeasurable paths of ether. But when I cast 
my eyes on the remains of mortality, — when I con- 
sidered, that in that deserted spot, where the song 
of the nightingale and the whispering of the wings 
of the bat were the only signs of life, thousands of 
thoughts, an immense mass of pleasurable ideas, had 
rolled through the minds of a hundred intelligent 
beings,— I was lost in a deep and intense social feeling. 
I began to think, to reason. What is existence ? what 
is this eternal series of changes in life, in thought, 
and sentiment? The globe undergoes no physical 
revolution, whilst the physical organised beings upon 
the surface of it are perpetually modifying ; the laws 
by which the physical phenomena of the universe are 
ruled are always the same : are there no laws by 
which the moral phenomena are governed ? Nothing 
remains of them but mouldering bones; their thoughts 
and their names have perished. Shall we, too, sink 
in the dust ? shall we, too, like these beings, in the 
course of time, be no more ? shall that ever-modified 
consciousness be lost in the immensity of being ? No, 



SIE HUMPHRY DAVY. 119 

my friend, individuality can never cease to exist j 
that ideal self which exists in dreams and reveries, 
that ideal self which never slumbers, is the child of 
immortality, and those deep intense feelings, which 
man sometimes perceives in the bosom of Nature and 
Deity, are presentiments of a more sublime and 
energetic state of existence/* 

The following passage, strongly expressive of sym- 
pathy with nature, reminds me of the vivid and 
beautiful description in the " Consolations in Travel,'* 
at the opening of the third dialogue, in approaching 
Paestum : — 

" To-day, for the first time in my life, I have had a 
distinct sympathy with nature. I was lying on the 
top of a rock to leeward ; the wind was high, and 
everything in motion ; the branches of an oak tree 
were waving and murmuring to the breeze ; yellow 
clouds, deepened by grey at the base, were rapidly 
floating over the western hills ; the whole sky was in 
motion ; the yellow stream below was agitated by the 
breeze j everything was alive, and myself part of the 
series of visible impressions ; I should have felt pain 
in tearing a leaf from one of the trees." There is a 
break in the writing, and a metaphysical remark 
follows :— " Deeply and intimately connected are all 
our ideas of motion and life, and this, probably, from 
very early association. How different is the idea of 
life in a physiologist and a poet I** 

The following passage was almost prophetically 
true of himself, descriptive of the feelings of a philo- 
sopher in his last hours ; such as he imagined them 
in youth, such as he found them thirty years after, 
when I joined him at Rome, in his last illness : — 

" Behold me on the couch of death, my senses lost, 

I 4 



ISO MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

my organs falling towards that state in which they 
will resolve into their primitive atoms : still is my 
mind unconquered, still all my passions, all my 
energies, are alive ; still are all my trains of thinking 
complete. Philosophy has warmed me through life : 
on the Ued of death she does not desert her disciple. 
The frost of the grave can never chill those burning 
energies connected with the thoughts of future exist- 
ence. I feel and believe that the genial warmth of 
the sun of immortality, which has shone through this 
shattered frame with feeble light, shall be more per- 
manent in the regions of bliss. I feel within me new 
energies ; these hopes do not announce pain or anni- 
hilation. Oh, happy man ! oh, benevolent Deity! thou 
art every where existing ; and where thy permanent 
essence is interfused, pain cannot be permanent. Then 
the vain philosophy of the schools, the dull and dry 
heaps of words which have been called metaphysics, 
crossed my mind ; but their influence was lost, and 
swallowed up in the genial illumination, as the noise 
of the mountain torrent amidst the majesty of visible 
imagery is lost and disregarded." 

The next extract carries me back to his early 
youtli ; and the manner, as related already, in which 
he ^iitertained his schoolfellows ; and it was probably 
drawn from the recollection of himself at that time : — 

" After reading a few books, I was seized with the 
desire to narrate, to gratify the passions of my 
youthful auditors. I gradually began to invent, and 
form stories of my own. Perhaps this passion has 
produced all my originality. I never loved to imitate, 
but always to invent: this has been the case in all the 
sciences I have studied." 

Of the many remarks written at this period which 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 121 

occur scattered through his note-books, I shall select 
a few as specimens of his modes of thought, some of 
a miscellaneous nature, some relating to science and 
philosophy ; — 

" General terms — what some metaphysicians have 
called abstract ideas — arise from the association of 
analogy by a very simple operation — not, as Jean 
Jacques Rousseau supposed, by a very complicated 
one. 

" No metaphysical system, and, indeed, no sys- 
tem can be any thing more than a history, — not in 
the order of impression, but in the order of arrange- 
ment by analogy. 

" Atheism the necessary consequence of ma^rial- 
ism. "^N 

" Consistency in regard to opinions is the slow 
poison of intellectual life — the destroyer of its vivid- 
ness and its energy. 

" We are accustomed to consider thought and 
language as almost synonymous. What an immen- 
sity of feelings, what an innumerable quantity of per- 
ception, must necessarily impress the mind of aU men. 
Writing and speaking are arts, like music and paint- 
ing, to express some of them only. 

** Our opinions are much oftener formed by our 
feelings, and modified by them, than our feelings by 
our opinions : arguments in general an instance of 
this. Passion, or uneasy feeling, produces assents or 
dissents of different kinds. 

" Our actions are neither the result of feelings or 
opinions ; they are modified by them both, but are 
produced by habits. 

" What is imagination ? Almost always the recur- 
rence of remembered visible imagery, under the in- 
fluence of hope or fear. 



122 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

*&lt; Almost all great deeds arise from a plenitude of 
hope or desire. No man ever had genius who did 
not aim to execute more than he was able* 

" The sciences and the arts ought to be considered 
as related to man only so far as they are capable of 
promoting his happiness. Our knowledge of their 
capabilities must be founded upon an estimate of the 
powers and faculties of the human mind, and the 
sources of enjoyment which are within the reach of 
these faculties and powers. 

«* Philosophy is simple and intelligible. We owe 
confused systems to men of vague and obscure ideas. 

&lt;* We ought to reason from effects alone. False 
philosophy has uniformly depended upon making use 
of words which signify no definite ideas. 

" Our knowledge is little indeed : and scepticism 
in regard to theory is what we ought most rigorously 
to adhere to. 

** Experimental science hardly ever affords us more 
than approximations to truth ; and whenever many 
agents are concerned we are in great danger of being 
mistaken. 

" Theories ought to be made for time, and be con- 
sidered capable of improvement. 

" That man must indeed be badly organised whom 
nature is incapable of instructing. The theorising 
habit in a sound mind can counteract only for a short 
time the love of seeing things in their real light ; and 
the illusions of the imagination, in proportion as they 
often occur and are destroyed by facts, will become 
less vivid and less capable of permanently misleading 
the mind. 

" The feeling generally connected with new facts 
enables us to reason more rapidly upon them, and is 
peculiarly active in calling up analogies. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 123 

" In physical science the imperfections of our instru- 
ments of investigation, the fallacies to which we are 
liable from the modifications of impressions by the 
state of feeling, and the minute nature and the com- 
plicated relations of the objects of research, prevent 
us from attaining to that state of certainty afforded 
by the results of the science of quantity. The phy- 
sical sciences involve the universe, man, and nature, 
in all their modifications, and all their newly acquired 
powers. They are at once the instruments and sub- 
jects of examination. Probabilities are the most we 
can hope for in our generalisations ; and whenever we 
can trace the connection of a series of facts, without 
being obliged to imagine certain relations, we may 
esteem ourselves fortunate in our approximations. 

" One use of physical science is, that it gives defi- 
nite ideas." 

I shall give one fragment more, indicating the de- 
sire he then felt to benefit mankind, and which, to the 
last, never forsook him : — 

" Shall those arts which have discovered a thou- 
sand instruments for inflicting pain or suffering on 
civilised man never discover any new means of mak- 
ing him happy ? Shall the fruit of the tree of know- 
ledge always continue bitter ; shall it never be 
ripened by the radiance of the sun of benevolence ? 
If there be any sufficiently cold-hearted to believe 
this, let them remain idle. To us hope, which, 
though it should be vain, is yet an eternal source, 
will remain ; it will ever prompt to actions which, 
though they should deserve no laurels of triumph 
from mankind, will never have raised them by water- 
ing the earth with blood." 

The quantity of poetry which he composed at this 
time was small j he was too much devoted to physical 



1S4 MEMOIRS OF THE I^IFE OF 

research to give much of his time to the Muses ; and 
when he did address them, he seemed to think some 
apology was necessary. Thus, in a letter accompany- 
ing some lines on St. Michael's Mount (which were 
published in the *' Annual Anthology "), he writes 
to his mother : — "I have sent you with this some 
copies of a poem on the place of my nativity ; but do 
not suppose I am turned poet. Philosophy, chemis- 
try, and medicine are my profession. I had often 
praised Mount's Bay to my friends here : they desired 
me to describe it poetically." Yet, at times, I be- 
lieve, he meditated some serious and long-continued 
exertion in these imaginative regions. This T infer 
from letters to him from his poetical friends, which I 
have heard spoken of, and from a distinguished one 
in particular, proposing to him a joint work, a philo- 
sophic epic ; and it may be inferred, also, from some 
fragments which remain in note-books of this period, 
of a poem in blank verse, the subject of which was, 
the deliverance of the Israelites from Egypt, to have 
been named ** Moses." The following is a verbatim 
copy of its plan, and of the characters which were to 
be introduced into it : — 

MOSES. 

BOOK I. 

" Zipporah, and the six Daughters of Jethro, 
Priest of Midian, in watering their Father's Flock, 
are insulted by some Shepherds: Moses protects 
them, and assists them in watering their Flocks. — 
They take him to their Father's Dwelling. — De- 
scription of Pastoral Scenery. — Of the Patriarchal 
Manners. — Jethro, a Man of Energy, receives 
Moses with Affection. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 125 



BOOK It. 



The great Festival of the God of Nature, — 
Customs of the Midianites. — Moonlight Scene, and 
Reflections of Jethro on the System of the Universe, 
— History of Moses. — His earliest Impressions con- 
nected with Pharaoh's Daughter. — His Knowledge 
of his Family, &amp;c. 

BOOK III. 

" Growing Love of Moses and Zipporah. — Moses 
agrees to stay with Jethro. — Their happy Pastoral 
Life. — Moses, in wandering in the Desert, falls 
down a Cataract. — Meets with Miriam. — She tells 
him of a Light of Glory surrounding his Body : 
believes himself under the immediate Inspiration of 
the Deity. — His Dreams. — Theory of Jethro. — 
He resolves to return to Egypt. 

BOOK IV. 

" Meets Aaron. — Sees his Mother. — Secret Con- 
ference at the Pyramids. — Goes and speaks to 
Pharaoh, who was the Companion of his Youth. — 
Jacobinical Sentiments. — Pharaoh calls the Magi- 
cians (Reference to these in Book II.). — Visits 
Pharaoh's Daughter. — She supplicates him. — The 
Plagues, — Lamentation for the Death of the First 
Born. 

BOOK V. 

*' March through the Desert — Miraculous Ap- 
pearance of the Son of God. — Destruction of Pha- 
raoh and his Army. — Moses* Song. — Amalek 
overcome. 



1S6 M£|dOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

BOOK VI. 

" Meeting of Jethro. — His Counsels. — Institu- 
tion of Laws. — Communion with God on Mount 
Sinai. — Mosaic Account of Creation. — End. 

" Moses a great but enthusiastic Man. — Zipporah 
his Superior in reasoning Powers and in Sensibility. 
— Pharaoh a Despot. — Jethro a Wonder, a philo- 
sophic Priest. — Joshua a Hero, i. e. a Murderer. — 
Hur. — Miriam the Prophetess, the Sister of Moses, 
a wonderful Woman." 

We have here a subject admirably adapted to the 
epic, and a plot abounding in all the circumstances 
most fitted to excite poetical interest, both in the 
writer and the reader. Had my brother applied all 
the powers of his mind to the work, I cannot but 
think he would have given to the world a poem that 
would have afforded delight and instruction — de- 
light, even had it been struck off in the heat of a 
youthful imagination ; and instruction, could he have 
had the resolution to have suspended its publication 
till it could have been corrected by his maturer judg- 
ment. But these are vain speculations ; his genius 
was destined for other efforts. Some specimens of the 
composition which remain in the form of fragments I 
shall introduce. They may amuse the reader ; and 
they show, if I am not mistaken, that he had not 
engaged in a theme beyond his powers : — 

'^ Aod loud she strack the harp^ and raised the song^ 
Her ebon tresses waving in the wind ; 
Her dark eye sparkling^ and her bosom 
Throbbing with transport high. — ^ Thou^ thou art he^ 
The chosen one of God^ — the man foretold 
The saviour of thy people. Prophet^ chiefs 
And lawgiver of Israel I at thy birth 
Deliver'd to the waters^ yet preserved^ 
By hand unhallow'd, — fVom the royal pomp 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 127 

Of Pharaoh, and the dark idolatry 
Of Egypt's kingdom led to know thy God, 
In nature and in solitude to feel 
His mighty inspirations ! Go then forth : 
In all the high unhroken strength of hope 
Proclaim the Eternal One, — declare his wilL 
Let Egypt and the kindred nations know 
That He alone is God ! — that He will free 
In terror and in wrath his chosen seed. 
Exalt the oppressed, tread the tyrant low. 
And scatter as the sand upon the hlast 
The people that rehel against His will. 
Go forUi his servant, — go deliverer !" 



tc 



&lt;€ 



Oh, with what pleasure, with what strong delight 

Does Nature, long suhdued, imprison'd long. 

By heavy action, and &amp;e cumhrous chains 

Of earthly ceremony, assume her rights. 

Like the mild zephyr of the full-horn spring, 

Succeeding to the frosty northern hlast. 

She felt that Nature meant her to perform 

All soft and tender duties, — to hecome 

A wife, a mother ; that her heart was form'd. 

Not for the dull, inert, and callous round 

Of earthly forms and state, hut soft and fill'd 

With power, and with passion, to hecome 

All natural sympathies, — to interweave 

Itself with other hearts, — to glow with rapture 

At another's joy, and melt in sorrow 

At another's woes." 



Gently flow'd on the waters, as the sun 

Shone on them in full hrightness ; the tall plants&gt; 

Shadowing around the little cradle, grew 

In full luxuriance. Fishes sported in the wave. 

Myriads of lovely insects fill'd the air. 

And all she saw was life and happiness : 

Her mind in deepest sympathy, — 

' Shall all things live, and Thou, the masterpiece 

Of all things living, perish ?' 



it »» 



'^ What are the splendid visions, and the hopes 
Of future days, hut renovated thoughts 
And ancient feelings awaken'd into life 
By some new accident, and tinged with hues 
Bright in the glow of passion ? Oh, my father ! 
In vain the aspiring spirit strives to pierce 
The veil of Nature, dark in mystery ; 
In vain it strives, proud in the moving force 
Of hopes and fears, to gain almighty power. 



128 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

To fonn created inteUectual worlds. 

Its inborn images have all the stamp 

Of outward things of sense. The priest's high God^ 

The Father of the thunder^ He who dwells 

In the blue heaven upon his throne of light ; 

The demon of the coward^ and the form— . 

The angel form — that to the tear-wet eye 

Of some devotion-smitten maid appears^ 

Are clad in all the attributes of man^ 

Distorted by the changeful influence 

Of passion's dreaminess." 



'' But often in the heavens my wandering eye 
Has seen the white doud vanish into forms 
Of strange unearthly lineaments. 
And often in the midnight's peaceful calm 
Have I been waked by strange unearthly tones. 
And often in the hour of sacrifice 
Felt strange ideal pleasures. 
My son ! I see thine eye is tum'd 
Most doubtingly upon my countenance. 
In youth the enthusiastic mind. 
Or sees in all realities a dim 
And visionary world ; or hardy in 
The plenitude of doubt, sees nothing 
But diat which sense affects." 



*^ He fdt a sentiment of pleasure thrill 
Within his bosom, and the liberty 
Of free unbiassed action sweeter seem'd 
Than aU the pomp and luxury of state 
And chains of ceremony. The wild majesty 
Of Nature in her noblest moimtain garb 
Came on his spirit. 

On the wild rock, and on the palm-clothed hill. 
And on the snowy mountain. Pleasure seem'd 
To fix her dwelling-place, and Music moved 
For him in every torrent's murmuring sound. 
And balmy Sweetness dwelt in every breeze. 
And every sun-beam minister'd to life." 

A poem on St MichaePs Mount, written by him at 
this time, has already been alluded to, on account of 
the excuse which he made for it: its concluding 
stanzas are descriptive of the then bias of his mind : — 

" Thus to the sweetest dreams resigned 
The fairy Fancy ruled my mind. 
And i^one upon my youth ; 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. ISQ 

But now to awful reason given^ 
I leave her dear ideal heayen 
To hear the Yoice of truth. 

*^ She claims my last, my loftiest song ; 
She leads a hrighter maid along, 

Divine Philosophy, 
Who hids the mounting soul assume 
Immortal Wisdom's eagle plume 

And penetrating eye. 

'' Ahove Delusion's dusky maze, 
Ahove deceitfid Fancy's ways 

With roses dad, to rise 
To view a gleam of purest light 
Bursting through Nature's misty night. 

The radiance of the skies ! " 



Amidst his various pursuits at Clifton, all in ac- 
cordance with his own tastes and wishes, rewarded 
by success in discoveries, by the approval and esteem 
of those around him, and by a reputation which few 
men so young ever earned, he appears to have passed 
a time of more than usual enjoyment, and to have 
indulged in sanguine hope, or rather assurance, of ad- 
vancing fortunes in life, and of greater conquests in 
science. His letters home were strongly indicative 
of this happy state of mind. In one to my mother, 
he says, " We are going on gloriously ; our patients 
are getting better j and, to be a little conceited, I am 
making discoveries every day." In another letter to 
her, speaking of Dr. Beddoes, he says, " You have 
been told he is fond of money ; I assure you it is 
quite the contrary, he is good, great, and generous ; 
and Mrs. Beddoes is the best and most amiable 
woman in the world. I am quite naturalised into the 
family, and I love them the more the more I know 
them.'* In another, after a visit to his friend, Mr. 
Gregory Watt, at Birmingham, he, as was usual with 

VOL. I. K 



ISO MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

him, couples the pleasure he experienced with praise 
of those whom he liked. He formed there an ac- 
quaintance with Mr. Keir, an able chemist, and dis- 
tinguished for much originality and independence of 
mind. *' I was particularly sorry,'* he says, " to 
leave him, for he is both an amiable and a great 
man." 

His escape from the vices which are most seduc- 
tive to youth in great cities, is feelingly described in 
the following fragment of a letter which exists in a 
note-book, addressed to one of his early home friends. 
Whether it was written at this exact time, or two or 
three years after, it is not easy to decide ; an expres- 
sion in it may seem to indicate a later period : but 
with him, who " lived intensely,*' months were as 
years. 

&lt;&lt; We can trace back our existence almost to a 
point : former time presents us with trains of thoughts 
gradually diminishing to nothing ; but our ideas of 
futurity are perpetually expanding ; our desires, and 
our hopes, even when modified by fears, seem to 
grasp at immensity. This alone would be sufiicient 
to prove the progressiveness of our nature, and that 
this little earth is but the point from which we start 
towards a perfection that is bounded only by infi^ 
nity." 

After describing the different roads they were pur- 
suing in life, he adds, &lt;&lt; I do not always look back 
upon the interval that has elapsed since I left home, 
without shuddering at the dangers to which I have 
been exposed. I was at that age when the passions 
are most powerftil ; when ambition and folly, uncon- 
trolled by experience, are the masters of the soul. 
Temptations speak every where to man in great cities^ 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 131 

which are the abodes of luxury and vice. An active 
mind, a deep ideal feeling of good, a look towards 
future greatness, has preserved me. I am thankful 
to the Spirit who is every where, that I have passed 
through the most dangerous season of my life with 
but few errors j in pursuits useful to mankind, pur- 
suits which promise to me, at some future time, the 
honourable meed of the applause of enlightened 
men." 

This prophetic feeling of distinction was soon about 
to be realised. The Royal Institution^ a short time 
previously, had been founded after a plan of Count 
Humford, with the intent of diffusing a knowledge 
of science, and of its applications to the common 
purposes of life, and of exciting a taste for science 
amongst the higher ranks. In consequence of the 
expected retirement of the professor of chemistry. 
Dr. Garnet, a successor was sought after ; and it was 
my brother's good fortune to be invited to accept the 
situation. I use the words good fortune, rather in 
relation to his scientific career, for which it was an 
admirable field, than in a money-making or merely 
worldly acceptation. In Dr. Paris's " Life '* of 
him, there are some details of the manner in which 
it is said he obtained the appointment, and through 
whose recommendation, and how the negotiation was 
carried on. His published labours, it may now be 
supposed, might alone have suflSced to recommend 
him, and, in all probability, they were the chief 
recommendation. In his own account of the trans- 
action in his letters, written in confidence to ray mo- 
ther, he makes no allusion to any interest exerted in 
his favour, or acknowledges obligation to any indivi- 
dual for aiding in obtaining him the appointment. 

K 2 



132 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

He seems to have thought that he was invited be- 
cause he was considered fitted for the situation ; and 
no doubt the preference was given to him because he 
was considered best fitted for it In a letter dated 
the 27th of September^ 1800, in which he first 
alludes to his own prospects, he merely says, " My 
future prospects are of a very brilliant nature, and 
they have become more brilliant since I last wrote to 
you ; but wherever there is uncertainty I shall refrain 
from anticipating." The following letter was written 
when the uncertainty was nearly at an end, and when 
the general terms of the appointment had been made 
on which he finally accepted it : — 

'' Slat January, 1801. 

" My DEAR Mother, 

" During the last three weeks I have been very 
much occupied by business of a serious nature. This 
has prevented me from writing to you, to my aunt, 
and to Kitty. I now catch a few moments only of 
leisure to inform you that I am exceedingly well, and 
that I have had proposals of a very flattering nature 
to induce me to leave the Pneumatic Institution for a 
permanent establishment in London. 

" You have perhaps heard of the Royal Philoso- 
phical Institution, established by Count Rumford, 
and others of the aristocracy. It is a very splendid 
establishment, and wants only a combination of 
talents to render it eminently usefuL 

" Count Rumford has made proposals to me to settle 
myself there, with the present appointment of assist- 
ant lecturer on chemistry, and experimenter to the 
Institute ; but this only to prepare the way for my 
being in a short time sole professor of chemistry, &amp;c. ; 
an appointment as honourable as any scientific ap- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 133 

pointment in the kingdom, with an income of at 
least 500/. a year. 

" I write to-day to get the specific terms of the pre* 
sent appointment, when I shall determine whether I 
shall accept of it or not. Dr. Beddoes has honour- 
ably absolved me from all engagements at the Pneu- 
matic Institution, provided I choose to quit it. How- 
ever, I have views here which I am loath to leave, 
unless for very great advantages. 

" You will all, I dare say, be glad to see me getting 
amongst the Royalists, but I will accept of no appoint- 
ment except upon the sacred terms of independence* 

# • # * • * 

" I am your most affectionate Son, 

« H. Davy." 

This letter, as appears from its date, was written on 
the 31st of January. In the middle of February he 
went to London ; and five days after he informs my 
mother, that he is " negotiating with Count Rum- 
ford concerning the professorship at the Royal Insti- 
tution." He adds, " His proposals have not been 
unfair ; and I have nearly settled the business." The 
arrangement finally made was almost precisely that 
first proposed. He returned to Bristol, to give over 
his charge of the Pneumatic Institution, and take 
leave of his kind and respected friends there ; and 
in the following month he took up his abode in 
London. 



K 3 



134 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 



CHAPTER III. 



BIS RECEPTION AS A IiECTURER AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION. SLAN- 
DEROUS CHARGES AGAINST HIM ANSWERED. PROOFS OF HIS REGARD 

FOR OLD FRIENDSHIPS. EXTRACTS EXPRESSING THE OPINIONS OP 

SOME OLD FRIENDS RESPECTING HIM. CIRCUMSTANCES FAVOURING 

HIS SUCCESS IN LECTURING. SPECIMENS OF HIS LECTURES. HIS 

MANNER OF PREPARING AND DELIVERING THEM. 



The duties upon which he entered at the Royal In- 
stitution were those of assistant lecturer on chemistry, 
and director of the laboratory ; but, according to 
the terms on which he accepted the situation, this 
was merely a temporary arrangement, and to last 
only till he had prepared himself for filling the 
higher appointment of professor of chemistry. In 
a letter to my mother, the last referred to, after 
specifying the conditions, he says, " I hope to be 
able to undertake the professorship next year ;'* and 
the next year he did undertake it. On the 31st of 
May, 1802, he was formally appointed to this office 
by a resolution of the managers. 

In the spring of 1801, six weeks after his arrival, 
he gave his first lecture. I shall transcribe an ac- 
count of it from the Philosophical Magazine^ a con- 
temporary journal. Under the head of the " Royal 
Institution of Great Britain,'* the editor remarks, — 

" It must give great pleasure to our readers to 
learn that this new and useful institution, the object 
of which is the application of science to the common 
purposes of life, may be now considered as settled 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 135 

on a firm basis. The lectures of Dr. Garnet have 
been such as do equal honour to the institution and 
the professor, and have been well attended. 

" We have also to notice a course of lectures just 
commenced at the institution, on a new branch of 
philosophy ; we mean the galvanic phenomena : on 
this interesting branch Mr. Davy (late of Bristol) 
gave the first lecture on the 25th of April. He began 
with the history of galvanism ; detailed the suc- 
cessive discoveries, and described the different me- 
thods of accumulating galvanic influence. 

* « • • • • • 

" Sir Joseph Banks, Count Rumford, and other 
distinguished philosophers, were present. The audi- 
ence were highly gratified, and testified theu* satisfac- 
tion by general applause. Mr. Davy, who appears 
to be very young, acquitted himself admirably well. 
From the sparkling intelligence of his eye, his ani- 
mated manner, and the tout ensemble, we have no 
doubt of his attaining distinguished excellence.*' • 

Dr. Paris's account of my brother's first appear- 
ance is in a very different strain ; and, to use an ex- 
pression of his own, " written by no friendly hand 
nor honest chronicler." He speaks, apparently on 
the authority of Mr. Underwood, of my brother's 
unfavourable personal appearance, at the moment 
exciting regret in the mind of Count Rumford at 
having yielded to the application of friends in his 
favour; of his uncouth appearance and address 
subjecting him to various mortifications ; of a smirk 
on his countenance, and a pertness in his manner ; 
in brief, he so speaks of him as to make a very un- 

* Phil. Magazine^ No.xxxy. p. 28L 

K 4 



I 



136 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

favourable impression on the mind of the reader, 
and to give pain to those who have any regard for 
his memory. Even if they were correct, it appears 
to me such particulars need not be recorded : it is 
ungenerously done, and in bad taste ; and, if incor- 
rect, the giving them is, in regard to biography, an 
unpardonable offence. It is in bad taste to associate 
the ludicrous and contemptible with science and 
genius ; it is unworthy of the advocate of the in- 
terests and dignity of science, for it is most in- 
jurious to them both, the more especially if done 
merely in jest. 

The quotation I have already given is sufficient 
proof, I trust, that I am not complaining in this 
instance of Dr. Paris without just grounds. Were 
it necessary, other proof to the same effect might be 
adduced. I might refer the reader to Mr. Poole's 
letter to Dr. Paris, which will be given in the 
sequel, in which he mentions my brother's "inter- 
esting conversation, manners, and appearance," when 
lie first became acquainted with him in 1799* I 
might refer the reader to another letter to Dr. Paris 
from the same gentleman, of which he favoured me 
with a copy, with his sanction to use it, written after 
reading Dr. Paris's work. The following are Mr. 
Poole's words : — • " You will excuse my making two 
or three remarks. I do not think you have done 
justice to Sir Humphry's appearance and manners 
in early life. Though his manners were retreating 
and modest, he was generally thought naturally 
graceful ; and the upper part of his face was beau- 
tiful. I remember, when he first lectured at the 
Royal Institution, the ladies said, * Those eyes were 
made for something besides poring over crucibles.' " 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 137 

This allusion to his &amp;ce was probably made in con« 
sequence of another statement of Dr. Paris, who, 
after a most unfavourable account of his youthful 
appearance, proceeds : " In riper years he was what 
might be called good-looking, although, as a wit of 
the day observed, * his aspect was certainly of the 
bucolic character ;' *' and he adds, " The change 
which his person underwent after his promotion to 
the Royal Institution was so rapid, that, in the days 
of Herodotus, it would have been attributed to no- 
thing less than the miraculous interposition of the 
priestess of Helen.'* This is as foolish as it is un- 
founded and unworthy of remark. No authority is 
given for the ridiculous assertion ; and all the authen- 
ticated notices Dr. Paris introduces of his personal 
appearance and manner when he commenced his 
career in London are in opposition to it. Such, we 
have seen, is Mr. Poole's notice of him ; such that of 
the editor of the Philosophical Magazine written at 
the time ; and such, also, is that of Mr. Purkis. 
** The sensation created by his first course of lectures 
at the Institution," says Mr. Purkis, ** and the enthu- 
siastic admiration which they obtained, is at this 
period hardly to be imagined. Men of the first 
rank and talent ; the literary and the scientific, the 
practical and the theoretical; blue stockings, and 
women of fashion ; the old and the young ; all 
crowded, eagerly crowded, the lecture room. His 
youth, his simplicity, his natural eloquence, his 
chemical knowledge, his happy illustrations, and well- 
conducted experiments, excited universal attention 
and unbounded applause. Compliments, invitations, 
and presents were showered upon him in abundance 
from all quarters ; his society was courted by all, 



138 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and all appeared proud of his acquaintance."* 
This last is given by Dr. Paris himself, and is taken 
from his work : — " By his own words shall he be 
judged." 

Had Dr. Paris confined himself to animadversions 
on my brother's person merely, they might have been 
passed by without comment ; but he proceeds far- 
ther, and takes as great liberties with his moral cha- 
racter; which he describes as suddenly and almost 
preternaturally changing for the worse, as he had 
imagined before that his personal appearance did for 
the better. In one place. Dr. Paris, after pointedly 
noticing his eminent success in his earliest efforts as 
a lecturer, even in lang uage more glowing and strong 
than Mr. Purkis himself, says, " It is admitted that his 
vanity was excited, and his ambition raised, by such 
extraordinary demonstrations of devotion ; that the 
bloom of his simplicity was dulled by the breath of 
adulation ; and that, losing much of the native frank- 
ness which constituted the great charm of his cha- 
racter, he unfortunately assumed the garb and airs of 
a man of fashion." 

Various other charges are brought against, him in 
the same offensive tone, scattered, with marvellous 
inconsistency, throughout Dr. Paris's book ; as rude- 
ness of manner, flippancy, an inordinate admiration 
of hereditary rank, arrogance, and neglect of friends. 
I shall extract one passage more, as a specimen in 
which the saying of a gentleman, who was once my 
brother's friend, but who had become cold towards 
him, is professedly reported. Dr. Paris repeats, ** It 
has been stated, that, shortly after Davy's successful 



• Dr. Paris's « Life," &amp;c. p. 90. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. ISQ 

dibiU as a lecturer, his manners underwent a change ; 
and that, to the regret of his friends, he lost much of 
his native simplicity. On the 5th of February, 1802, 
he had dined with Sir Harry Englefield at his house 
at Blackheath ; and eighteen years afterwards, the 
worthy Baronet alluded to his interesting demeanour 
on that occasion in terms suflSciently expressive of 
his feelings, — ** It was the last flash of expiring na- 
ture.'* If this were said, I may remark it carries 
its own condemnation along with it, as a monstrous 
hyperbole ; and it was as unkindly noted down as it is 
unkindly related, even if we suppose there had been 
any foundation for it : I say noted down, because Sir 
Henry Englefield died in 1822*, nine years before 
Dr. Paris's book was written. 

As I have availed myself of Mr. Poole's letter 
to Dr. Paris to repel one species of attack, I gladly 
have recourse to the same authority in vindication of 
my brother's moral character. The general tenor of 
his remarks in the letter already alluded to, is emi- 
nently fitted for the purpose ; and another letter, also 
referred to, of Mr. Poole to Dr. Paris, is equally so 
in regard to one special charge. He says, " You 
seem to imply, as his celebrity increased, that he in 
some measure discarded his old friends. I always 
loved him for his fidelity to his early friends. When 
a man has a hundred calls on his attention, he can- 
not give as much to each as when he had only 
ten." 

How does my brother write to Mr. Poole, a little 
more than a year after the time that nature is as- 

• That year my brother^ in his official capacity as President, pro- 
nounced this gentleman's eulogium before the Royal Society, as if they 
had always been friends. 



140 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

serted to have expired in him ? I quote from Dr. 
Paris's book : — 

« To Thomas Poole, Esq. 

'* London, Mayl. 1803. 

" My deab. Poole, 

" Have you no thoughts of coming to London ? 
I have always recollected the short periods that you 
have spent in town with a kind of mixed feeling of 
pleasure and regret. 

*• In the bustling activity occasioned in cities by the 
action and reaction of diversified talents, occupations, 
and passions, our existence is, as it were, broken into 
fragments ; and with you I have always wished for 
unbroken intercourse, and continuous feeling. 



" Be not alarmed, my dear friend, as to the effect of 
worldly society on my mind : the age of danger has 
passed away. There are in the intellectual being of 
all men paramount elements, certain habits and pas- 
sions, that cannot change. I am a lover of nature 
with an ungratified imagination. I shall continue to 
search for untasted charms, for hidden beauties. My 
realy my waking existence, is amongst the objects of 
scientific research. Common amusements and enjoy- 
ments are necessary to me only as dreams to inter- 
rupt the flow of thoughts too nearly analogous to 
enlighten and to vivify. 

" Your affectionate friend, 

"Humphry Davy.'* 

How does he write to Mr. Clayfield, in 1804, on 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 141 

the death of his early friend, Mr. Gregory Watt ? I 
shall quote again from Dr. Paris : — 

" I scarcely dare to write upon the subject. I would 
fain do what Hamlet does when, in awe and horror 
at the ghost of his father, he attempts to call up the 
ludicrous feeling; but, being unable to do so, he 
merely employs the words which are connected with 
it. I would be gay, or, I would write gaily, in al- 
luding to the loss we have both sustained ; but I feel 
that it is impossible. Poor Watt ! He ought not 
to have died. I could not persuade myself that he 
would die ; and until the very moment when I was 
assured of his fate, I would not believe he was in 
any danger. 

" His letters to me only three or four months 
ago were full of spirit, and spoke not of any infirmity 
of body, but of an increased strength of mind. Why 
is this in the order of nature, that there is such a 
difference in the duration, and destruction of her 
works ? If the mere stone decays, it is to produce a 
soil which is capable of nourishing the moss and the 
lichen ; when the moss and the lichen die, and de- 
compose, they produce a mould, which becomes the 
bed of life to grass, and to a more exalted species of 
vegetables. Vegetables are the food of animals ; the 
less perfect animals of the more perfect ; but in man 
the faculties and intellect are perfected. He rises, 
exists for a little while in disease and misery ; and 
then would seem to disappear, without an end, and 
without producing any effect. 

*' We are deceived, my dear Clayfield, if we sup- 
pose that the human being, who has formed himself 
for action, but who has been unable to act, is lost 
in the mass of being ; there is some arrangement of 



142 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

things which we can never comprehend, but in which 
his faculties will be applied. 

" The caterpillar, in being converted into an inert 
scaly mass, does not appear to be fitting itself for an 
inhabitant of air, and can have no consciousness of 
the brilliancy of its future being. We are masters 
of the earth ; but, perhaps, we are the slaves of some 
great and unknown beings. The fly that we crush 
with our finger, or feed with our viands, has no know- 
ledge of man, and no consciousness of his superiority. 
We suppose that we are acquainted with matter, and 
with all its elements ; and yet we cannot even guess 
at the cause of electricity, or explain the laws of the 
formation of the stones which fall from meteors. 
There may be beings, thinking beings, near us, sur- 
rounding us, which we do not perceive, which we 
can never imagine. We know veiy little ; but, in my 
opinion, we know enough to hope for the immor- 
tality, the individtcal immortality of the better part of 
man. 

" I have been led into all this speculation, which 
you may well think wild, in reflecting upon the fate 
of Gregory ! my feeling has given erring wings to 
my mind. He was a noble fellow, and would have 
been a great man. Oh I there was no reason for his 
dying — he ought not to have died. 

" Blessings wait on you, my good fellow ! Pray, re- 
member me to Tobin ; and, if you read this letter to 
him, protest the moment he begins to argue against 
the immortality of man."* 

How does he write to his early friend, Mr. Clay- 
field, in 1812, from a remote part of the Highlands ? 

• Dr. Paris's '' Life/' &amp;c., p. 128. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 143 

&lt;^ DunrobiD, near Golspie, August 28. 

" Dear Clayfield, 

" I am much obliged to you for two very kind 
letters, and for a box containing specimens from St 
Vincent. I beg you will thank the gentleman who 
was so good as to cause them to be collected for me. 
The box followed me to Inverness. The ashes, I 
think, are likely to fertilise Barbadoes. There is a 
parallel case of materials having been carried so far 
in the eruption in Iceland, in 1783. 

" I have been with my wife, making a tour through 
the north, since the beginning of July. We have 
arrived at our extreme point, and shall slowly pro- 
ceed south in about a fortnight. 

" I wish you could be of our party here. We are 
in a delightful house, that of Lord Stafford, in a 
country abounding with fish and game. I have 
caught about thirty salmon since I came here, and 
killed grouse, wild ducks, teal, &amp;c. I have not yet 
shot a stag, but I hope to do so this next week. 

" I have just published a volume of the • Elements 
of Chemistry,' and I hope to publish another in the 
course of the spring. Having given up lecturing, I 
shall be able to devote my whole time to the pursuit 
of discovery. I have not sent you a copy of my 
book, for I have thought that the best mode of avoid- 
ing giving offence to some, was by not making pre- 
sents at all. Had I not so determined, one of the 
first copies would have been sent to you, as a mark 
of the warm esteem and regard of 

" Your affectionate friend, 

** H. Davy."* 

• Dr. Paris'B " Life," &amp;c., p. 222. 



I 



144 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

How to Mr. Purkis, from the same place ? — 

^&lt; Dunrobin Casde^ August 29. 1812. 

** My Dear Purkis, 

" You may probably be surprised to receive a 
letter from me from this remote corner of the north ; 
but I owe you a letter, and I have a great inclin- 
ation, wherever I may be, to discharge all debts, and 
particularly those rendered due by kindness, 

" Receive my warm acknowledgments for your 
kind congratulations on my becoming a Benedick. I 
can now speak from experience, in which you have 
long participated. I am convinced that the natural 
state of domestic society is the best fitted for man, 
whether he be devoted to philosophy, or to active life. 

" I shall have much pleasure in presenting my 
wife to you and to Mrs. Purkis on my return. 

« We have had a delightful tour through the 
Highlands. We are at the extreme point of our 
journey. The pleasures of a refined society, that of 
Lord and Lady Stafford's family, have induced us to 
make a long pause here. We think we shall be in 
London in the beginning of December. 

" I have spent some days such as we passed toge- 
ther in Wales ; but the glens of the principality may 
fairly stand in competition with those of the High- 
lands. 

" I hope I shall find you and your family in good 
health, and that you will have spent a very pleasant 
summer. I am, my dear Purkis, 

" Very sincerely and affectionately yours, 

«H.Davy.''» 

• Dr. Paris's '' Life/' &amp;c., p. 223. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 145 

How to his family ? Many letters might be given 
in proof of his uninterrupted natural affection : I shall 
here limit myself to one to my youngest sister : — 

'' January 2. 1806. 

" My dear Sister, 

" I wish I had a flying wooden box, such a one 
as you have read of) or ought to have read of, in the 
• Arabian Nights' Entertainments ;' for then I would 
come and see you every morning, and take you an 
airing about the world, and show you all the great 
cities, and great sights, people long so much to visit, 
and so soon grow tired of when they are wise. 

" But you are happier than if you were a traveller ; 
and, I am sure, happier than if you were with Kitty 
in London ; for you are contented, and living with old 
friends, whom, I am sure, you will always be wise 
enough to prefer to new ones. You do not know 
how much I was delighted with what I saw of your 
conduct whilst I was at home. Your strong affection 
for my mother, your love for John, your attention to 
all your duties, gave me the warmest pleasure. I 
hope you will always be as good, and as unaffected, • ' 
and as happy as you are now ; and that you will enjoy 
all the blessings that Heaven can bestow upon you. 

" I trust, my dear girl, that you will endeavour to 
improve yourself in writing, and that you will perse- 
vere till you can spell and write very correctly. I 
shall be very glad to have you for a correspondent ; 
and I will answer every correct and well-written 
letter that you send me. 

" I enclose a one-pound note, which you will lay 
out in books, or in any thing else that you like. I 
enclose another one-pound note, which I wish to have 

VOL. I. L. 



146 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

■ 

disposed of in the following manner, for me : — To 
Mary Launder, 5s. ; to Betty White, 5^.; and with the 
rest you will buy some ribbands, or little articles of 
dress for the Doctor's Jenny, my aunt Sampson's 
Phillis, my aunt Millefs maid, and my mother's 
servant, as new year's gifts. 

" I am, dear Betsy, 

" Your affectionate Friend and Brother, 

« H. Davy." 

To whom does he dedicate his last works ? One 
he dedicates to Dr. Babington, " in remembrance of 
some delightful days passed in his society, and in 
gratitude for an uninterrupted friendship of a quarter 
of a century;" and the other to Mr. Poole, "in 
remembrance of thirty years of continued and 
faithful friendship." 

What does Mr. Knight say of him? who had 
known him almost as long as Mr. Poole, and who 
was in the habit of meeting him in the circles of 
science, as well as of fashion, in the metropolis, and 
of receiving his visits in his own beautiful country 
retirement. I shall again quote from Dr. Paris: — 

" My late lamented friend. Sir Humphry Davy, 
usually paid me a visit in the autumn, when he chiefly 
amused himself in angling for grayling, a fish which 
he appeared to take great pleasure in catching. He 
seemed to enjoy the repose and comparative solitude 
of this place, where he met but few persons, except 
those of our own family ; for we usually saw but little 
company. He always assured me that he passed his 
visits agreeably ; and I have reason to believe he ex- 
pressed his real feelings. In the familar convers- 
ations of those friendly visits, he always appeared to 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 147 

me to be a much more extraordinary being than even 
his writings and vast discoveries would have led me 
to suppose him ; and in the extent of intellectual 
powers, I shall ever think that he lived and died 
without an equal.'** 

Lastly, whom did he remember in his will, and to 
whom did he bequeath tokens of affection ? Out of 
his own family, they were chiefly his early friends : 
as Mr. Poole, Dr. Babington, Mr. Pepys, Dr. Frank, 
Sir B. Brodie, and two or three more, from whom 
he had received kindnesses in later life, as Dr. 
Morichini of Rome, and Monsignor Spada MedicLt 

There might have been, and I believe there were, 
two or three instances of individuals, to whom he 
had a very friendly feeling in youth, which he did 
not retain in his mature age — not in consequence of 
fickleness of disposition, or fault on his part, but 
owing to change in them, or conduct which did not 
meet his approval. I shall mention only one in par- 
ticular, — Mr. Underwood, an artist of some talent, 
with a fondness for science, from whom Dr. Paris 
appears to have received very many unfavourable 
notices of my brother, incidents and anecdotes, 
which, even if true, no true friend would have com- 
municated of another. Witness the letter which 
Mr. Underwood communicated, written by my bro- 
ther, evidently in a moment of enthusiasm and 
friendly confidence, and which Dr. Paris calls " a 



• Dr. Paris's " Life/' kc, p. 203. 

t This most amiable and accomplished man was noticed in a letter 
from my brother^ dictated when he supposed himself dying, — the same 
letter in which he requested that 100/. should be given to the Grammar. 
School of Penzance on the condition of the boys having a holiday an- 
nually on his birthday. The bequest to Monsignor Spada was a gold 
8niiff-box which he forwarded himself to him. 

L 2 



148 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

composition of much wildness, and obnoxious to the 
suspicion of Spinozism ;'* with how much propriety, 
I shall leave to the candid reader to decide, if there 
is any candid reader who attaches importance to a 
careless effusion of youthful feeling: — 

" My dear Underwood, 
" That part of Almighty God which resides in 
rocks and woods, in the blue and tranquil sea, in the 
clouds and sunbeams of the sky, is calling upon thee 
with a loud voice, — religiously obey its commands, 
and come, and worship with me, on the ancient 
altars of Cornwall. I shall leave Bristol on Thurs- 
day next, possibly, before ; so that by this day week 
I shall, probably, be at Penzance. Ten days or a 
fortnight after, I shall expect to see you, and to re- 
joice with you. 

. ** We will admire together the wonders of God, — 
rocks and the sea, — dead hills, and living hills, co- 
vered with verdure. Amen. Write to me immedi- 
ately, and say when you will come. Direct, H. Davy, 
Penzance. Farewell, being of energy ! 

" Yours, with unfeigned affection, 

"H.Davy.*'* 

Witness Mr. Underwood's anecdote, of the diffi- 
culty which, he says, my brother experienced, on first 
going to London, in answering, to his own satisfac- 
tion, an invitation to dinner ; a difficulty which most 
young men have probably experienced on first 
coming out into the world, merely from an ignorance 
of forms of etiquette, and which most affects sensitive 
minds.t Witness the various anecdotes which Mr. 

• Dr. Paris's ^'Life/' &amp;c., p. 82. t Idem, p. 81. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 149 

Underwood gives of him during his visit to Paris in 
1813, such as his contempt of the fine arts in the gal- 
leries of the Louvre (which I cannot credit, for he had 
a sincere admiration of fine art, — his contempt, I be- 
lieve, was confined to the cant of artists); — his sudden, 
capricious, and violent *' likes and dislikes ; '* — the 
conversion of his friendly feeling towards M. Ampfere, 
some years after, into one of bitter aversion, which I d© 
not believe true* ; — Mr. Underwood's idle story of 
my brother's testifying superstitious dislike at seeing a 
knife and fork placed crosswise on a plate at dinner t ; 

* When I was in Paris^ in the latter end of 1826^ this gentleman ex- 
pressed great regard and respect for my hrother^ and sent hy me to 
him copies of some of his recent productions ; and towards M. Ampere 
I never heard my brother express the least hostile feeling ; nor is Uiere 
such feeling expressed in a sketch of his character^ written during the 
last year of his life^ amongst the characters of distinguished men of his 
own time whom he had known. 

t If he had a tincture of superstition^ it was not in the vulgar sense ; 
but with philosophical views^ arising out of the limited nature of human 
knowledge^ his acquaintance with the wonders of nature^ and a belief^ 
founded on both^ that there may be in the economy of nature circum- 
stances necessarily or constantly associated^ that is^ in the relation of 
cause and effect^ which are not yet understood^ and which the half-in- 
formed and conceited laugh at^ and pronounce monstrous or impossible. 
In his ^' Salmonia ** he says, in the person of Physicus (he was then 
expressing his own sentiments on the subject)^ in reply to a remark of 
Hallieus^ that he had known minds of a very superior class^ persons in 
the habit of reasoning deeply and profoundly^ affected by what are com- 
monly considered superstitions. In reply, he says, ^^In my opinion^ 
profound minds are the most likely to think lightly of the resources 
of human reason : it is the pert superficial thinker who is generally 
strongest in every kind of unbelief. The deep philosopher sees chains 
of causes and effects so wonderfully and strangely linked together, that 
he is usually the last person to decide upon the impossibility of any 
two series of events being independent of each other ; and in science so 
many natural miracles, as it were, have been brought to lights — such as 
the fall of stones from meteors in the atmosphere, the disarming a 
bunder cloud by a .metallic point, the production of fire from ice by a 
metal white as silver, and referring certain laws of motion of the sea to 
the moon, -^ that the physical inquirer is seldom disposed to assert confi- 
dently on any abstruse subject belonging to the order of natural things;; 
and still less so on those relating to the more mysterious relations of 
moral events and intellectual natures." 

L 3 



150 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

-—the statement of his flippancy of manner, and su- 
perciliousness of deportment towards French men 
of science, which I consider as a fiction, and which 
is attempted to be defended by Dr. Paris in a very 
strange and offensive way; and, lastly, the detail 
of minute and most trifling circumstances, in which 
it is supposed my brother gave offence, — such as 
his not rising from his chair, or saluting one of the 
most distinguished members of the Institute. 

That my brother had ceased to esteem Mr. Under- 
wood in the latter part of his life, I am well informed ; 
indeed, he refused to see him when he called on my 
brother, during his illness at Rome, when I was with 
him. This I should not have considered myself 
justified in noticing, had not Mr. Underwood been 
instrumental,* as appears from Dr. Paris's book, in 
casting a stain on his moral character, which as far as 
lies in my power it is my duty to remove. On this 
subject, I should have supposed that the evidence 
of such men as Mr. Poole and Mr. Knight might 
have more than balanced, with an impartial bio- 
grapher, that of Mr. Underwood, who during the 
last thirty years has lived abroad, and in circum- 
stances unfavourable for improving his judgment of 
human nature, at least in its noblest exertions in 
freedom, and without disguise. 

This may suffice at present : further on I shall re- 
vert to the topic ; and, as I proceed, I shall have 
occasion to bring forward evidence on evidence in 
opposition to Dr. Paris's allegation, or hypothesis, of 
the deterioration and fall of my brother's moral qua- 
lities with the improvement and exaltation of his in- 
tellectual powers and rank in society. 

It is now time to advert more particularly to the 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 151 

great success of his early lectures. The following 
letter, written in January, 1802, when, to use an ex- 
pression of Sir Harry Englefield's, he was " covered 
with glory *,*' at the beginning of his second course, 
expresses very modestly his own feeling of satisfac- 
tion at the manner in which his exertions were re- 
ceived, and how, even at this time, when there was 
so much to divert his attention from his distant home, 
his affections kindled at the recollection of home ; 
and this at the very time when they were supposed 
to be expiring : — 

" London. 

** My dear Mother, 

" I have been very busy in the preparation for my 
lectures ; and for this reason I have not written to 
you. I delivered my second lecture to-day, and was 
very much flattered to find the theatre overflowing 
at this, as well as at the first. I am almost surprised 
at the interest taken by so many people of rank, in 
the progress of chemical philosophy ; and 1 hope I 
am doing a great deal of good, in being the means of 
producing and directing the taste for it 

«« I have been perfectly well since I visited Corn- 
wall ; and I enter upon my campaign in high health 
and spirits. After four months of hard but pleasant 
labour, I shall again be free ! 

" I hope you are all well. I very often reflect 
upon the times that are past ; and my mind is always 
filled with gratitude to the Supreme Being, who has 
made us all happy ; and that, in placing us in distant 
parts, and in different circles, neither our feelings or 
affections have been disturbed. 

• Dr. Paris's '' Life/' Ac, p. 89. 
L 4 



152 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

" My predictions with regard to invasion, you will 
find, have been so far fulfilled. God has not in- 
tended this favoured island to be desolated by un- 
principled ruffians ; nor has he intended that the 
great, the good, and the brave amongst our country, 
men should be placed upon a level, and brought 

into the field to meet the banditti of France, — 
* * • • • * 

" I shall be very glad to see you again. I intend, 
in June, to pass through Scotland, and to visit the 
Western Isles ; but I hope I shall spend a part of the 
autumn with you. 

" Pray write to me, and give me a little news. 
Beg Kitty, and Grace, and Betsy, and John to re- 
collect me. I am, my dear mother, 

" Your very affectionate son, 

" H. Davy.'' 

Dr. Paris, I perceive, adopts an opinion from Mr. 
Underwood, that my brother was mainly indebted for 
his early popularity as a lecturer at the Royal Insti- 
tution to an anti-royal coterie, of the " most violent 
republicans of the day," called the " Tepidarian So- 
ciety," from the potations at their meetings being con- 
fined to tea. He says, " The Tepidarians exerted all 
their personal influence to obtain an audience, before 
the reputation of the lecturer could have been suffi- 
ciently known to attract one."* This, I may remark, is 
of a piece with many other of his inconsistent asser- 
tions, as if the few members of this comparatively 
humble and little-known society, which held its 
meetings at Old Slaughter's Coffee-house, in St. 

• Dr. PariB'B "Life " &amp;c, p. 80. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 153 

Martin's Lane, had a superior influence in the world 
of fashion to that of the aristocracy which founded 
and supported the Royal Institution. If we are to 
be guided by probabilities in our reasoning, it is 
more probable that the exertions of such a society, if 
their principles were known, would have been in- 
jurious to his reputation and name. His own princi- 
ples were certainly very different from theirs, as the 
preceding letter to my mother sufficiently indicates. 
I never heard him mention this society ; and I suspect, 
if he ever belonged to it, it was only whilst he was 
ignorant of their ultra principles. 

His success as a lecturer was owing to far different 
causes, such as those pointed out by Mr. Purkis: 
&lt;&lt; His youth, his simplicity, his natural eloquence, his 
chemical knowledge, his happy illustrations, and well- 
conducted experiments." To which may be added 
other circumstances connected with the Institution ; 
the period and the state of science, all of an auspicious 
kind. The Royal Institution was a new experiment. 
Novelty in itself is delightful, especially to people of 
rank and fortune, who at that time, in consequence of 
the Continent's being closed, owing to the war, must 
have been delighted to have had opened to them a 
new and unexpected source of interest, fitted to 
amuse those who were suffering from enntUf and to 
instruct those who were anxious for instruction. The 
Koyal Institution, moreover, was the creation of a 
large number of influential persons, both in the higher 
ranks of society, and of science. This alone might 
have sufficed to render it fashionable, and, if fashion- 
able, popular. The period, morally and poUtically 
considered, aided the effect : a time of great political 
excitement had just terminated ; a time of gloom 



154 MEMOIB8 OF TflE LIFE OF 

and despondency was then commencing. Whatever 
diverted the public mind, and afforded new objects of 
contemplation, pure and independent sources of 
amusement and gratification, must have been veiy 
welcome to all reflecting persons, even without 
taking into account the possible and probable good 
which might be conferred by the Institution on 
society, in accordance with the intentions with which 
it was first established : and the state of science gene- 
rally, and especially of chemical science, was, perhaps, 
the most auspicious circumstance of all. It had 
passed the stage of feeble infancy ; it was just en- 
tering on that of vigorous youth ; it was sufficiently 
advanced to display much beauty, and to excite 
deep interest ; and it was not too much advanced 
to be beyond the comprehension of minds of ordin- 
ary powers devoting to it a moderate portion of time. 
Besides, chemistry had just then begun to form con- 
nections, which immediately enhanced its value and 
attractions, particularly with mineralogy and geology, 
with vegetable and animal physiology, and with the 
useful arts of life. It had served to explain the for- 
mation of basalt and of marble; and it was confidently 
expected that it would throw much light on the 
structure and formation of our globe generally. It 
had elucidated one function of plants and animals — 
the important one of respiration ; and it was hoped 
that it might be extended, in a similar manner, to the 
other functions of animal and vegetable life. It had 
afforded a rational theory for many of the arts, and 
had contributed to improve many of them : the steam-- 
engine it had perfected ; the balloon and diving-bell 
were essentially chemical inventions : there appeared 
no limits to the extension of its usefulness. Lastly* 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 155 

I may allude to its connection with imponderable 
substances, as with light, heat, electricity, and espe- 
cially that form of electricity which had just then 
been discovered — galvanism, which, more than all 
the rest, was destined to increase the interests and 
extend the dominions of chemistry, and enlarge the 
circle of human knowledge. 

Here are circumstances amply sufficient to ac- 
count for his rapid and brilliant success at the Insti- 
tution, as lecturer, without having recourse, with Dr. 
Paris, to the aid of a Tepidarian Society ; and if I 
am not mistaken, this will appear more manifest from 
the specimens of his lectures which I now propose to 
submit to the reader, and which I shall select from 
the MS. collection in my possession. In making 
the selection, it will be advisable to observe some 
order, and rather in regard to the subject, or matter, 
than the time. I shall first give some specimens to 
show his power of exciting the interest of a mixed 
audience ; secondly the facility, and I may say 
felicity, with which he inculcated philosophical 
doctrines, the philosophy of science, and the me- 
thods of scientific research ; thirdly, how he added 
to the interest of his subject, and enforced the doc- 
trines by biographical notices, in giving which he was 
most generous of praise, and as sparing of censure as 
if he had considered the illustrious scientific dis- 
coverers who had preceded him in the light of 
parents, to whom a debt of gratitude, as from a son 
to a father, was owing, and a tender respect; and, 
fourthly, I shall advert to his manner of treating the 
sciences which he taught ; how he blended the new 
with the old ; and, by transferring the results of the 
laboratory to the theatre, in all their freshness, im- 



156 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

parted to his lectures much of the charm and vigour 
of original discourses ; by which means he was enabled 
to fix the attention even of the philosopher and man 
of science. 

An " Introductory Lecture for the Courses of 
1805** is the earliest lecture in MS. which has been pre- 
served : both from its appellation and matter, it was 
evidently delivered at the commencement of the ses- 
sion, at the Royal Institution ; and was not an intro- 
duction to his own lectures in particular, but to the 
lectures generally, on various subjects of science, 
literature, and the arts, which were to be given 
during the season. I shall insert the whole of it. 
It is peculiar in manner, and in tone, and peculiarly 
his ; and adapted — not only at the time it was deliv- 
ered, but in all times — to excite a taste for scientific 
pursuits, and stimulate intellectual exertion ; and it 
offers a powerful defence of the interests of science 
in immutable connection with the best interests of 
society : — 

" INTRODUCTORY LECTURE FOR THE COURSES 

OF 1805. 

"The love of knowledge and of intellectual power 
is a faculty belonging to the human mind in every 
state of society ; and it is one by which it is most justly 
characterised — one the most worthy of being culti- 
vated and extended. 

" Useful to the individual, and even necessary to 
his existence, its general effects upon the species are 
in the highest degree important and beneficial ; and 
the improvements in the condition and in the happi- 
ness of mankind appear in all instances to have pre- 
served an uniform pace with the progress of the in- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 157 

ventions of the arts, and the advancement in the 
sciences. 

" This truth scarcely requires any demonstration. 
To prove it, there is no necessity for recurring to any 
refined arguments : the mere comparison of the rude, 
and of the cultivated state of society, must carry con- 
viction to every unprejudiced understanding. In 
the dreams of a brilliant imagination, indeed, the 
uncivilised state of man may appear in high and vivid 
tints of happiness; and the fancy of an enthusiast may 
enable him to draw strong contrasts between nature 
and art unfavourable to the latter; between blue 
skies, verdant groves, murmuring streams, the scenery 
of a mountain country, and the smoke and dirt of 
towns, the noise and bustle of commerce, and the 
insipidity of productive plains ; between the earth 
wildly and spontaneously producing food, and grounds 
made fertile only by human labour; between the 
vices, miseries, and dependance of man in society, 
and his simple virtues, his lofly pastoral manners, 
and his unsubdued freedom in the condition of 
nature. 

Such romantic pictures, though they should be 
adorned with the highest colouring of genius, can, 
however, scarcely in the slightest degree affect the 
opinion of sound and judicious reasoners. The de- 
tails of past times, the narrations of travellers, or even 
a simple observation of the habits and propensities of 
the human mind, are sufficient to demonstrate that 
its highest enjojrments are connected with an active 
state of the understanding, and an exalted social in- 
tercourse, — are sufficient to demonstrate that the be- 
ing whose pleasures are only produced by the grati- 
fication of his common wants, and whose wants 



158 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

are constantly limited by the poverty of nature, can 
never be justly opposed to the man whose delights 
are in a great measure conformable to his wishes ; 
whose intellectual gratifications are even more nume- 
rous than his appetites, and whose mind is the master 
of his body, and not its slave. 

" Many speculative men, whose minds have been 
awake to the advantages of improvement, have never- 
theless conceived that, in all cases, there must be cer- 
tain limits to the progress of civilisation, — have con- 
ceived that the sciences and the arts, however 
beneficial in their first effects, must finally tend to 
enfeeble the character, and to promote the increase 
of luxury. Such persons have generally founded 
their opinions upon incorrect views of the history of 
ancient nations; and, haunted by ideas of their 
rapid elevation and downfall, have believed that the 
same powers operate in modern times, and that the 
germs of the ruin of states exist in those very causes 
which have produced their greatness. That power, 
riches, and leisure are essential to a great extension 
of philosophy and literature, and that they are like- 
wise oflen the causes of vice and depravation, cannot, 
indeed, be denied; but a few facts, derived even 
from the history of the empires of antiquity, will dis- 
tinctly show, that the influences of the arts and 
sciences, in great and wealthy states, tend rather 
to depress than to promote common luxury; and 
that those periods the most distinguished by eleva- 
tion of moral character, by the social virtues, and by 
the higher feelings of the soul, were likewise the 
periods, in which philosophy and letters were most 
cultivated, and in which the fine arts were ardently 
pursued. The most happy period of Grecian civilisa- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 159 

tioQ is that between the first Persian, and the 
second Feloponnesian, war. It was at the beginning 
of this period that literature and science made their 
first progrees in Greece j and at the time that they 
were studied with the greatest ardour, the patriotic 
spirit and the heroical virtue of the people were re- 
vealed in their full splendour. It was at the begin- 
ning of this period when Anaxagoras was instructing 
the youth of Athens in speculative philosophy ; when 
Hippocrates was laying the foundations of medical 
science ; when Democritus was pursuing the paths of 
experimental inquiry. It was at the same time that 
the minds of the inhabitants of Attica were kindling 
with the poetic feeling raised by the immortal genius 
of Homer. It was at the same time that they prose- 
cuted their most active war of liberty against the 
Persians ; that Miltiades and Themistocles led on 
their troops to conquest. It was at the same time 
that Leonidas and his 300 Spartans fell at Thermo- 
pylae, martyrs in the cause of freedom, and glorying 
that they were permitted to die for their country. 
It was towards the close of this period that sculp- 
ture, painting, and the arts of life flourished in full 
vigour. It was at this time that the chisel of Phidias 
raised out of the rude marble forms of majesty and 
grace. It was at this time that the same dramatic 
poet, Sophocles — whose immortal compositions will 
ever continue as models of excellence — appeared as 
a warrior and conqueror at the head of armies ; and 
that the same philosopher, who was called the wisest 
of men, endured all the hardships that the life of a 
common soldier can ofier. And, perhaps, the cha- 
racter of the age can scarcely be better delineated 
than in one of the incidents in which he was th&amp; 



■ 

I 



160 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

acton Alcibiades, his disciple, was wounded in the 
battle of Delium. Socrates carried him on his 
shoulders, defended him, and dared, at the same 
moment, to expose his life for his friend and his 
country. 

" Traits of a very different character marked the 
later periods of the republics of Greece ; and, at the 
era when they were about to resign their liberties to 
the power of Macedon, the sciences and arts no 
longer flourished in their ancient seats, but had 
passed into the country of the conqueror. At this 
time Aristotle was obliged to fly from Athens ; and a 
law was passed to prevent any teacher of philosophy 
from opening a school in that city, which had before 
been the theatre of her glory. Luxury and sen- 
suality only occupied the minds of the people ; and 
no persons were distinguished by public approbation 
except such as gave great entertainments, or such as 
possessed fortunes which enabled them to gamble 
largely; and, as we are informed by Athenaeus, the year 
before the invasion of Philip, the freedom of the city, 
(an honour which before had been bestowed only upon 
potentates, warriors, and philosophers) was given to 
two young men, whose only merit was that their 
father had been one of the best cooks in the com- 
monwealth. 

" The same principles might be illustrated by ex- 
amples from many other nations. Rome affords as 
many instances, and of precisely the same kind as 
Greece. And at a later period, the elevation, pro- 
gress, and the decline of the power of the Arabians 
depended upon similar causes. 

" The only time at which this last people were truly- 
great and happy, was at the time in which literature 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. l6l 

and science were patronised by Almanor and his sue* 
cessors, the caliphs of Bagdad. At the moment 
that the desire of intellectual improvement disap- 
peared, the savage and sensual spirit of the religion 
of Mahomet carried its followers on to ruin, even 
amidst the triumphs of conquest ; and the progress of 
the crescent, at first marked by victory and desola^ 
tion, soon finished in ignorance and debility. All 
experience, all analogy, decidedly proves that, unless 
power and riches are employed for increasing the 
sources of mental gratification, and for keeping alive 
the activity of the soul, their tendency must be evil ; 
and all the elder nations, who have fallen from great- 
ness, have offered before their ruin similar charac- 
ters : wealth without science, improving manufactures, 
or commerce ; the few the conquerors of the many*; 
and great cities peopled only with soldiers, with rich 
men, with parasites, and slaves. 

*^ The refinements of the useful or ornamental arts 
in modem times bear no relation to the luxuries of 
the civilised nations of antiquity ; and, as they are 
at present pursued, they are amongst the first causes 
of the general improvement of society; for they 
not only promote individual comfort, but they afford 
constant objects for employment : they preserve the 
love of invention ; they promote emulation, and the 
desire of excellence, amongst the labourers in the 
same department ; and they tend to unite the dif- 
ferent classes of society by ties of usefulness, of 
mutual dependence, and of mutual advantage. 

" To the superficial observer, the attempt to extend 
the refinements of inventions beyond that state in 
which they are fitted for all the useful purposes of 

VOL. I. M 



162 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

life, may appear wholly unnecessary ; but it should be 
remembered, that, in aiming at perfection in a manu-&gt; 
facture, the workman is constantly improving himself; 
and in attempting to produce articles which are to 
sell at a high price, he makes a number much better 
than they would otherwise be, which are disposed of 
at a moderate rate. A finely polished knife, for in- 
stance, which costs a guinea, may not have a better 
edge than one which sells for a shilling only ; but 
the cutler who has produced the expensive knife, 
from his accurate acquaintance with his art, gained 
from habit and laborious operation, is able to make 
the common knife better, and at a lower rate. A 
thousand cases of the same kind might be adduced. 
The elegant models of the Etruscan vases, produced 
by the ingenuity of the late excellent Mr. Wedge- 
wood, may be said to have no immediate application 
to common uses ; but yet, in consequence of their in- 
vention, a spirit of imitation and of emulation has 
operated upon every branch of the porcelain manu- 
facture, and even the forms and composition of our 
common pitchers and common flower-pots have, in 
consequence, been improved. 

" In certain departments of industry still greater 
advantages result from the constant attempts to attain 
the highest degrees of excellence. Examine agricul- 
ture. No person who understands the luxuries of 
the table will assert that a sheep rendered enormously 
fat in rich pasture, or on turnips, is better, or a greater 
luxury, than one that has grazed on the aromatic 
herbage of the Welch mountains; — but in the at- 
tempt U&gt; produce this well-fed animal, which, perhaps, 
gains the prize at Smithfield, a number of others 
have been improved to a less extent, and rendered, 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, l63 

in consequence, more adapted to common use. And 
the high price of well-fed cattle has awakened the 
feeling of emulation amongst farmers, in consequence 
of which the nature of the best breeds of cattle has 
been studied ; the manner in which they can be most 
efficaciously nourished considered ; and, from the ex- 
tension of such inquiries, all the principles of farming 
have been more minutely investigated, and the art 
of cultivating land improved, and adorned with new 
discoveries. The principle is general : whenever ma- 
nufactures or any productions of art become articles 
of general consumption, the higher and more ex- 
pensive refinements of them are absolutely necessary, 
not merely for their improvement, but likewise to 
prevent their decline. 

" All parts of the system of commerce are intimately 
connected. Honourably acquired wealth in such a 
country as that in which we have the happiness to live, 
— - honourably acquired wealth, I say, produces credit, 
and from credit arises capital capable of an extent 
almost indefinite. Hence proceeds the division of 
labour ; hence the invention of machinery ; hence the 
circulation of wealth and power from one extremity 
of the empire to the other; and communicating, 
Uke the vital blood flowing through the vessels, to 
every part health and strength. Hence all the pro- 
ductions of the globe are made subservient to the 
uses of man ; and nature arises subdued by artificial 
means, not impoverished or deformed, but enriched, 
and rendered more beautiful. 

" The useful arts in modem times have attained an 
infinitely higher degree of perfection than in the most 
splendid eras of antiquity ; and the improvements and 
extension of the sciences will admit of no parallel 

M 2 



l64 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

instances. That light of knowledge, which was only 
dimly perceived by the ancients, which was obscured 
by the clouds of error and of prejudice, has appeared 
to us in all its purity and brightness; and whilst 
Nature, and the order established by the Author of 
Nature, have been to a great extent developed, the 
science of man has not been neglected. The works 
which awaken the imagination and exalt the feelings 
have preserved all their effect upon the mind. By 
means of experiment a new creation, as it were, of 
facts have appeared — of facts as much superior to 
mere speculations as things can be to words. Letters, 
the great instruments of thought, have assisted sci- 
ence, and science has given new objects and new 
forms for adorning and extending literature. All the 
different branches of knowledge have assisted each 
other, and, like different instruments of music, the 
sounds of which combine in harmony, they have all 
co-operated in enlightening the mind, in extending its 
enjoyments, and in exalting the state of social life. 

** Though so magnificent a structure has been raised 
in science rapidly, and as if by a kind of enchant^ 
ment, yet it is still unfinished, and new labours, and 
new efforts of ingenuity, are required both for orna- 
menting and extending it, and for preventing any of 
its parts from falling into decay. Knowledge is like 
a river, which, unless its springs are constantly sup- 
plied, soon becomes exhausted, and ceases to flow 
on, and to fertilise. The mind requires novelty 
even as a stimulus to exertion ; and the philosopher 
who has made a discovery in natural science, or the 
author of a work of genius in art or in literature, 
is a benefactor, not only to the present generation, 
but likewise to fiiture ages ; for he gratifies that 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 165 

faculty of enjoyment which is pure and intellectual, 
and which must be more exalted as society becomes 
more improved. 

" Very few persons in the present day are disposed 
to reason against the advantages resulting from the 
higher refinements of science and philosophy, and 
the only argument that can be brought forward is 
one founded upon the doctrine of common utility* 
When a new fact, for instance, is ascertained in 
chemistry, or in electricity, the superficial observer 
is very apt to slight it, if it does not immediately 
admit of some application to the common wants of 
life. This, however, is very unfair ; for all experience 
proves that the greatest and most important inven- 
tions which have arisen from scientific principles 
have never been ascertained till long after the prin- 
ciples themselves were developed ; and so intimately 
connected are all the objects of human inquiry, and 
80 much dependent upon the sensible properties of 
bodies, that it is scarcely possible that any great 
theoretical improvement can be made without being 
soon accompanied with practical advantages. A 
newly-discovered country ought not to be neglected, 
though it cannot be immediately brought into cul- 
tivation, because it does not immediately produce 
com, and wine, and oil. 

** But, independently of these considerations, all 
truths in nature, all inventions by which they can 
be developed, are worthy of our study, for their own 
sake, rather than with any idea of profit or interest. 
Whatever can enlarge the views of the mind, raise 
new sentiments of intellectual pleasure, or make us 
acquainted with new properties and powers in the 
substances surrounding us, is in the highest degree 

M 3 



166 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

worthy of the pursuit of a being whose noblest facul- 
ties are reason and the love of knowledge. 

** All the discoveries, all the works of human genius, 
are of great importance to the community ; but that 
their full effects may be produced, it is necessary that 
the public mind be prepared to enjoy them, and to es- 
timate their advantages. The general diffusion of let- 
ters and philosophy is necessary to the progress of the 
higher inventions of the mind ; for unless the labours 
of men of ingenuity meet with public support and 
approbation, they can never be actively pursued, and 
must soon languish and die. All minds require hope 
to animate them to exertion, and the desire of glory 
is one the most common to great and elevated under- 
standings. The increase of general knowledge must 
uniformly produce the general patronage of letters 
and philosophy, and this is a most excellent and im- 
portant end. Men of genius, in former times, have 
often languished in obscurity, not because their merits 
were neglected, but because they were not under- 
stood. This, however, can scarcely happen in the 
present day, in which all sources of useful inform- 
ation are laid open, and in which unparalleled exer- 
tions have been made in the higher classes of society 
to diffuse improvement, and to promote all objects of 
inquiry which can benefit or enlighten the public 
There are other uses, still greater uses, resulting from 
the communication of general and popular science. 
By means of it vulgar errors and common prejudices 
are constantly diminished. It offers new topics for 
conversation, and new interests in life. In solitude, 
it affords subjects for contemplation, and for an active 
exercise of the understanding, and in cities, it assists 
the cause of religion and morality, by preventing the 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. I67 

increase of gross luxury and indulgence in vicious dis- 
sipation. Man is designed for an active being ; and his 
i^irit, ever restless, if not employed upon worthy and 
dignified objects, will ojften rather engage in mean 
and low pursuits than suffer the tedious and listless 
feelings connected with indolence ; and knowledge is 
no less necessary in strengthening the mind, than in 
preserving the purity of the affections and the heart 

&lt;&lt; Some few arguments are now and then brought 
forward against the efficacy of popular instruction. 
It is urged, that superficial and general knowledge 
often tends to produce pedantry, and that persons 
who are only imperfectly learned are sometimes vain 
and presumptuous. With regard to the chaige of 
pedantry, it can only be applied to the half-taught in 
manners, as well as in science ; and, in such a refined 
period as this in which we live, it is scarcely possible 
that such a folly can flourish. What is sometime^ 
called pedantry, indeed, may depend upon the ignor- 
ance of the many, as compared with the knowledge 
of the few; but the moment the language of science 
becomes the common language of refined society, 
every feeling of this kind must cease ; and till that 
event takes place, the person must be very, very de- 
ficient in common sense, who endeavours to astonish 
by a parade of knowledge ; and who, being in posses- 
sion of a li^t, chooses rather to employ it for dazzling 
the eyes of others, than to use it for his own guidance, 

" That persons who are only beginning to attend to 
the principles of science often overrate their acquire* 
ments and abilities, cannot . be denied ; but this is a 
circumstance of very little importance, and seldom of 
much permanence. In every well-regulated mind 
false confidence cannot be of £Uiy long duration* 

M 4 



168 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Vanity almost always carries with it a certain cure. 
Disappointment soon follows the ardent hopes of wild 
presumption, and, in a sound understanding, the con* 
viction of having been once mistaken generally pro- 
duces discretion and caution, which daily become 
more habitual, which direct the mind in its judg- 
ments, and which, when combined with feeling, 
become the foundation of a just and accurate taste. 

** All human knowledge is necessarily imperfect ; 
but the further it extends, the better are its effects. No 
efforts made for the attainment of truth ought to be 
slighted. Lofty ideas are often connected by man 
even with his weakness and follies : how much more 
ought they to arise from his strength and his wisdom ! 
His powers are often wasted in attempts to obtain 
trifles, which vanish or cease to delight at the moment 
they are in his possession ; and we ought always to 
rejoice when those powers are applied to objects 
which are permanent, and connected with true glory. 
Man is formed for pure enjoyments ; his duties are 
high, his destination is lofty; and he must, then, be 
most accused of ignorance and folly when he grovels 
in the dust, having wings which can carry him to the 
skies.'* 

Aft;er this Lecture on the advantages of knowledge, 
and the cultivation of the intellect generally, I find 
another, for which this is a suitable place, introduc- 
tory to his course on the " Chemistry of Nature^'* 
written, as it is noted, on the SOth of January, 1807» to 
be delivered on the 31st. This was intended to re- 
commend especially the study of chemistry as a 
philosophical pursuit to liberal minds; and to this 
end it is well fitted by the display of the vast extent 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. lOO 

and resources of chemistry ; how the most remarkable 
phenomena of the physical world are within the 
sphere of its power ; and how it is impossible to un- 
derstand any of the various changes which are per* 
petually taking place around us in nature, without 
reference to the principles of this science* He had 
then completed the &lt;&lt; Electro-Chemical Researches,*' 
which were published in his Bakerian Lecture for 
1806 ; and had the firmest confidence that the career 
of discovery was only commenced in this department 
of knowledge, and that other discoveries were about 
to be made of the most important kind, to which, 
even in imagination, he could see no limits. 



« INTRODUCTORY LECTURE TO THE CHEMISTRY OF 

NATURE. 

*^ Dependent upon the forms and beings of external 
nature for the gratification of our wants, and for 
many of our comforts and enjoyments, we habitually 
acquire from individual experience a certain degree 
of information concerning their operations and their 
changes. 

*• This information, however, is extremely imperfect. 
The most acute and penetrating genius, unassisted 
by scientific methods, wholly fails in its attempts to 
trace efiects to their causes : and an acquaintance 
with the minute relations and properties of natural 
objects, and the laws by which they are governed, can 
be obtained by philosophical study only ; by an in- 
quiry into natural science, into that system of ex- 
tensive knowledge which has been accumulated in 
different times, and collected from a variety of sources, 
by multiplied observations, labour, and ingenuity. 



170 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

&lt;&lt; Natural science is founded on minute critical views 
of the general order of events taking place upon our 
globe, corrected, enlarged, or exalted by experiments, 
in which the agents concerned aire placed under new 
circumstances, and their diversified properties separ- 
ately examined. The body of natural science, then, 
consists oi facts ; its governing spirit is analogy, — the 
relation or resemblance of facts by which its different 
parts are connected, arranged, and employed, either 
for popular use, or for new speculative improvements. 

&lt;&lt; The chemical phenomena of nature constitute the 
objects of one of the most extensive branches of the 
science. The parts of all known bodies are capable 
of new arrangements ; and all the changes in their 
constitution, whether rapid or slow, whether the work 
of hours, of days, or of ages, whether grand or mi- 
nute, are equally the subjects of chemistry. The study 
embraces a great number of principles and facts, va- 
rious in their nature, importance, and applications. 
A general view of the order and plan of the course 
will, perhaps, not be considered as an improper intro- 
ductory illustration. This view, from the multitude 
of objects which must be crowded together, will, I 
fear, be very tedious ; but it is necessary, and, if you 
will attend to it, may remove some difficulties, and it 
may prevent disappointment ; for it will explain how 
much of common and familiar philosophical detail 
will be introduced, the general arrangements to be 
adopted, and what new matter and new elucidations 
will be offered. 

" The order of nature is immediately dependent 
upon the continual transmutations and changes of ex- 
ternal objects. The variety of the forms of things^ 
their unceasing modifications, but, for chemistry. 



SIE HUMPHRY DAVY, J 71 

would be unintelligible enigmas. The diversities of 
matter, the causes of its mutations, are perhaps the 
first amongst the subjects of speculation that press 
themselves upon the inquisitive mind ; and they will 
likewise be the first to occupy our consideration. 

" The researches of modem chemistry, the methods 
of the experimental art, have demonstrated that all 
natural bodies consist of diflferent arrangements or 
combinations of a few simple parts or elements, and it 
is on the knowledge of the invariable properties and 
agencies with which these elements are endowed 
that the whole of the demonstrative part of the 
science depends. Amidst their numerous alterations, 
the chemist is generally capable of arresting them, 
and of examining them in their pure forms, and 
in their difierent states of existence: whether as 
solids, as fluids, or as aeriform substances, they are 
almost equally within his power, equally capable of 
being investigated by experimental means. On this 
subject I shall enter only generally, illustrating it 
rather by striking examples than by minute details : 
common events even will aflTord a number of in- 
stances. Moisture, which falls from the atmosphere 
in rain, is again dissolved by it, or enters into the 
composition of animal or vegetable bodies, or mineral ' 
formations ; but when chemically examined, it still 
retains the same constitution, the same permanent 
properties. The coal in our fires is converted by 
combustion into a peculiar species of air, which is 
dissolved by water, carried into the soil, and changed 
in the elaboratory of vegetable life j but the elementary 
matter may .still be traced with precision — the same 
in weight, in quality, in essence. 

" Heat^ the greatest, the most universal, perhaps, 



I7@ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

of natural agents, will next claim our attention. Some 
of the noblest of the works of modern chemical dis- 
covery are connected with this subject; and the same 
truths which led to the greatest extension of our 
mechanical powers ever invented, in the management 
and effects of steam, have likewise elucidated an im- 
mense number of natural phenomena, before perplexed 
and obscure. In this part of the course I shall detail 
the doctrines of Professor Black, and the later dis- 
coveries and facts of Dr. Herschel, Count Rumford, 
and Mr. Leslie, as far as they claim any relation to 
the general subject. On this point our views may 
be materially assisted by experiment; and I shall 
endeavour to offer such sensible illustrations, as may 
be clear and distinct Natural appearances, however, 
and the great cycle of terrestrial changes, will afford 
a copious narrative of facts. It is on heat that the 
fluidity of water, the elasticity of air, and the form of 
the soil, depend. It penetrates every where, and is 
every where efficient. Terrible in its partial de- 
structive and consuming agencies, it is admirable in 
its general beneficial and useful effects. The beauty 
and order of nature are connected with its operations; 
and the progress of vitality, as it were, follows the 
successions of periods and seasons, and the changes 
of temperature in the diurnal and annual motion of 
the earth and the sun. 

** LigJUj much less powerful as a cause of chemical 
change, will occupy much less of our time. The 
experiments of the separation of its rays, and their 
different chemical effects in the pure forms, will afford 
some curious matter for discussion. The researches 
of Dr. Herschel have sufficiently shown the distinct- 
ness of light and heat. But as heat usually coexists. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, I'JS 

with light, it is not easy to determine clearly the 
operation of this last agent. It occasions, however, 
or at least influences, a great number of natural 
changes. Crystallisations, the alterations of colour 
of bodies, the health, and, ultimately, even the life, of 
vegetables, depend upon its agency ; and, as M. La- 
voisier has well observed, it is on the surface of the 
earth only, where the forms of matter are exposed to 
light, that organisation, spontaneous motion, and 
sensation exist 

*« Ekctricity will offer a more extensive field of in- 
formation and discussion. That power, the demon- 
stration of which, as identical with lightning and the 
cause of thunder, was one of the greatest philoso- 
phical triumphs of the last century, there is every 
reason to believe, is not limited in its operation to the 
atmosphere, but is constantly producing the most 
important efK^cts in the other great parts of our 
system. The galvanic phenomena, only lately iden- 
tified as dependent upon the same principle, have 
afforded to us new and excellent instruments, and 
most powerful means of investigation, and have 
connected in a remarkable manner electricity and 
chemistry. The discoveries of Franklin, Volta, 
Galvani, and Walsh, and other philosophers in our 
own country, who have eminently enlightened the 
subject, will be successively examined. 

'&lt; In this department of the inquiry I shall be able 
to offer some novel views, and various original ex- 
periments. It would be improper for me to avoid 
mentioning my own labours ; but I feel full confidence 
that I do not risk the imputation of vanity. The 
observations that I have been able to make will at 
least show the very intimate relation that exists 



174 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

between the electrical energies of bodies and their 
powers of chemical combination ; and the processes 
will exhibit a variety of new methods of decom- 
position and analysis, which, I trust, will not be found 
wholly devoid of theoretical application and practical 
advantages* 

" The apparatus of Volta, analogous to the organ of 
the torpedo, and the gymnotus electricus, produces, 
silently and slowly, the most astonishing changes. 
The appearances of fire and light, associated with all 
the early discoveries in electricity, and which ren- 
dered the facts popular, brilliant, and impressive, 
are far from being connected with its most important 
agencies. It is not by flashes, by explosions, and 
sparks, but by quiet, gradual, and almost unperceived 
operations, that it produces its greatest effects ; and, 
generally diffused, like heat, it, perhaps, is equaUy 
active, equally important, in the economy of nature. 
After having closed the consideration of the active 
and etherial powers, as they may justly be called, 
which are continually operating upon gross and pon- 
derable matter, the next subjects for our inquiry 
will be the common arrangements of bodies in the 
three great divisions of the globe — the atmosphere, 
the ocean, and the solid surface of the earth. 

** Air, supposed in all the ancient systems of philo- 
sophy to be an uniform and immutable element, is 
now known to contain not merely different chemical 
compounds, but likewise different mechanical mix- 
tures of various elementary substances. Its consti- 
tution will be experimentally demonstrated ; both the 
early and the later researches will be examined ; and 
it will be found, for the glory of our science, and our 
own country, that its composition was first accurately 
shown by a British philosopher still living ; and that, 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 175 

after tWenty-five years of error and doubt, his estima-i 
tions have been universally admitted and adopted^ 
both abroad and at home. The subject of the nature, 
constitution, and agencies of the atmosphere will fur- 
nish ample sources both of experimental and theore- 
tical elucidation. The action of one of the constituent 
parts of air upon inflammable bodies is the cause of 
the beautiful and important phenomena of combus- 
tion : it is the medium by which the solar light and 
heat are transmitted to us, and their powerful agencies 
are dependent upon a peculiar state of its constituent 
parts* Unequally heated by the action of the sun 
upon the surface of the earth, different strata of air 
are constantly changing their places, and currents are 
established, which, modified by the rotation of th^ 
globe, produce all the varying phenomena of the 
winds. 

" The atmosphere, though the receptacle of all the 
elastic fluids formed or developed on the surface of 
the earth, is nevertheless uniform with regard to the 
proportions of its principal elements ; and those parts 
of it which are absorbed by bodies, which are taken 
into the lungs of animals as an essential nourishment, 
are again supplied by a series of beautiful operations^ 
In consequence of changes in the temperatures of 
different portions of air, a part of the water that they 
contain is often deposited in a state of minute divi- 
sion ; and hence arise all the beautiful and varying 
appearances of clouds ; hence snow and hail, and 
hence rain and dews, that supply the earth with vivi- 
fying moisture. All the particles of the atmosphere 
are active in forming combinations with water, and 
with substances contained in soils ; and by means of 
its extensive and diversified operations the fertility of 



176 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

the earth is preserved, and she is rendered a fniitfiil 
mother of living beings. 

&lt;&lt; The arrangements of the waters of the globe will 
follow in proper order, and their nature and changes 
will afford a variety of cases of chemical action. 

** In the greatextent of the ocean an important series 
of efifects are constantly taking place* Though a 
number of substances are carried into it from the 
land, yet by chemical operations it is preserved in an 
uniform state, and its saline and aqueous parts duly 
mixed together. Warmed by the solar heat, it dif- 
fuses its pure moisture through the atmosphere ^ agi- 
tated by the winds and tides, its waves are combined 
with air, which, dissolved at the surface, passes even 
to the remotest depths, and becomes a principle of 
vitaUty to the beings inhabiting them. 

" Our rivers and streams, which owe their remote 
origin to moisture carried by evaporation from the sea, 
undergo analogous changes ; but, being in a constant 
state of motion, they are modified to a greater extent 
Their composition is affected by the substances which 
constitute their beds ; and their materials, after un- 
dergoing a variety of alterations, are either returned 
to the bosom of their parent ocean, or made subser- 
vient to the purposes of life in new forms. 

" The solid surface of the earth will next be con- 
sidered. The theatre of all the grand changes oc- 
curring in nature, it is in itself comparatively fixed, 
and comparatively immutable, and the substances com- 
posing it are, above all others, endowed with invari- 
able qualities. This part of the course will include 
the pure and elementary geology, freed from all cos- 
mogenical inquiries, from all hypothetical generalisar 
tions» whether the dreams of ancient times, or the 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 177 

ingenious and beautiful visions of modem pfailoso* 
phers^ On this subject I shall be able to introduce a 
number of original observations made upon the con- 
stitution of the strata of the earth, which will, per- 
haps, have a peculiar interest, as belonging principally 
to these islands ; and they will be illustrated botii by 
specimens of rocks, and by large coloured sketches. 

" The soil, the decomposed exterior crust of the 
earth, consists of finely divided matter, daily in a 
state of change from the operation of common natu- 
ral agents ; and when its parts are consolidated by the 
recent agency of water, it is considered as alluvial, or 
the latest class of rock formations. 

" The strata disposed in layers parallel to the hori* 
zon usually abound in the remains of shells, marine 
animals, and plants, of which very few classes are 
now existing: and these are the epizootic, or, as 
they are usually denominated, the secondary strata. 
Their origin is connected with an obscure period of 
time, when the present land was covered by the 
water, and they remain as monuments of a grand 
and awful catastrophe that has happened to our 
globe. 

&lt;&lt; The class of rocks composing the summits of the 
highest of our mountains, and extending to the re- 
motest depths accessible to human observation, are 
crystallised masses, consisting of a few elementary 
materials, apparently rudely arranged, and yet bear- 
ing in their most imperfect parts characters by which 
they may be distinguished, and types marking their 
species. Free from any fragments, — containing no 
organic remains, they appear, at first view, as if exempt 
from the common law of decay, and from the opera- 
tion of time i yet their external and supei*ficial parts, 

VOL. I. N 



178 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

where fully exposed, undergo chemical alterations ; 
and, by the general effect of the inequalities of the 
foundations of the surface, a number of important 
changes are constantly produced. Earth is supplied 
from the mountains to the plains and valleys ; by 
means of mountains a greater inequality of tempera- 
ture is produced ; water is supplied to the low coun- 
tries, and the course of the winds modified. 

•* In all this system, whether in its state of rest or 
of motion, the great end is the conservation of living 
nature. The laws of inorganic matter seem con- 
stantly active and eflScient for no other purpose, and, 
amidst all the changes of the globe, animation rises 
unsubdued and supreme ! 

" The last branch of these lectures will concern 
chemical operations, as far as they are connected 
with the powers of living systems. On this subject, 
as yet, little has been effected ; and the materialsi 
though important, are few and slender. The skirt 
only of the veil which conceals these mysterious and 
sublime processes has been lifted up^ and the grand 
view is as yet unknown. 

" Of vegetable chemistry, which has lately occupied 
a particular course of lectures, I shall have little to 
say ; I shall confine myself merely to general views of 
its relations to the great chemical economy of nature. 

" The functions of animals will offer more extended 
objects of research. Digestion, nutrition, and, above 
all, respiration, will admit of various elucidations from 
the laws of chemistry ; and, in whatever is known, a 
beautiful order, and an excellent adaptation of the 
means to the end will be found. 

" Such is the outline which I shall endeavour to fill 
up. After having given so extensive a detail of the 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 179 

objects to which the course will relate, it will be 
scarcely necessary for me to enter into any minute 
display of the importance or advantages of the study. 
You must have already felt and already weighed 
them ; and it is far from my wish to attempt to seduce 
you to become partakers in a repast, which you may 
find rather coarse and homely fare, than a sumptuous 
and elegant entertainment Some things, as I have 
said, will be new ; but many will be old, or belong to 
the order of philosophical common-places. A few 
experiments will be upon a considerable scale, and 
connected with brilliant results ; but a far greater 
number must inevitably be minute, will require atten- 
tion to be seen and understood, and will be valuable 
only in consequence of their applications. The sub- 
ject, likewise, I fear, will admit of few amusing de- 
tails -^ nothing to awaken pleasantry — nothing to 
excite wit There are no anecdotes of nature : these, 
indeed, belonged to the systems of the Greeks, and 
the nations of antiquity ; but the philosophy of 
Bacon and Newton has fortunately excluded them 
from our schools. The history of things, and their 
faithful representations, will be the only sources of 
interest ; and the love of nature and of truth are 
almost the only feelings that can be gratified by the 
pursuits of this part of experimental knowledge. 

** In some respects, indeed, the chemistry of nature 
is superior to any other departments of the science. It 
is not much connected with laborious operations in 
crucibles ; with the effects of mixture, the minute 
forms and combinations of artificial processes in 
phials, retorts, or alembics ; but it is principally 
founded upon the observation of extensive and ob- 
vious changes. And its machinery is composed of 

N 2 



180 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

the great forms and elements of the external world , 
which are at once objects of vulgar admiration, of 
imitation in art, and of poetical description. Sun- 
shine, winds, vapours, clouds, rivers, and cataracts 
are its prime agents ; and the scenes of their opera- 
tions, the diversified face of nature, the sky, the 
ocean, mountains, plains, and valleys. 

" In another point of view, it may perhaps be said to 
offer a peculiar source of interest to active and ener- 
getic minds. It is one of the few branches of expe- 
rimental philosophy capable, as our methods now 
apply, of very exalted improvements ; and the new 
instruments in this science are capable of most exten- 
sive applications, and, in the hands of ingenious men, 
will probably lead to discoveries as important, or even 
more important, than those made by the early philo- 
sophers of modern times by the invention of the 
microscope and telescope, when new worlds of minute 
forms were developed by means of them upon the 
earth, and new grand worlds, and solar systems, dis- 
covered in the heavens. The methods of investiga- 
tion have been ascertained, but, as yet, little used. We 
are, as it were, cultivators in a new country ; the 
woods, as yet, have only been cleared from the coast, 
but we have not penetrated into the interior fertile sa- 
vannahs, nor to the grand mountain districts. 

" In general, the same arguments will apply to the 
study of this branch of science, and the various com- 
prehensive departments of the great system of natu- 
ral knowledge ; and in this respect I can do little 
more than give a repetition of arguments, which I 
have already ventured to urge in favour of the popu- 
lar and general study amongst the refined classes of 
society. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 181 

"The superiority of modern over ancient times 
seems to be in a great measure connected with the 
state of our physical knowledge, and the chemical 
and mechanical inventions and arts dependent upon 
its principles ; for in many other respects the nations 
of antiquity were, perhaps, our superiors rather than 
our equals. Greece and Rome had their heroes and 
conquerors, who extended their power over the best 
part of the globe ; their poets and orators, who pro- 
duced the most harmonious combinations of language ; 
their artists, who formed the most excellent repre- 
sentations of strength, of grace, and of beauty ; but 
the mass of the people were plunged in ignorance 
and barbarism. The operations connected with phy- 
sical science were unknown. Natural knowledge was 
neglected ; and the men who called themselves philo- 
sophers, inattentive to experiment, chiefly pursued 
vain speculations, and, in attempting to predict con- 
cerning all things, discovered nothing : in following a 
shadow, they neglected the substance. The highest 
degree of distinction was soon attained. Hope was 
anticipated by enjoyment. No new object of inquiry 
arose out of intellectual pursuits. Literature and the 
fine arts arrived at a degree of perfection beyond 
which even ambition had nothing to desire ; and when 
the turbulence of war had ceased, when the restless- 
ness of conquest had passed away, they became only 
as roses, strewing the path that led to luxury and 
ruin. 

" In these latter times, on the contrary, the domi- 
nion gained over nature by the processes and arts of 
experiment has contributed to the preservation of the 
mind in a continual state of activity. The exertions 
of unfettered genius have been constantly producing 

N 3 



182 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

new fields for investigation. Literature has been an 
instrument of science ; science has given new ideas 
and new combinations to literature ; and even the 
objects of the imitative arts have been extended in 
consequence of experimental research. The mind 
has been at once strengthened and refined, and the 
equilibrium between reason and feeling preserved. 
Men of science, instead of worshipping idols existing 
in their own imaginations, have examined with reve* 
rence and awe the substantial majesty of nature. 
Discovery has not visited them and disappeared 
again, like the flashes of lightning amidst the dark- 
ness of night ; but it has slowly and quietly advanced, 
as the mild lustre of the morning promising a glo- 
rious day/* 

I shall give one Lecture more, almost entire, in- 
troductory to the course on Geology, which he deli^ 
vered in 1811, and which was founded on an earUer 
one of 1805 j when, as he himself says, the science 
of geology was in its feeble infancy ; when no one 
had preceded him in this country in lecturing on the 
subject; not a single elementary book had been 
written on it ; and when he had to collect his ma- 
terials from various remote sources, and, from dis- 
jointed members, construct a body of geological 
knowledge : — 

« INTRODUCTORY GEOLOGICAL LECTURE. 

" So different are the exertions of the faculties of 
the mind, and so infinitely various the combinations 
of our ideas, that the same objects may be examined 
with the most opposite views, and considered under 
many diversified and beautiful relations. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 183 

" It is on this fact of our nature, so familiar tp 
every understanding, that the great extent and pro- 
gression of science and philosophy depend* Hence 
their division into various branches, and hence the 
distinctness and accuracy of the different species 
of knowledge. 

&lt;' The planet that we inhabit may be considered, 
in its connection with the general system of the uni- 
verse, as acted upon by gravitation, and revolving 
round the sun. It may be considered as the abode 
of organisation and life, covered with vegetables, 
and peopled with animals ; or it may be studied as 
composed of different inorganic parts, variously ar- 
ranged, and subservient to different uses. 

♦* It is under the last point of view that it is the 
subject of Geology. This word is derived from the 
Greek language : it signifies science qfthe earth; but 
its acceptation is limited, and it is applied only to 
the branch of knowledge relating to the nature^ 
position, and changes of the bodies that compose the 
known parts of the surface of the globe. 

♦* The outlines of the science are plain and obvious, 
and they may be illustrated even by common ob- 
servation from a superficial view of nature. I shall 
attempt a delineation of them, which I hope will be 
f&lt;xind an appropriate introduction to the study of 
the science, and I shall point out the order in which 
they will be considered in these lectures. 

" The first impressions received from the exterior 
of the globe are those of diversity, variety, and 
beauty. Hills, vallies, and plains, appear covered 
with di&amp;rent soils, and affording different vegetables. 
Mountain chains are seen presenting irregular sum- 
mits, bare or capped with snow, or emitting volcanic 

• N 4 



184 MEMOIRS OP THE LIFE OF 

fires ; and their foundations form the beds of rivers, 
or the shores of lakes, seas, or the ocean. 

** In different mountains and rocks, there are two 
remarkable distinctions of arrangement. Some are 
irregularly heaped together in large masses, or layers, 
which are divided almost perpendicularly to the sur- 
face. Others are arranged in bands, or strata, pa- 
rallel, or very slightly inclined to the horizon. 

" The first consist, for the most part, of crystalline 
. stony matter ; they contain few fragments, and ex- 
hibit few vestiges of a former order of things : these 
are called primary rocks. 

&lt;^ The second usually contain abundance of che- 
mical deposits, water-worn stones, sand, and even 
clay, and they often abound in vegetable remains, 
and the exuviae of marine animals : these are called 
the secondary rocks. Both these great orders con- 
tain dykes, or veins, which are more or less perpendi- 
cular ; and which have been fissures, or chasms, filled 
with different substances, embracing a variety of me- 
tallic ores. 

" The primary and secondary rocks ; their tran- 
sitions into, or relations to each other ; and the differ- 
ent substances they contain, are the first and most 
important objects of study in geological science, and 
they will be the first to occupy our attention in this 
course of lectures. 

" The variety, the shades of difference, seem almost 
infinite ; yet their relations are capable of becoming 
the objects of distinct study. The rocks of different 
districts, where there is a considerable extent of sur- 
£ice, are generally found of the same species ; similar 
varieties have similar associations in climates the 
most distant, and the chasms or veins that they in- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. ISiJ 

fold usually contain the same metals, and the same 
crystallised bodies. 

&lt;&lt; The arrangements of rocks and mountains in na- 
ture, and of the minerals they contain, are admirably 
adapted to the economy of things ; and these arrange- 
ments will be pointed out and discussed. The me- 
tallic ores, so useful in the arts of life, which would 
be noxious if distributed over the surface of the 
globe, are concealed within its bosom, where they 
serve to awaken and employ human industry and 
ingenuity. The irregularities of the surface, so cal- 
culated to delight the eye by their sublimity or their 
beauty, are absolutely essential to the order of the 
system. They diversify the temperature of the earth ; 
the cooling agency of the high lands is a cause of 
rain and vivifying dews ; the water raised in vapour 
from the ocean is condensed on their summits, and 
flows in springs, and streams, and rivers, to produce 
vegetation, and multiply life in valleys and plains. 

" After considering tiie existing order of things in 
the forms which, at the moment, appear permanent, 
the next step in the inquiry will be, the laws of their 
alterations. On this subject the human powers are 
necessarily limited ; we have as yet penetrated to a 
small depth only below the surface ; and there may 
be an interior mechanism in the centre, of which we 
have no knowledge. The effects of heat, light, air, 
and water, upon the surface, are almost the only 
circumstances which we are capable of accurately 
studying ; and even with respect to these our sphere 
of observation is very small. The works of agds 
cannot be judged of, except very imperfectly, by 
their effects, in hours or days ; the laws of Infinite 



186 MEMOIRS OF THB LIFE OF 

Wisdom cannot be fully estimated by finite intel- 
ligence ; yet there is a glory in the effort, and delight 
and instruction in the result 

" The primary and secondary rocks, which form 
the known solid parts of the globe, undergo at their 
surfaces a continued series of changes ; and the 
causes of their decomposition are the alterations of 
temperature to which they are exposed, assisted by 
the chemical and mechanical agency of water, and 
the attraction of their constituent parts for principles 
contained in the atmosphere. Firm and immutable 
at their bases, the parts of our mountains, wherever 
they are exposed to air and moisture, lose their du- 
rability and their stony texture, in consequence of 
chemical and electrical agencies, and become sulv 
servient to the production and renovation of soils. 
From the decomposition of a variety of rocks, and 
from the mixture of their elements by the agency of 
water, of streams and rivers, varieties of earths result, 
fitted for all the different modifications of vegetable 
life. In plains, in valleys, and on the low hills and 
mountains, they support plants and trees, subservient 
to the nourishment and shelter of the superior ani- 
mals, and to the uses of man. On heights, where the 
larger plants are incapable of growing, in consequence 
of the intensity of the cold, or the force of the blast, 
grasses are still found, and vegetable life extends its 
empire, by means of mosses and lichens, to the limits 
of perpetual snow. 

" When the effects for which decomposition seems 
principally to operate have been attained, the causes 
lose their energy, and the surface is in a great mea* 
sure defended by vegetation, and by the vegetable 



SIB HUMPHRY DAVT. 187 

earth, from any new action of the elements, and novel 
matter even is accumulated upon it from water and 
air, which at first were the principles of its decay. 

** By the degradation of surfaces of rocks, fertile 
slopes are formed, where before there were only bar- 
ren precipices. Lakes are filled up, the lower parts 
of the beds of rivers are diminished, and a finely di- 
vided earth is transported, by the mechanical agency 
of water, from bleak or inaccessible mountains, to sup- 
ply the waste of soil in cultivated valleys and plains. 

'&lt; Amidst the changes and circulation of matter, a 
certain quantity of the solid materials of the land is 
carried into the sea ; but in this circumstance^ when 
fairly considered, there is no principle of general 
destruction, and there are a number of counterba- 
lancing agencies. Low islands are forming, or con&lt;^ 
standy increasing, at the mouths of great rivers, from 
the opposing agencies of the tide and the stream ; 
coral rocks are continually forming in the great extent 
of the ocean, and they are already the bases of many 
fertile islands in the Pacific ; and subterraneous and 
submarine fires are active in extending land : so that 
the principle of change seems essential in all terres- 
trial nature j but, by an equilibrium of powers, by the 
coincidence of elSects, the system continues the same ; 
and the order by which the globe is preserved, fitted 
for the purposes of life, appears as fixed and unalter- 
able as that which insures the reproduction and con- 
tinuance of the tribes of living beings, its inhabitants. 

«* We are carried by anticipation from the present to 
the future, and the imagination is equally active with 
respect to the past. In considering the phenomena 
of geology, it is impossible to avoid conjectures con- 
cerning the former alterations of the globe. The 



188 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

productions of the sea are found embedded in high 
mountains ; the whole of the surface appeals to us in 
the intelligible language of the Roman poet, which 
may be thus translated : — 

* Remains that to the waters owe their hirth 
Occur in rocks beneath the solid earth ; 
Where our rich fields their varied face display^ 
Once in proud triumph flow*d the azure sea ; 
And in the change of things^ and lapse of time. 
The conquering waves have form'd another clime ; 
And where another land its verdure spread 
Is now the moving ocean's tranquil bed.' 

" But on what great causes have these wonderful 
changes depended, by what laws, or according to what 
principles, have they been produced ? This inquiry 
is a most interesting, I may say a most sublime, part 
of geology. It generally occupies the first place in 
systematic works : I shall treat of it in the last place 
in these lectures, because it will always be a hypo- 
thetical investigation. It cannot be in any way made 
a series of facts — its productions must be probable 
analogies. 

" The most striking and brilliant view of the subject 
is that which was developed in its first form by the 
genius of Hooke, and which has ripened into what is 
usually called the Plutonic theory. In this theory all 
the phenomena of geology are supposed the result of 
an uniform system, in which there has been no de- 
rangement, but one constant order. The land, it is 
said, is continually degrading and decomposing by 
the agency of water, and, in the course of cycles of 
ages, must be entirely destroyed. But there is an an- 
tagonist power of renovation — JirCy which, acting be- 
neath the bottom of the sea, is continually raising 
land, from which continents and islands result. Our 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 189 

rocks are crystalised or consolidated, and must, say 
the advocates for this opinion, have been once fluid 
or soft ; and fire is the only agent adequate to such 
an effect, which, acting under the pressure of the 
ocean, must produce results very different from those 
which it occasions in the free atmosphere. 

** According to the Plutonic notion, all our rocks 
have been formerly the materials of another land, and 
the organic remains they contain are considered as so 
many proofs of this circumstance. In this system, 
decay and renovation are conceived to be perfectly 
balanced : water degrades ; fire reproduces ; and they 
are imagined to be opposed to each other, like the 
evil and good principles of the Persian mythology, 
Arhimanes and Ormuz, the destroying and creative 
genii. 

" From what I read a few minutes ago, it is evident 
that, in referring to the actual changes now taking 
place upon the globe, we must admit the operation 
of causes similar to those adopted in the Plutonic hy- 
pothesis ; but it is a matter of doubt and of discussion 
whether they must be admitted as universal. 

** One great difficulty opposed to the igneous theory, 
was the source of heat. But this may be accounted 
for by supposing the interior of the globe composed 
of the metals of the earths, which the agency of air 
and water might cause to burn into rocks ; and even 
the reproduction of these metals may be conceived to 
depend upon electrical polarities in the earth ; and in 
this manner an harmonious order may be assumed : 
but though the idea is one which I have myself ven- 
tured to throw out, I cannot avoid saying that it rests 
on pure speculation. It does not command our assent. 



190 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

nor has it for me that high degree of probability which 
necessarily induces conviction. 

** The view which is particularly opposed to the 
Plutonic is the Neptunian, and it is sanctioned by the 
authority of Werner, Kirwan, and De Luc« In this 
hypothesis it is conceived that all rocks are depo- 
sitions or crystallisations from a solution in an 
aqueous menstruum, and that the secondary rocks 
were the latest depositions, being formed after the 
ocean was peopled with living beings. No order is 
conceived corresponding to the existing order of 
things; the whole system is founded upon the 
solvent' powers of water. — It is a speculation very 
remarkable for its simplicity. 

&lt;* Besides the Plutonic hypothesis, which considers 
rocks as the result of an existing order, and the Nep- 
tunian, which regards them as products of a slow 
process of creation and deposition from a chaotic 
fluid, there are other views, in which the present state 
of things is supposed to have resulted from a great 
and extraordinary series of events^ by which the 
ocean was carried over the land, and the secondary 
rocks deposited upon the primary ones. Leibnitz 
and Whiston refer this great revolution to the agency 
of a comet, by which the tides were raised above the 
mountains, and carried round the earth, and by which 
the water was heated so as to gain new solvent powers : 
and they connect this event with the sacred and pro- 
fane history of early times. 

^* In examining these different views, I shall endea- 
vour to discuss the evidences on which they rest, and 
to estimate the degree of probability of the difierent 
arguments brought forward to support them. On 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 19 1 

such a subject doubt is not merely excusable, it is, 
in fact, salutary. It is only by reasoning upon the 
operations of chemistry that we can hope to gain any 
just theory of the formation of rocks j and chemistry 
is every day gaining new instruments, and exhibiting 
to us new substances and powers ; and the perfection 
of this science cannot fail to enlarge our views of the 
grand operations of nature. 

&lt;^ The most active imagination must rest somewhere: 
there is some point in which even a circle must be 
begun ; and all the evidences deduced from the face 
of nature would incline one to believe, that the be- 
ginning of the existing order of things cannot be 
placed further back than the period attributed to it 
in the sacred writings ; and it is this order only which 
it is in our power accurately to study. 

In this order the two grand circumstances are, 
1st, That the secondary rocks have been materially 
altered by causes acting from above. Strata have been 
swept away, valleys opened, cliffs laid bare, and yet 
the parallelism of the parts preserved. 

** 2d, That the primary rocks have been deranged 
by causes acting from below ; they are irregular, their 
layers disturbed and diversified, and""' there is no dis- 
tinct parallelism. 

** It seems absolutely necessary to introduce more 
than one system of causes for the changes that have 
taken place. Fire renders bodies fluid, but it in- 
creases the solvent powers of water to a wonderful 
extent ; and all substances possessed of chemical ac- 
tion on each other have their energies exalted by 
heat. It has been too much the fashion in philosophy 
to refer operations and effects to single agencies ; but 



c« 



igS MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

there are, in fact, in nature two grand species of re- 
lationships between phenomena: in one an infinite 
variety of effects is produced by a single cause ; in 
the other a great variety of causes is subservient to 
one effect. Both are equally important, and equally 
worthy of being studied ; though the last . has been 
least attended to, as the inquiry is more laborious, 
and the results less attainable. Instances of it may, 
however, every where be found parallel to those in 
geology. A variety of rays co-operate to produce the 
simple sensation of pure light; the numerous gra- 
vitating agencies of the planets and their satellites 
upon each other, and upon the sun, produce the 
simple effect of regular, harmonious, and invariable 
revolutions ; the functions of ani^lal bodies are sup- 
ported by various nourishment, and by various sets 
of organs ; and almost all the principles of matter, in 
their various combinations, are made essential to the 
existence and the pleasures of one being. 

^* In these things there is the nicest adaptation, an 
order calculated to awaken the strongest admiration. 
We ought never to judge of nature by the gene- 
ralisations which exist in our own fancy. We are 
compelled to seek for simplicity on account of the 
weakness of our own powers. We are incapable of 
giving perfection and utility to complicated machines ; 
and we are generally most impressed by that which 
approaches nearest to, and which most resembles, the 
best of our own productions. But man is merely the 
imitator, the servant, and interpreter, of nature : he 
labours in vain when he attempts to reason concern- 
ing the ultimate tendency of her works from that of 
his own. He is the slave of time : her operations are 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 193 

in eternity, and high faculties are required to catch 
even a glimpse of the wise and wonderful laws by 
which they are governed. 

" With the critical examination of the speculations 
and hypotheses on geology I shall conclude the 
course. I shall spare no labour ; I shall employ all 
my feeble powers to make the subjects of it intelli- 
gible and useful ; but lectures, even in their best and 
most popular form, even when they most awaken in- 
terest and arrest the attention, are wholly inadequate 
to fix in the mind the principles and basis of science. 
They may sometimes, indeed, in this case excite the 
uninformed to inquiry, and communicate general 
views ; but they can be subservient to useful and ex- 
tensive knowledge only when assisted by previous or 
collateral study of the subject to which they relate. 
It is for this reason that I urge on those of my audi- 
ence to whom the science of geology is yet new, and 
who may really wish to become acquainted with it as 
students, the necessity of acquiring particular inform- 
ation by the examination of specimens, and by a 
course of reading. 

" It is not necessary in the study of mineral bodies, 
in a geological point of view, to enter at once upon 
the consideration of the whole extent of the fossil 
productions of the earth. The principal rocks, which 
form the great foundations of the surface, are com- 
paratively few in number, and may be very easily 
procured, and at an inconsiderable expense. The 
large sums of money which are often laid out in 
cabinets are usually devoted to the collection of rare 
and uncommon minerals; but these substances, though 
greatly interesting to the mineralogist and chemist, 

VOL. I. o 



194 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

are comparatively of little importance to the geologist^ 
whose object is to study the usual productions and 
great facts of nature, rather than her accidental com- 
binations and curious irregularities. 

" The knowledge of the external properties of the 
common rocks, considered as fragments, is a neces- 
sary introduction to the study of the earth. But it 
must be always remembered, that mineralogy ought 
merely to be a preparation for geology, and con*, 
sidered merely as affording the characters by which its 
mysteries are deciphered ; and that it is in the great 
arrangements of nature, and not in the details of the 
museum, that the facts and the foundations of the 
science must be sought for and examined. 

** The study of the natural arrangements of rocks 
may, at first view, appear a very difiicult and extensive 
labour, and to some persons an impracticable one ; 
but to gain a general acquaintance with the subject 
it is not necessary to examine a great variety of dis- 
tricts, or a great extent of country. Our own island 
contains all the impoilant species of strata, and that 
often in a very small compass, and in places which 
are easily accessible, and in which the arrangement 
is distinct In Cornwall alone almost all the same 
geological formations as those found in the Alps, in 
Saxony, and in Siberia occur, and in the northern 
counties and western coast of Scotland the most 
interesting varieties of secondary and primary rocks 
may be found in a space of a few square miles 
in extent, and even at a smaller distance within 
a hundred miles of the metropolis. In Leices- 
tershire there is a similar arrangement; and in a 
journey of a single day the peaks of granite of Mount 
Sorrel, the secondary racks of Chawood Forest, and 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 195 

the coal strata and their formations, may all be easily 
attained* 

'^ In studying the natural appearances of rocks, 
much various information and many valuable hints may 
be derived from the examination of the descriptive 
writings of geological travellers ; and there are many 
excellent works of this kind, developing correct views, 
and combining amusement with instruction* As a 
book most relating to the geology of our own country, 
I can with pleasure recommend the mineralogy of 
the Scottish islands by Professor Jameson. His de- 
scriptions are executed with correctness and address* 
I am able to bear testimony to the accuracy of many of 
his statements ; and, whenever he has studied minutely 
or with labour, he is always ingenious and profound. 
Amongst the works which relate to foreign countries, 
it is unnecessary to dwell upon those of Humboldt ; 
they have been recently brought forward in our 
most popular journals, and their merits ably displayed. 
The publications of Dolomieu, likewise, occupy n dis- 
tinguished rank. This celebrated man was possessed 
of the true love of geology, and was guided in his 
researches by the most philosophical spirit. His 
virritings, particularly those on the Lipari Islands, are 
distinguished not merely by accuracy of description, 
but likewise by a peculiar justness of thought and 
happiness of deduction. He is not a rapid traveller, 
"vrho has merely sketched the outlines of objects ; but 
he has studied them deeply, and examined their 
minute parts, their bearings and relations ; and his 
pictures are equally valuable for their accuracy and 
their strength. 

•* Of a kindred character are the descriptions of 
M. de Saussure. Educated amidst the magnificent 

o 2 



196 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

scenery of the Alps, this illustrious person felt iit 
his earliest days the warmest admiration of the study, 
and his whole life was more or less devoted to it. Pos- 
sessing from nature a penetrating genius, he assisted its 
efforts by all the refinements and resources of science. 
In his researches he spared no labour, and yielded 
nothing to the common sentiment of self-love. A 
constant inhabitant of the mountains, he has exceeded 
all other writers in his descriptions of them. His 
delineations are equally vivid and correct, and, as far 
as mere language is capable, they awaken pictures in 
the mind. De Saussure has presented the rare instance 
of a powerful imagination associated with the coolest 
judgment ; of the brilliancy of ideas and feelings of 
the poet, connected with the minute research and 
deep sagacity of the philosopher. 

** In speculative geology, the essays of Mr. Kirwan 
offer ah extended view of the Neptunian hypothesis ; 
and this excellent and learned philosopher has em- 
ployed all his talent to support what he conceives 
an orthodox system of the earth, and to overturn 
the Plutonic heresy. M. de Luc has lately published 
a work of a kindred character, which demonstrates 
equally the vigour of his mind and the powers of his 
body. The ardour of this veteran in science for the 
pursuit of knowledge seems to increase with his age. 
I cannot always agree with him in opinion ; but I 
admire the spirit with which he pursues his subject, 
and the unsubdued energies of his imagination. 

" The best view of the Plutonic theory in existence 
is owing to Professor Playfair, who has given to the 
ideas of Dr. Hutton, the ingenious founder of the 
doctrine, a new, a more philosophical, and a beautiftil 
form. Dr. Hutton's system, as delivered in his ori- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 197 

ginal work, though marked by grandeur of view, and 
felicity of induction, and copiousness of fact, is per- 
plexed and obscure in detail : the arrangement is un- 
happy, and but little calculated to facilitate the know- 
ledge of the subject. In Mr. Playfair's hands, which 
have sometimes altered, and sometimes created, the 
theory, it loses its character of a confused effort of gi- 
gantic but ill-directed power, and becomes impressive 
from its simplicity, and seductive from itselegance; and 
is rich in instances of noble philosophical eloquence. 
"From what has been said of the nature and methods 
of the study of geology, it is evident that the accurate 
pursuit of it must occupy a certain portion of time, and 
demand some labour and attention ; and a fair ques- 
tion may be asked. What are its practical uses ? What 
advantages are likely to arise from it ? What interests 
will it promote ? On this point I might undoubtedly 
shelter myself under the proposition, that " all know- 
ledge is highly beneficial ; " that whatever can awaken 
intellectual pleasure, or convey more exalted views of 
nature, or of the human talents, is truly worthy of our 
cultivation, and fitted for our faculties. But, inde- 
pendent of such considerations, regarded merely as 
a profitable and useful science, I may fairly say that 
geology is exceedingly worthy of being cultivated ; 
and a few details will be sufficient to prove that the in- 
formation to be derived from it is often applicable to 
important purposes, and may, in a number of in- 
stances^ be made subservient to the wants of life. 

" Fixed upon the earth, and dependent for our sup- 
port and existence upon the various objects surround- 
ing us, many of our necessities are supplied, and 
some of our highest comforts produced, by the appli- 
cation of substances found in the mineral kingdom. 

o 3 



198 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFfi OF 

^' The soils from which our vegetable nourishment 
is raised, the stones of which our habitations are 
formed, the fuel we employ for so many purposes, 
and the metals so absolutely essential to civilised man^ 
are all objects of geology ; and as this science treats 
of their nature, arrangement, and association, it is 
evidently the most capable of affording useful dis* 
coveries with regard to their localities, occurrence^ 
and readiest application. I have already mentioned 
that there is an order in the position of rocks, by 
which certain species are almost always found ac- 
companying each other, and occupying the same 
district. In a mountainous country, for instance, if a 
rock of this nature occurred which is serpentinef we 
might be almost certain that this substance, which 
is soap-rockf would be somewhere found in it, and 
that this fossil, which is micaceous schist, would not 
be far distant. But in such a position it would be 
in vain to search for shell, limestone, or coal. Again, 
where soft shell limestone occurs, there is a strong 
presumption that soft black shale or loose sandstone 
will be found in some contiguous spot ; and in such a 
country, there is little doubt that, at some depth, or 
in some direction, fossil coal would be discovered. 

'&lt; These circumstances are fundamental facts of the 
science, and the ready application of them will be 
immediately evident. The person who is digging 
for pit-coal, if he meets beneath the soil serpentine, 
or micaceous or granite-rock, if acquainted with 
the arrangement and nature of strata, will be im- 
mediately instructed to give over his labour, and 
spare useless expense. But should he find sand* 
stone, ---a substance which, to an uninstructed eye, ap* 



SIR HUMPHHY DAVY. 199 

pears of much the same nature as granite, -— it affords 
him some encouragement to proceed in his researches ; 
and a yellow or red ferruginous sandstone, or a iinen 
grained white sandstone, or soft slate, bearing im- 
pressions of vegetable leaves, would offer very strong 
indications of the substance sought for ; for these 
strata are generally immediately incumbent on coal. 
iSimilar reasonings may be applied to metallic veins. 
The metals seldom or never occur in rocks of ser- 
pentine, of sienite, or soft coaly schist, nor in sand- 
stone, nor in basalt ; but they may be looked for 
in soft granite, in bard schist, and in hard shell 
limestone. And if in granite or schist a vein of 
white stone is found running in a direction from east 
to west, there is much probability that in some part 
of its depth it may afford useful metal. And if* 
veins of spar occur in rocks, partly hollow, and partly 
filled with a yellow substance of this kind, which, in 
Cornwall, is called Gossan, it may be almost con- 
cluded that such veins will be productive ; and the 
larger the quantity of Gossan, the better the indi^ 
cation. Some very great losses and failures have 
often taken place in mining from ignorance in the 
directors of the common facts of geology. I shall 
mention a remarkable instance that took place in So- 
mersetshire. Some miners from Cornwall were em- 
ployed in working a rich copper-vein, near Nether 
Stowey. At a certain depth, the vein was crossed by 
a dike of stone. The miners cut in their accustomed 
direction, expecting immediately to reach the vein j 
but their efforts were wholly unsuccessful, and it was 
not till after some weeks, and much e^^penditure of 
money and labour, that the object was attained* 
Tlie reason of their failure was, that the arrange- 

o *h 



200 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

ment of dikes in the primary county of Cornwall, 
and in the secondary county of Somersetshire, is 
very different. In the one, the vein cut through 
almost always appears shifted ; and in the other it 
maintains its perpendicular direction. And the 
mere knowledge of this fact, which is almost general 
for the different districts, would have ensured the 
success of the operation. 

*' A number of instances of the same kind might 
be adduced. And the science is equally applicable 
in a number of other arts and professions. It ought 
to be particularly studied by the engineer who is 
employed in the construction of canals, or docks, 
or fortifications, as certain strata, exceedingly hard, 
often alternate with others that are very soft and 
easily cut through ; and by a knowledge of their 
different positions and relations much unnecessary 
labour and expense may be often avoided. 

** The drainer, in order to make his operations 
successful, ought to be minutely acquainted with the 
arrangement of the rocks in the district from which 
the springs arise, which it is his business to divert ^ 
and he ought to pay particular attention to the nature 
and position of dikes ; for they often intersect soft 
strata, and stop the course of the water, and render 
all his operations useless till they are discovered and 
penetrated. 

" The farmer and the improver of land, even, may 
often derive from geology very useftil instruction with 
regard to the position of limestone, marl, and clays, 
their appearance, and the nearest places whence 
they may be procured. And, lastly, even the ar- 
chitect may often benefit by this science. Of the 
strata which afford stones employed in building, some 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. ^1 

parts are much more liable to decay than others, and 
the external character affords the indication. Many 
rocks, exceedingly beautiful and tempting, to the eye, 
and easily cut through, are often very liable to de- 
composition, — are easily destroyed by common na- 
tural agents, and their relations to permanency can 
only be known by scientific observation. I can 
mention two remarkable instances in which decom- 
posing stones have been unfortunately employed in 
the construction of considerable edifices, which, in 
consequence, are most rapidly falling into decay. 
The one is Chester cathedral, which is constructed 
of ferruginous sandstone; and, by the action of 
water and air, all the exterior ornaments, and nearly 
a half of the surface of this venerable structure are 
destroyed. The other is the library of Trinity Ccd- 
lege, Dublin, which must have been a most beau- 
tiful building, but which, from decomposition, is 
rapidly losing all its elegance of architecture. And the 
circumstance is the more singular, as the principal 
rocks in the vicinity are beautiful and permanent 
granites ; and, by some unfortunate circumstance, the 
materials selected for this edifice must have been 
brought from some distance, and probably at a great 
expense. 

" It will be unnecessary to pursue these statements 
to any greater extent. Sufficient has, I trust, been 
said to prove that the science may be of national as 
well as of individual advantage,—* and, at least, to esta- 
blish its utility. It is far from my wish to endeavour 
to exalt geology to a higher rank than it ought to 
occupy, or to attempt to raise it unfairly above the 
other branches of physical knowledge ; but I should 
be unjust to my subject were I not to state some 



302 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

of the peculiar advantages which it possesses as a 
science of contemplation, and as a series of important 
truths, unfolding some of the most beautiful and im-&gt; 
portant parts of the economy of nature* 

«&lt; Of all material objects that can employ our atten* 
tion, those that are nearest to us ought to excite the 
warmest and most immediate interest ; and, after man 
and animated nature, no subject of physical inquiry 
bears a more distinct relation to us than the place of 
our abode •*— the earth, to which we are necessarily 
attached, and the mechanism of which is intimately 
connected with our powers, our enjoyments, and 
even our existence. The more general study of the 
science, and the constitution of the globe, affords 
some very beautiful and sublime views, which could 
never be gained from the common observation of 
external nature. It explains the importance of the 
variety and irregularities which it exhibits ; and de-* 
monstrates that no parts are useless; and that the 
causes which apparently produce destruction and 
disorder are, in fact, in the general series, connected 
with the renovation and support of the system. If 
the interest of this species of knowledge is consider- 
able, the faciUiy of acquiring it ought, at least, to be 
a motive why it should be pursued. It requires no 
laborious or continued investigation ; no expensive 
or complicated apparatus ; no minute processes upon 
the unknown properties of matter. It demands only 
an inquiring understanding, an acquaintance with 
certain simple elements of knowledge, and a mind 
aUve to the facts which are almost every where pre* 
seated in nature. 

" Geology is yet in an infant state. The great ar. 
rangements only are known ; and whoever furnishes 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 203 

to it new histories of facts becomes an improver of 
the science. The ease with whidi discoveries are 
made ought, undoubtedly, to fix the attention of ac« 
tive spirits. In this department of knowledge there 
are fields of investigation yet unexplored, rich in 
fact and theory, and the subject is one equally fitted 
for an exertion of the memory, the reason, and the 
imagination. 

** The person who is attached to geological inquiries 
can scarcely ever want objects of employment and of 
interest. The ground on which he treads; the 
country which surrounds him ; and even the rocks 
and stones, removed from their natural positions by 
art, are all capable of affording him some degree of 
amusement. And every new mine and quarry that 
is opened ; every new surface of the earth that is 
laid bare; and every new country that is dis- 
covered, opens novel sources of information. In 
travelling he is interested in a pursuit which must 
constantly preserve the mind awake to the scenes 
presented to it And the beauty, the majesty, 
the sublimity of the great forms of nature must 
necessarily be enhanced by the contemplation of 
their order, their mutual dependance, their con- 
nection as a whole. The imagery of a mountain 
countrjr. which is the veiy theatre of the science, is 
in almost all cases highly impressive and delightful ; 
but a new and a nobler species of enjoyment arises 
in the mind when the arrangement in it, its uses 
and its subserviency to life, are considered. To the 
geological inquirer, every mountain chain oiSers de- 
cided proofs of the great alterations that the globe 
has undergone. The most sublime speculations are 
awakened ; the mind is carried into past ages ; new 



@04 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

forms of existence are presented to it» and a bounds 
less inquiry^ the destruction of a former order of 
things, and a system arranged with harmony, fiUed 
with beauty and life, formed from its elements, and 
established on its ruins/' 



In prosecution of the plan proposed, I shall now 
make some extracts from his lectures in illustration 
of his powers as a lecturer, addressing a mixed 
audience of students and philosophers, of men and 
women of rank and fashion. 

The following observations occur in an introduc- 
tory lecture to a course on Electro-Chemical Science, 
which he delivered in the theatre of the Royal Insti- 
tion in 1809, when a fund had been formed by sub- 
scription to construct a great voltaic battery of 2000 
double plates, which was soon afterwards completed. 
An allusion to this leads him to remark on the public 
aid which experimental science requires ^ on the ne- 
cessity of expensive apparatus beyond the attainment 
of most private individuals, both for purposes of 
research and demonstration ; and on the vast advan- 
tages derived from funds thus expended, both in 
relation to the amusement and improvement of the 
mind, and the augmentation of the resources of a 
country. I shall give the whole of his observations 
on this important subject : though delivered on a par- 
ticular occasion and time, they are of very general 
application, and may be always useful in exciting a 
scientific spirit and taste, without which science 
may be patronised, but never can be honoured and 
flourish : — 

« In a former course of lectures, I adverted to the 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 205 

circumstances which led to the proposals for con- 
structing the new apparatus. I cannot avoid re- 
ferring to them a second time ; my inclination, my 
feelings, my duty render this necessary. 

" In a great country like this, it was to be expected 
that a fund could not long be wanting for pursuing 
or perfecting any great scientific object. But the 
promptitude with which the subscription filled was 
so great, as to leave no opportunity to many zealous 
patrons of science for showing their liberality. The 
munificence of a few individuals has afiforded means 
more ample and magnificent that those furnished by 
the government of a rival nation ; and I believe we 
have preceded them in the application of the means. 
In this kind of emulation, our superiority, I trust, 
will never be lost ; and I trust that the activity be- 
longing to our sciences will always flow from the volun- 
tary eiSbrts of individuals, from whom the support 
will be an honour — to whom it will be honourable. 

" In commenting upon the noble spirit by which 
this object has been effected, I trust the general state 
of tbis institution will be a reason why I should press 
still further the use and the necessity of patronising 
and promoting the objects of establishments con- 
nected with the progress of discovery, and the diffu- 
sion of experimental knowledge. This department 
of inquiry demands an apparatus which it is in the 
power of few individuals to provide. It is con- 
nected with considerable expense; and, though it 
may produce great public benefits, cannot, when car- 
ried on in the true spirit of philosophy, be a source 
of private gain. 

*• Without facilities for pursuing his object, . the 
greatest genius in experimental research may. live 



206 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and die useless and unknown. Talents of this kind 
cannot, like talents for literature and the fine arts, call 
forth attention and respect. They can neither give 
popularity to the names of patrons, nor ornament 
their houses. They are limited in their effects, which 
are directed towards the immutable interests of so- 
ciety. They cannot be made subservient to fashion 
or caprice ; they must for ever be attached to truth, 
and belong to nature. If we merely consider in-* 
struction in physical science, this even requires an 
expensive apparatus to be efficient; for without 
proper ocular demonstrations, all lectures must be 
unavailing, — things rather than words should be 
made the objects of study. A certain knowledge of 
the beings and substances surrounding us must be 
felt as a want by every cultivated mind. It is a want 
which no activity of thought, no books, no course of 
reading or conversation, can supply. That a spirit 
for promoting experimental science is not wanting 
in the country, is proved by the statement which I 
have just made, by the foundation in which I have 
the honour of addressing you, and by the number of 
institutions rising in diiSerent parts of the metropolis 
and in the provinces. But it is clear that this laudable 
spirit may produce little effect from want of a just 
direction. To divide and to separate the sources of 
scientific interest, is to destroy all their just effects 
To attempt, with insufficient means, to support fdiiicv 
Sophy, is merely to humiliate her and render her an 
object of derision. Those who establish foundations 
for teaching the sciences ought, at least, to under^ 
stand their dignity. To connect pecuniary specula* 
tion, or commercial advantages, with schemes for 
promoting the progress of knowledge, is to take crops 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 207 

without employing manure; is to create steriHty, 
and destroy improvement. A scientific institution 
ought no more to be made an object of profit than 
an hospital, or a charitable establishment. Intellectual 
wants are at least as worthy of support as corpo* 
real wants, and they ought to be provided for with 
the same feeling of nobleness and liberality. The 
language expected by the members of a scientific 
body from the directors ought not to be, * We have 
increased your property, we have raised the value 
of your shares.' It ought rather to be, * We have 
endeavoured to apply your funds to useful purposes^ 
to promote the diffusion of science, to encoun^ 
discovery, and to exalt the scientific glory of your 
country.' 

*«^What this institution has done, it would ill be* 
come a pei*son in my place to detail; but that it 
has tended to the progress of knowledge and inven- 
tion, will not, I believe, be questioned. Compare 
the expenditure with the advantages. It would not 
support the least of your public amusements ; and 
the income of an establishment, which, in its e&amp;cts, 
may be said to be national, is derived from annual 
subscriptions scarcely greater than those which a 
learned professor of Edinburgh obtains from a single 
class. 

*^ With more ample support, more, undoubtedly, 
would be effected. With a devotion to the experii- 
mental sciences and arts, nothing but good could 
result from an extension of the undertaking : and it is 
no mean object to the country, that the first attempt 
of this kind should succeed. 

** The progression of physical science is much more 
amnected with your prosperity than is usually inwu 



SOS MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

gined. You owe to experimental philosophy some 
of the most important and peculiar of your advan- 
tages. It is not by foreign conquests chiefly that 
you are become great, but by a conquest of nature 
in your own country. It is not so much by colo- 
nisation that you have attained your pre-eminence 
or wealth, but by the cultivation of the riches of 
your own soil. Why, at this moment, are you able to 
supply the world with a thousand articles of iron and 
steel necessary for the purposes of life ? It is by arts 
derived from chemistry and mechanics, and founded 
purely upon experiments. Why is the steam-engine 
now carrying on operations which formerly employed, 
in painfid and humiliating labour, thousands of our 
robust peasantry, who are now more nobly or more 
usefiilly serving their country either with the sword 
or with the plough ? It was in consequence of ex- 
periments upon the nature of heat and pure physical 
investigations. 

** In every part of the world manufactures made 
from the mere clay and pebbles of your soil may be 
found ; and to what is this owing ? To chemical arts 
and experiments. You have excelled all other people 
in the products of industry. But why ? because you 
have assisted industry by science. Do not regard as 
indifferent what is your true and your greatest glory. 
Except in these respects, and in the light of a pure 
system of faith, in what are you superior to Athens 
or to Rome ? Do you carry away from them the 
palm in literature and the fine arts ? Do you not 
rather glory, and justly too, in being, in these re- 
spects, their imitators ? Is it not demonstrated by the 
nature of your system of public education, and by 
your popular amusements ? In what, then, are you 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 209 

their superiors? In every thing connected with 
physical science j with the experimental arts. These 
are your characteristics. Do not neglect them. You 
have a Newton, who is the glory, not only of your 
own country, but of the human race. You have a 
Bacon, whose precepts may still be attended to with 
advantage. Shall Englishmen slumber in that path 
which these great men have opened, and be over- 
taken by their neighbours? Say, rather, that all 
assistance shall be given to their efforts ; that they 
shall be attended to, encouraged, and supported.'' 

The following extract in praise of experimental 
philosophy, and in one of its noblest relations, — its 
influence on the spirit of the age, and its tendency 
to strengthen rational freedom, and preserve a people 
from a brutal or irrational despotism, — is from a lec- 
ture on electrical science delivered, in May 1808 or 
1809, when the subjugation of Europe was threat- 
ened by the military power of France : — 

" In congratulating you on the present era of 
philosophical discovery, and on the dawn of a new 
science now opening upon us, I cannot conclude 
without adverting to what, in these peculiar times, 
appears to me a deep and interesting truth. 

" The scientific gloiy of a country may be considered, 
in some measure, as an indication of its innate strength. 
The exaltation of reason must necessarily be con- 
nected with the exaltation of the other noble facul- 
ties of the mind ; and there is one spirit of enterprise, 
vigour, and conquest, in science, arts, and arms. 

" Science for its progression requires patronage, 
— but it must be a patronage bestowed, a patronage 
received, with dignity. It must be preserved inde- 
pendent. It can bear no fetters, not even fetters of 

VOL. I. p 



210 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

gold, and least of all those fetters in which ignorance 
or selfishness may attempt to shackle it. 

" And there is no country which ought so much to 
glory in its progress, which is so much interested in 
its success, as this happy island. Science has been a 
prime cause of creating for us the inexhaustible 
wealth of manufactures, and it is by science that it 
must be preserved and extended. We are interested 
as a commercial people, — * we are interested as a free 
people. The age of glory of a nation is likewise the 
age of its security. The same dignified feeling, which 
urges men to endeavour to gain a dominion over 
nature, will preserve them from the humiliation of 
slavery. Natural, and moral, and religious know« 
ledge, are of one family ; and happy is that country, 
and great its strength, where they dwell together in 
union.** 

The fitness of science to improve the female cha^ 
racter is forcibly described in an introductory lecture, 
which he delivered in Dublin, in the theatre of the 
Dublin Society, in 1811 : — 

" In this room, I am sure, I need not enter into any 
elaborate arguments in favour of a ceilain acquaint^ 
ance with the philosophy of nature in the system of 
improvement of the female mind. The same reason- 
ing would, I conceive, apply in this case as to the 
study of the mathematics as a part of the education 
of the other sex. By accustoming the mind to strict 
reasoning, and minute observation as to matters of 
fact, the judgment is strengthened, and rendered 
more acute and distinct in its application to common 
aifairs. Unhealthy sensibilities are destroyed, and 
the imagination refined and exalted. It has been too 
much the custom to endeavour to attach ridicule to 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 21V 

the literary and scientific acquisitions of women. The 
fashionable education is principally directed to those 
accomplishments which please only in that season of 
youth which in itself is full of fascinations ; whilst it 
neglects the more solid endowments, which give a 
dignity and a charm to the advanced periods of life, 
and which, independent of external advantages, are 
exalted and rendered delightful by time. In a very 
popular work, Milton is quoted against the literary and 
scientific acquisitions of women ; but the instance is an 
unhappy one ; for this great man, most illustrious as 
a poet, unfortunately was not distinguished either for 
his respect, his attention, or his attachment to the 
softer sex ; and yet, notwithstanding this, he has 
made the chief pleasure of the primeval paradise to 
consist in the study and admiration of the wonders 
of nature, as if conscious of their fitness for the best 
condition of our being. The standard of the con- 
sideration and importance of females in society is, I 
believe, likewise the standard of civilisation. The 
leisure of the higher classes is so great, their in- 
fluence so strong, that it is almost their duty to 
endeavour to awaken and keep alive the love of 
improvement. It is only ignorance or selfishness 
which can wish to prevent the diSusion of knowledge. 
It is the grand privilege of human nature ; it is the 
lamp which guides our steps amidst the obscurity of 
things, which preserves the mind awake to its just 
interests, carrying it from transient and trifling 
objects to those which are permanent and useful ; 
affording a noble employment in youth, a delightful 
consolation in age ; teaching that in all things there 
is order, and harmony, and wisdom ; exalting the sen-* 

p 2 



212 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

sual into the intellectual, and the intellectual into the 
moral and religious being/' 

In a geological lecture, after alluding to the dura- 
bility of granite, and its fitness in consequence for 
public buildings and monuments, he makes the fol- 
lowing appeal in favour of them : — 

^&lt; In all cases when great public monuments are to 
be erected this is the stone that should be employed. 
In touching upon this subject, I cannot avoid express- 
ing a deep regret that we have so few of these memo- 
rials in this great country. Yet our materials are 
copious. Our harvests of glory are as rich, nay, 
even more abundant, than those of the great elder 
nations. Why should the spirit be wanting by which 
they are to be gathered in, and made permanent ? 
We have had philosophers who are the glory of the 
whole human race ; heroes and statesmen, who are 
the rivals of the illustrious of Athens and of Rome : 
yet this metropolis offers no durable tribute of respect, 
either to our science, or to our naval or military 
glory ; and in a thousand years, though there may be 
a new and more magnificent city on the banks of the 
Thames, yet there will scarcely be a wall of what is 
now beheld standing; — nothing to speak to posterity 
of what the people of Britain were in these memo- 
rable times — in philosophy, the guides, — in litera- 
ture, the instructors, — and in politics, the assertors of 
the independence of Europe. Nor would such works 
be devoid of immediate utility, and beneficial effect* 
A few columns raised to the illustrious dead, — a few 
national laboratories or museums devoted to the me-, 
mory of great men, and to the use of students, would 
rise as land-marks of fame, would continually excite 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 213 

to excellence. No motive for exertion is so strong as 
that founded upon the sympathy of the good and the 
wise ; no reward so sweet as that of being held up 
to public admiration as a benefactor of the species ; 
no glory so pure, so calculated to awaken great minds, 
as that of immortality." 

These few extracts may suffice as examples of the 
appeals, which he occasionally made to the feelings of 
his audience, in favour of the great interests of science, 
and the advantages attending its cultivation, which 
he took a particular pleasure in advocating. 

The next extracts I shall make will be in relation 
to the doctrines of science, and the methods of re- 
search and discovery, with which I shall intermix 
some of his views relating to the influence of science 
on the minds of its cultivators, and the liberal man- 
ner in which it ought to be pursued. 

The following remarks may serve as introductory. 
They are contained in some very early lectures on 
the " History of Natural Science,'* which, I believe, 
he never delivered, and of which fragments only are 
remaining : — 

" In all cases in science, it is our business to ana- 
lyse every principle, and to ascertain to what expres- 
sions of facts it relates, or to what simpler laws it 
may be referred. It is our duty to separate proposi- 
tions from human passions, and to reason on them as 
mere representations of things ; and to employ no 
terms that are either perplexed, or doubtful, or un- 
common. The same processes of thought ever will 
apply in common life as in science. Experience must 
be our guide ; experience, or moral feeling, founded 
on accurate and distinct knowledge. Words alone 
must never be suffered to satisfy or fill the mind, and 

p 3 



214 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

their relations to facts must be ascertained, before 
they can be considered either of importance or of 
use. The imagination must be subjected to the judg- 
ment, or rather they must mutually operate, and 
.assist, and correct, each other. We may be always 
safely entertained by wit, — we may be always safely 
delighted by eloquence, — for they are the life and 
organs of the mind ; but never let us consider wit as 
argument, or eloquence as truth, till we have coolly 
examined them by the test of right reason, for this is 
the only certain guide of opinion ; a principle the same 
in all ages, and in all nations, independent of fashion 
or caprice — unchanging, immortal." 

In an introductory lecture for 1811, on electro- 
chemical science, there is a very happy and lucid 
exposition of the modern manner of prosecuting 
science, and which, in his own researches, he always 
employed. The first part is to be found in the intro- 
duction which he prefixed to his Elements of Chemi- 
cal Philosophy. 

" The foundations of electro-chemicaJ philosophy, 
like those of every other department of natural 
science, are observation, experiment, and analogy. 
By observation, facts are distinctly and minutely im- 
pressed in the mind ; by analogy, similar facts are 
connected ; by experiment, new facts are discovered ; 
and, in the progression of knowledge, observation, 
guided by analogy, leads to experiment, and anahgy^ 
confirmed by ejcperiment, becomes scientific truth. 
To the philosophical mind these ideas are familiar, 
but to the student an illustration may not be without 
advantage. Whoever considers with attention the 
slender green vegetable filaments (conferva rivu* 
laris), which in the summer exist in almost all streams^ 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 215 

lakes, and pools, under the different circumstances of 
fihade and sunshine, will discover globules of air upon 
the filaments exposed under water to the sun, but no 
air on the filaments that are shaded. He will find 
that the efiect is owing to the presence of light This 
is an observatioTij but it gives no information respect- 
ing the nature of the air. Let a wine glass filled 
with water be inverted over the confervae; the air 
will collect in the upper part of the glass, and when 
the glass is filled with air, it may be closed with the 
hand, placed in its usual position, and an inflamed 
taper introduced into it; the taper will burn with 
more brilliancy than in the atmosphere. This is an 
experiment. If the phenomena are reasoned upon, 
and the question is put, Whether all vegetables of this 
kind, in fresh or in salt water, do not produce such 
air, under like circumstances, the inquirer is guided 
by anahgy ; and when this is determined to be the 
case by new trials, a general scientific truth is esta- 
blished, that all confervae in the sunshine produce a 
species of air that supports flame in a superior degree ; 
which has been shown to be the case by various mi- 
nute observations. And the general scientific truth 
admits of numerous applications to the economy of 
nature ; such as the deterioration or renovation of the 
atmosphere, and the uses of even the humblest forms 
of vegetables in the general system of things. These 
principles of research, and combinations of methods, 
have been little understood, except in late times, 
and almost the whole of the great fabric of mo- 
dern science has been raised upon them. A few 
important discoveries, indeed, have been owing to 
accident^ but their application and connections have 
entirely depended upon expeiimental researches, 

p 4* 



216 MEMOIRS OF THE LIKE OF 

guided by just analogy. It is by experiment that 
different species of matter have been made to act 
upon each other, their relations determined, and their 
hidden properties discovered; and that facts have 
arisen from the workshops of the artisan, or from the 
furnaces of the alchemist, to become parts of an ex- 
tensive and profound science. Experiment may not 
unaptly be compared to the chain in mythological 
romance, which binds down the Proteus of nature, and 
obliges him to confess what he is, to renounce his 
monstrous and misshapen forms, and to exhibit himself 
in his orderly, comely, and divine lineaments." 

Concerning conjectures and speculations, the fol- 
lowing remarks occur in a lecture for 1809 : — 

" Upon all occasions, when I venture upon a con- 
jecture, you will, I trust, have the goodness to con- 
sider it as brought forward, not as an opinion which 
it would be painful to relinquish, but as a hint which 
may lead to inquiry. Indeed, speculation should 
always be regarded in this point of view, and, except 
when it has its source in facts, and its termination in 
experiments, ought to be rejected as dangerous and 
unprofitable. Hypothesis should be considered merely 
as an intellectual instrument of discovery, which at 
any time may be relinquished for a better instrument. 
It should never be spoken of as truth ; its highest 
praise is verisimility. To be attached to mere specu- 
lation is to be directed by a dream. Knowledge can 
only be acquired by the senses : nature has no arche- 
type in the human imagination ; her empire is given 
only to industry and action, guided and governed by 
experience." 

Relative to the enigmas of science he says, ^^ There 
will always be enigmas for us in nature as in pbilo- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. £17 

sophy, which will keep alive the faculty of research^ 
and the active power of investigation. And it is 
much wiser to rejoice that something has been dis- 
covered, than to regret that so much is still concealed 
from us/* 

In another place, confessing his inability to solve 
certain problems in electro-chemical science, he 
says, — 

** I make these confessions of ignorance, rather with 
a feeling of pleasure and of hope, than of uneasiness 
and humiliation ; '' and he immediately adds, '' In* 
sulated, striking, but unexplained facts in science, are 
to the philosopher what green branches and fruits in 
the ocean are to the mariner voyaging for discovery ; 
they are omens of land, which, even though he him- 
self should not have the felicity of attaining, he may 
yet indicate to others. 

" I hardly know which we ought most to rejoice 
at— the progress that Juis been made in natural know- 
ledge, or the progress that is to be made. If a limit 
could be obtained, if we could rest satisfied with what 
is known, how great a source of activity, profit, and 
pleasure, would be destroyed ! And we cannot be too 
grateful for that wonderful constitution of the exter- 
nal universe, by which it is rendered an inexhaustible 
source of interest to the inexhaustible human mind ; 
by which it is so admirably adapted to keep awake 
that happy curiosity, which is a constant germ of im- 
provement ; that noble kind of ambition which con* 
tinually tends to exalt the intellectual being ; that 
flame of life, unquenchable even in the fountains of 
knowledge.*' 

Alluding to some wild speculations, in which irri- 



^18 MEMOIBS OF THE LIFE OF 

tability, and even sensibility, were referred by the 
early inquirers to electrical powers, he remarks : — 

** In the early stages of discovery, the imagination 
is often dazzled by the brilliancy of the new facts, 
and trusts to weak or remote analogies. The whole 
language of nature informs us, that in animated beings 
there is something above our potvers of investigation / 
something which employs, combines, and arranges 
the gross elements of matter, — a spark of celestial 
fire, by which life is kindled and preserved, and 
which, if even the instruments it employs are inde- 
istructible in their essence, must itself^ of necessity, be 
immortal/* 

; On the beneficial influence of doubt in science, he 
thus expresses himself: — 

** It is a great matter that we should put no impro- 
per confidence in any notion or doctrine. Doubt in 
physical research is highly salutary, and is always the 
parent of inquiry, and often of truth. Though our 
reasonings may have the perfect character of veri- 
similiiy as applied to known objects, yet we have no 
right to say that our view is an ultimate one ; our 
system of logic cannot unfold all the resources of 
nature. The maxim of a chemical investigator should 
be that adopted in the motto of an illustrious society, 
* To rely on the word of no master/ Nothing has so 
much checked the progress of philosophy as the con- 
fidence of teachers in delivering dogmas as truths 
which it would be presumptuous to question. It was 
this spirit which, for more than ten centuries, made 
the crude physics of Aristotle the natural philosophy 
of the whole of Europe. It was this spirit which 
produced the imprisonment of the elder Bacon, and 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 219 

Ale recantation of Galileo. It is this spirit, notwith- 
stimding the example of the second Bacon, assisted 
by his reproof, his genius, and his influence, which 
has, even in later times, attached men to imaginary 
systems, to mere abstracted combinations of words, 
rather than to the visible and living world, and which 
has often induced them to delight more in brilliant 
dreams than in beautiful and grand realities/' 

In a lecture for 1810, noticing a chemical process 
which he believed might prove useful to the arts, and 
lucrative to any individual who might employ it, he 
says, &lt;&lt; I have disclosed all that I know upon the 
matter ; and it will be a source of infinite satisfaction 
to me, if the publication of these statements should 
lead ingenious men into the path of inquiry* You, I 
trust, will do credit to my motives. I have no wish 
to conceal any thing which may be a source of profit 
even to others ; for I hold that science in little estima- 
tion which is applied to selfish commercial specula^ 
tion : the true object of discovery should be know- 
ledge and intellectual power ; and these cannot be 
purchased by thousands, and, in my humble estima- 
tion, are equivalent to millions." 

I shall give one extract more. It is from a lecture 
on geology, relative to the end and objects of scien- 
tific research and the use of speculation. They were 
subjects to which he attached great importance, and 
his views respecting them he seldom lost an opportu- 
nity of expressing : — 

'^ In the investigation of geology, as in almost all 
other inquiries to which the human mind has been 
ardently devoted, very few speculations have indeed 
been formed, not possessed of some immediate or 
remote applications to the real progress of science^ 



S20 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

The understanding is permanently guided by expe- 
rience ; and brilliant delusions, even though conse- 
crated by the efforts of genius, cannot very long 
continue to deceive the public. Useful truths are 
often ascertained in the attempts made to detect im- 
posing errors ; and the appeal to experiment, which 
is the last and the only certain test of the merits of 
opinion, can hardly fail to lead to discovery. Hypo- 
thesis uniformly produces discussion ; and the more 
ingenious, and the more active, the talents by which 
it was formed, the greater is the probability of a 
minute and serious examination of facts. To explain 
nature, and the laws instituted by the Author of 
nature, and to apply the phenomena presented in the 
external world to useful purposes, are the great ends 
of physical investigation ; and these ends can only be 
obtained by the exertion of all the faculties of the 
mind; and the imagination, the memory, and the 
reason, are perhaps equally essential to the develop- 
ment of great and important truths." 

Of distinguished men of science, Mr. Cavendish, 
Dr. Priestley, and Scheele, were the three chemists on 
whose characters my brother most delighted to dwell, 
and to hold up to admiration ; and after the names 
of Bacon and Newton, theirs must have most fre- 
quently recurred to his memory, and are most fre- 
quently mentioned in his lectures. He appears to 
have considered them as exemplars of knowledge^ 
curiosity i and genius. His sketches of them are given 
according to his own peculiar views of the methods 
of science ; and they mark strongly his opinion of 
scientific merit, and the high respect in which he 
held it, in its different grades. Of Mr. Cavendish 
there is the following notice in a chemical lecture of 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT* 221 

1810, when his loss was recent ; and it was in con^^ 
sidering the progress of chemical discovery, and the 
contributions made to it in particular by this eminent 
philosopher, that he thus digresses into the character 
of the man: — 

" Of all the philosophers of the present age, Mr. 
Cavendish was the one who combined, in the highest 
degree, a depth and extent of mathematical know- 
ledge with delicacy and precision in the methods of 
experimental research. It may be said of him, what 
can, perhaps, hardly be said of any other person, that 
whatever he has done has been perfect at the moment 
of its production. His processes were all of a finished 
nature. Executed by the hand of a master, they 
required no correction ; and though many of them 
were performed in the very infancy of chemical phi- 
losophy, yet their accuracy and their beauty have 
remained amidst the progress of discovery, and their 
merits have been illustrated by discussion, and exalted 
by time. 

** In general, the most common motives which 
induce men to study are, the love of distinction, of 
glory, or the desire of power ; and we have no right 
to object to motives of this kind ; but it ought to be 
mentioned, in estimating the character of Mr. Caven- 
dish, that his grand stimulus to exertion was evidently 
the love of truth and of knowledge. Unambitious, 
unassuming, it was with difficulty that he was per* 
suaded to bring forward his important discoveries. 
He disliked notoriety, and he was, as it were, fearful 
of the voice of fame. His labours are recorded with 
the greatest dignity and simplicity, and in the fewest 
possible words, without parade or apology; and it 
seemed as if in publication he was performing, not 



992 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

what was a duty to himself, but what was a 
duty to the public. His life was devoted to sci- 
ence, and his social hours were passed amongst 
a few friends, principally members of the Royal 
Society. He was reserved to strangers ; but, when 
he was familiar, his conversation was lively, and 
full of varied information. Upon all subjects of 
science he was luminous and profound ; and in dis- 
cussion wonderfully acute. Even to the very last 
week of his life, when he was nearly seventy-nine, he 
retained his activity of body, and all his energy and 
sagacity of intellect. He was warmly interested in 
all new subjects of science ; and several times in the 
course of the last year witnessed, or assisted in, some 
experiments which were carried on in this theatre, or 
in the laboratory below. 

« Since the death of Newton, if I may be per- 
mitted to ^ve an opinion, England has sustained no 
scientific loss so great as that of Cavendish. Like his 
great predecessor, he died full of years and of glory^ 
His name will be an object of more veneration in 
future ages than at the present moment. Though it 
was unknown in the busy scenes of life, or in the 
popular discussions of the day, it will remain illus^ 
trious in the annals of science, which are as imperisb. 
able as that nature to which they belong ; and it will 
be an immortal honour to his house, to his age, and to 
his country." 

In the same lecture he describes Dr. Priestley^ 
whoi, with different qualities^ and powers of mind 
inferior to Cavendish, obtained as brilliant success in 
the same pursuits by a different method, in which 
activity and enterprise, and the love of truth and of 
discovery, were predominant : — ^ 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. SSS 

&lt;&lt; Stimulated by the examples of Dr. Black and 

Mr. Cavendish, Dr. Priestley, about the year I77O, 

applied himself with intense ardour to experiments on 

the subject of air. By a constant application of the 

combinations and agencies of the various chemical 

substances, he discovered oxygen gas, nitrous gas, 

nitrous oxide, and light carburetted hydrogen ; and, 

by using the mercurial apparatus, he exhibited seve* 

ral of the acids in an aeriform state, and demonstrated 

their properties. As a discoverer, Dr. Priestley stands 

in the highest rank ; and it is scarcely possible to 

advance a step, or to perform a process in pneu* 

matic chemistry, without having recourse to his me« 

thods, and making use of substances he first exhibited^ 

His activity was unceasing ; and in physical science 

all his exertions were crowned with success. His 

experiments, though neither accurate nor minute, 

were almost always upon subjects of importance ; he 

made up for the defect of his manipulations by the 

rapidity of execution, and the novelty of his methods. 

He prepared the way for more accomplished che- 

mists ; he furnished them with matter of inquiry ; 

and, in the true spirit of liberality, offered to the 

world all his treasures of science. He was as the 

miner, who discovers hidden riches, and furnishes 

them in the unwrought state to the cunning artist ; 

the ore that he brought to light was crude, but it was 

precious and useful. To theory Dr. Priestley paid 

but little attention ; and his hypotheses were rapidly 

formed, and relinquished with an ardour almost pue-^ 

rile. His chemical writings are principally narrations 

of facts ; and though the style and arrangement are 

defective, from hasty composition, yet it is impossible 

not to be amused and interested by his details. They 



9S4 MEMOIRS OF THE LIF£ OF 

are copious^ distinct, and satisfactory ; and the man- 
ner in which they are pursued leaves a very favour- 
able impression of the simplicity, the ingenuousness^ 
and candour of his mind. 

" Dr. Priestley was a discoverer before he was a 
chemist In a letter, which I received from him a 
few months before his death, he makes this statement, 
in his usual unaffected manner. It is easy, therefore, 
to find a reason for the occasional incorrectness of 
his views. Throughout the whole course of his life 
his attention was never undivided. His mornings 
were devoted to experiment ; his evenings to politi- 
cal, theological, or metaphysical inquiries. He is an 
example how much may be done by small means, 
when applied with industry and ingenuity, and how 
easy it is, in some instances, to enlarge the bounda- 
ries of chemical knowledge ; and how much more 
real and permanent glory is to be gained by pursuing 
the immutable in nature, than the transient and capri- 
cious in human opinion. When Dr. Priestley's name 
is mentioned in future ages, it will be as one of the 
most illustrious chemical discoverers of the eighteenth 
century." 

In the next lecture, the subject of which was 
nitrous gas, he gives some further particulars of Dr. 
Priestley ; and especially of the kind of apparatus 
used by him. Having observed that he ** knew no 
book so likely to lead a student into the path of dis- 
covery as Dr. Priestley's six volumes upon air,*' he 
continues : — 

" His most important experiments were made with 
apparatus of the most simple kind. His grandest and 
most expensive instrument, Uke that of Dr. Hales, 
was a gun barrel. He used phials and bent tubes 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 225 

for retorts ; a wash-hand basin often served him for 
a pneumatic trough, and instead of porcelain tubes he 
employed tobacco pipes ; and with this simple ma- 
chinery he discovered a greater number of new sub- 
stances than any philosopher of the last century." 

I shall extract the next paragraph of the lecture, 
describing the manner in which nitrous gas was dis- 
covered by Dr. Priestley. It^ is a good example of 
the manner in which he made his discoveries, and it 
also well displays the acumen of intellect of Mr. 
Cavendish. 

&lt;* Dr. Hales has mentioned in his statical essays^ 
that, during the solution of a mineral, which he calls 
Walton Pyrites, and which must have been a com- 
mon pyrites, he procured air, which, when mixed with 
common air, gave a turbid red fume. Dr. Priestley, in 
mentioning to Mr. Cavendish that he wished much to 
witness the phenomenon, but that he despaired of 
ever procuring Walton Pyrites, was advised by Mr. 
Cavendish to try any pyrites, or metallic substances ; 
for he had no doubt that the properties of the air de- 
pended upon the spirit of nitre, the nitrous acid, and 
not upon the substance dissolved. This hint led to 
the knowledge of the properties of a new elastic fluid : . 
Dr. Priestley first procured nitrous air by dissolving 
brass in nitrous acid." 

To the high merit of Scheele he pays the following 
tribute of generous admiration : — 

•• I have mentioned Scheele as an admirable ex- 
perimenter. As, in the last lecture, I endeavoured to 
do justice to the philosophical labours of Cavendish 
and Priestley, I shall, with the same kind of feeling, 
refer to the exalted character of the only foreign phi- 
losopher of the last century, whose merits as a dis- 

VOL. I. Q 



226 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

coverer can be at all put in competition with those 
of our countrymen. 

" Scheele offers an extraordinary instance of the 
power of genius to conquer difficulties, and to create 
resources of its own. Born in a country town in 
Sweden, without friends, and without fortune, he 
seemed, by a disposition which may be called almost 
instinctive, to have pursued the study of chemistry. 
He was brought up as an apothecary and druggist ; 
and led, by the circumstances of his business, to 
attend to some of the chemical qualities of substances 
employed in pharmacy, he instituted a train of inves- 
tigations, which gradually led to discoveries of the 
noblest kind. Scheele, amidst the labours of an un- 
profitable occupation, found means of exalting and ex- 
tending the most refined parts of chemistry. His 
days were devoted to a laborious business ; his nights 
to solitary study. Using the common apparatus of 
pharmacy, he performed the most delicate manipu- 
lations, neither seeking fame nor profit by his labours; 
for, till he became acquainted with Bergman, he was 
ignorant of the honour which would result from dis- 
coveries : neither seeking fame nor profit, he pur- 
sued science, because his mind was imbued with an 
unquenchable desire for truth. Nothing could re- 
press the ardour of his mind, nor damp the fire of his 
genius ; and his short Hfe was a career of enterprise 
and of glory. Scheele made known at least thirteen 
new bodies ; and his chemistry may be called almost 
his own creation. His theories were formed with 
boldness, but he attached no importance to th&amp;m 
except as the mere links for the connection of facts. 
He was the faithful disciple of the school of Bacon 
and of Newton. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 227 

" At the time that Scheele began his chemical 
labours, about 1772, Bergman, professor of che- 
mistry at Upsal, was the great scientific luminary of 
Sweden. He had distinguished himself by some very 
profound investigations concerning chemical attrac- 
tion, and had ascertained some important facts re- 
specting metallic bodies and neutral salts. The 
manner in which Bergman brought forward Scheele 
is highly honourable to the scientific character of the 
country. He wrote a preface for his first work, was 
his friend and protector, and, relinquishing the vener- 
able authority of his chair, he became the disciple of 
a young man as yet unknown to the world. It has 
been said of Bergman, that * his greatest discovery 
was the discovery of Scheele.* It may, perhaps, 
likewise, be said, that his greatest glory was the glory 
of raising and exalting merit, even though it was in 
acknowledging his own inferiority. Such examples 
are very rare. There are few instances of such 
sacrifices of selfish feelings ; and that they should be 
faithfully recorded is necessary for the honour of 
human nature, and for demonstrating, to use the 
language of Bacon, borrowed from Scripture, that 
* wisdom is justified of her children.* " 

In another lecture, in which he has noticed the 
character of Scheele in similar terms of the highest 
praise and admiration, he says : — 

" I have been drawn into this eulogium, not merely 
because it is fully deserved, but because the example 
of Scheele demonstrates what great effects may be 
produced by small means ; how little is required to 
extend the empire of knowledge, when genius is 
assisted by industry." 

In illustration of his views of science, and of the 

Q 2 



2^8 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

manner in which he made biographical notices au3d« 
liary to instruction, and to the exciting a lively and 
worthy interest in the minds of his audience, I might 
transcribe many other sketches of the characters of 
distinguished men» from his lectures ; but that this 
part of my work may be kept within moderate bounds^ . 
I shall add three more only : one of the elder Pliny } 
one of the second Bacon ; and the third of Newton : 
the two first taken from his early geological lectures j 
the third a fragment. Even were they merely ideal 
delineations, they would have a value. 

After having remarked that the philosophy of 
Rome was little more than an imperfect copy of that 
of Greece, he says : — 

" The only Roman who really deserved the title of 
an investigator into nature was the elder Pliny. This 
illustrious person possessed the highest degree of 
industry, and an ardour in the pursuit of knowledge 
which no difficulties could repress. He considered 
all the productions of the earth as worthy of atten- 
tion, either for their order, their beauty, their uses, 
or relations to man. Possessed of such requisites for 
discovery, he was still deficient in the great charac- 
teristics of a strong mind and a philosophical spirit. 
Endowed with a simple heart, and, apparently, inca- 
pable of deceiving, he believed almost whatever was 
related to him ; doubt seemed to be a stranger to his 
understanding. He beheld things in their obvious 
forms with delight and with wonder, and, satisfied with 
what he saw, he seldom attempted to refer efifects to 
their causes. Endowed with none of the high ele- 
ments of reason, — with none of those restless work- 
ings of the imagination which produce new conibin- 
ations of ideas, new truths, and new inventions, — ^he 
was nevertheless a minute observer and a faithful 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 229 

historiarr, but neither an experimental philosopher 
nor a man of genius." 

Of Bacon he remarks; speaking of the period in 
which he lived : — 

" Many scientific persons, before Bacon, had pur- 
sued the method of experiment in all its precision, — 
many had dared to despise the logic and forms of the 
ancients ; but he was the first philosopher who laid 
down plans for extending knowledge of universal 
application; who ventured to assert, that all the 
sciences could be nothing more than expressions or 
arrangements of facts ; and that the first step towards 
the attainment of real discovery was the humiliating 
confession of ignorance. Bacon was prepared by 
nature, by education, and by his habit of study, for 
effecting the great revolution in philosophy. His 
knowledge was extensive ; his instances were copious ; 
his genius was equally capable of developing the 
lighter and more profound relations of things. He 
possessed a strong feeling, but it was uniformly 
directed by reason ; he was gifted with a vivid ima- 
gination, but it was tempered and modified by a most 
correct taste and judgment. The influence of rank 
and of situation assisted his views. The public was 
prepared to receive them ; and he was enabled to ad^ 
vance his opinions in full confidence that they would 
be adopted with reverence in his own time, and that 
they would carry his memory into future ages with 
great and with unchanging glory.** 

He immediately adds, " The pursuit of the new 
method of investigation, in a very short time, wholly 
altered the face of every department of natural know- 
ledge ; but its influence was in no case more distinct 
than in the advancement of geology and chemistry. 

q3 



230 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Though much labour had been bestowed upon these 
extensive fields of investigation, they had hitherto, as 
it has been seen, been little productive. Speculation 
had been misplaced, observation confined, and ex- 
periment principally directed, rather towards impos- 
sible than to practical things. In the novel system, 
h}rpothesis was exploded, except as a guide to ac- 
tual trials ; combinations of thought were considered 
as truths only when conformable to nature, and not 
when they merely expressed the caprices of the ima- 
gination ; and those inquiries only were considered 
as valuable, which were made upon the hidden sen- 
sible properties of things, and upon the existing 
relations of facts." 

On Newton are the following reflections : — 
•* There are undoubtedly, in science, fortunate 
combinations ; there are happy times, in which new 
inventions bestow new powers, and in which men 
are, as it were, compelled to follow an easy path to 
glory ; but, for all this occasional interference of 
accident, labour, — steady and uninterrupted labour, — 
and the virtue of continued attention, are the true 
sources of noble and happy discoveries ; and whoever 
possesses these enviable habits of mind has the chief 
and the most certain elements of success. In the 
study of nature there can be no exertion thrown 
away ; for the general laws belonging to it are no 
less simple and grand, than the economy which they 
govern is complicated and minute ; and, when observ- 
ation is carried as far as the senses can reach, it is still 
capable of being rendered more accurate, by means 
of the different apparatuses of instruments, which are 
constantly becoming more perfect ; so that the philo- 
sopher, who, having ascertained great truths in a 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 231 

particular department of science, should pretend to 
fix them as limits, would act as ridiculously as that 
Danish king who commanded the ocean to stay its 
waves. When Newton was asked by Dr. Pemberton, 
to what he owed his great discoveries, he said, to 
his habitual and patient attention ; and the same 
great man, in a conversation in his later years, upon 
the progress of discovery, having asked, * what was 
doing at Cambridge,' and being answered by Dr. 
Barrow, that * there was nothing doing,' that he 
had ' occupied all the ground,' jocosely said, * Beat 
the bushes, and there is still plenty of game to be 
raised.* 

" Original profundity of 'genius, talents for ab- 
stracted research, and vigorous constitution of mind, 
combined with sagacity and acuteness, are undoubt- 
edly associated with the powers by which lofty truths 
are attained ; and they belonged, in the highest de- 
gree, to the author of the Principia, and the Optics ; 
but these alone, though essential to the develop- 
ment of his abilities, would have accomplished no- 
thing, without the faculty of continued exertion, 
which induced him to pass successive nights and 
days in contemplation, inattentive to the wants of the 
body ; which enabled him to attain that sublime state 
of intellect, in which all sensible objects are excluded, 
and in which the mind was nourished by its own 
thoughts concerning the laws of the heavens and 
the earth made the subjects of active meditation." 

In illustration of his manner of treating the 
sciences which were the subjects of his lectures, I 
shall now give only a small number of specimens : 
in the course of the work opportunities will occur of 
adding to them, especially in exemplification of his 

Q 4 



£3^ M£M01R8 OF TBE LIFE OF 

tn9J(iner of exciting an interest in the minds of men 
of Bciencei by communicating discoveries as they 
were made ; and of making his audience, as it were&gt; 
spectators and participators of the progress of dis- 
covery. The following extract from a lecture of 
1810y both gives a distinct idea of the nature of 
chemical attraction and a history of its discovery, 
with a vindication of the right of Newton to the 
glory of having laid the foundation of chemical 
philosophy : — 

&lt;' By a singular concurrence of circumstances it 
was reserved for the same great genius who developed 
the laws of the planetary system, and who unfolded 
the harmonious moveilients of the great masses of 
matter in the universe, — it was reserved for Newton 
to lay the foundation of the first theory of chemical 
action, and to solve the diversified phenomena of 
corpuscular changes, by a great and universal prin- 
ciple, similar to that which he had before applied to 
the phenomena of the heavenly bodies. Newton, 
towards the close of his life, was made Master of the 
Mint ; and that this office was once bestowed upon a 
man of science, was a great and glorious circumstance 
for the progress of chemistry. Newton performed 
the duties of Master of the Mint, and made a num- 
ber of experiments upon metallic solutions and 
alloys. He discovered several new alloys, particu- 
larly that of a mixture which fuses at the heat of 
boiling water, and which is composed of lead, tin, 
and bismuth. In reasoning upon the phenomena of 
the dissolvent powers of acids, his sagacious mind at 
once perceived the extension of an order which pre- 
vailed with respect to the great arrangements of 
matter. Sugar dissolves in water, alkalies unite with 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 893 

acids, metals dissolve in acids. &lt;Is not this,' said 
Newton, • on account of an attraction between their 
particles ? Copper, dissolved in aquaf(Ml;is, is thrown 
down by iron. Is not this because the particles of 
the iron have a stronger attraction for the particles 
of the acid than those of copper ? and do not dif- 
ferent bodies attract each other with different degrees 
of force?* • 

'&lt; A principle, at once so beautiful and simple, and 
enforced by the authority of such a master, was im- 
mediately adopted. Geoffroy, the most able chemist 
in the Academy of Science, two years after Nevrton 
had published a complete development of his chemical 
opinions, attempted to make a table of chemical at- 
tractions, and to show, by numerical expressions, the 
powers which bodies have of separating each oth^ 
from solvents. His manner of doing this was, how- 
ever, far from being generous. He changed the 
name of attraction to that of (fffinity^ and made no 
mention whatever of the original inventor in his 
paper. Though the principle was referred to New- 
ton by Senac, who published an elementary book 
on chemistry, in French, in 1723 ; yet still the au- 
thority of Geoffroy, and his successors in the academy, 
who produced several popular elementary works on 
chemistry, influenced, in a higher degree, the public 
opinion, and for a long time the erroneous and vague 
term, affinity, was substituted for a word which im- 
plied the simple expression of a fact 

«• The greatness of the reputation (rf* Newton, at 
this period, rendered his own countrymen almost 
indifieient to his claims in chemical philosophy. In 

* Newton's Works^ 4to. v(^. iv. p. S4S. 



234 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

the abundance of the rich stores which he afTorded 
to science, such a small contribution was hardly 
missed. The controversy concerning the invention 
of fluxions was of a higher character ; and the lustre 
of his mathematical philosophy, in some measure^ 
threw his chemical discoveries into shade. But jus- 
tice is the first principle of philosophical history. It 
is not with the vain idea of adding to the reputation 
of Newton, that I make these statements ; not from 
the unworthy motive of expressing feelings of na^ 
tionality ; but for the sake of following truth, and of 
attributing glory where glory is justly due.** 

In a lecture of 1811, is the following passage re- 
lative to elementaiy matter, which cannot be too 
strongly impressed on the mind of the young 
chemist. Speaking of the elements of the elder 
chemists, of their sulphur, oil, and salt, he re- 
marks : — 

" These ideas are equally unpoetical and unphilo- 
sophical ; the productions of rude minds directed to 
coarse operations, and guided neither by refined ob- 
servation, nor taste." 

" In modern chemical philosophy (he continues) 
all views of known ultimate indestructible elements 
are discarded. Those forms of matter which have 
not yet been changed by art are considered as unde" 
compounded^ but this is merely with respect to the 
present state of knowledge. The experimental 
philosopher does not consider those substances 
which are elementary to him as necessarily ele- 
mentary in the great operations of the universe. 
He merely follows nature in the path of experiment. 
The number of principles not decompounded is 
consequently in a state of change. Till very lately. 



sill HUMPHRY DAVY. 235 

the earths, the alkalies, and certain acids, were con- 
sidered as elements ; but all these it has been my 
good fortune to decompose. The arrangements of 
the science change with every new acquisition of 
facts, and approximations only are made to truth.'' 

The next extract is from a lecture of the same 
year ; it occurs after an account of Mr. Cavendish's 
hypothesis of combustible bodies being compounds 
containing hydrogen, and combustion a union of 
oxygen with the hydrogen of the burning bodies : — 

" The odium connected with the word phlogiston 
was a just one. It was sometimes regarded light, 
sometimes ether, sometimes heat, sometimes weighty, 
and at other times imponderable. If the tlieory of 
combustion had been discussed as the theory of 
combination of oxygen and hydrogen, or oxygen and 
combustible bodies, some premature generalisations 
might have been avoided. The great glory of La- 
voisier was that of introducing a strict logic into 
chemistry : but the logic of Cavendish was equally 
refined. The French philosopher was confident of 
the truth of his generalisations. The English philo- 
sopher permitted himself to doubt His sagacious 
genius led him to conceive, what we are every day find- 
ing to be the case, that modern chemistry is in a 
state of infancy ; that we are little acquainted with 
the real nature of the elements ; and that our theories 
are merely temporary arrangements, the great merit 
of which is that they connect established facts to- 
gether, and direct us in the research after new facts." 

The next extract is from a lecture of 1810, and 
consists chiefly of rough notes for lecturing from ; 
they appear to me deserving of insertion in this place, 
not only on account of the impressive manner of 



236 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

teaching they display ; but, also, as showing his latest 
views of the nature of heat, which have often been 
misinterpreted, and how readily he gave up an 
hypothesis, however brilliant, when no longer con- 
sistent with facts. 

Having shown, by means of the great battery of 
2000 plates, the fusion of the most refractory metals, 
he remarks : — 

" These experiments, as well as those which I 
have before exhibited, do away the opinion, which 
many able writers have supported, of a cold fusion by 
electricity; a notion which has been lately revived 
by M. BenthoUet. It cannot be said that the elec- 
tricity merely increases the oxydability of the metals, 
and thus produces their combustion ; for the pheno- 
menon takes place, with even more energy, in vacuo 
if platina wire be used.'' 

Having shown this experiment of intense ignition 
of platina wire in a vacuum, he made the following 
commentaries on it On this fire, where there was *• no 
atmosphere, and a perfect insulation," he says: — 

" The fact is the strongest one that I am acquainted 
with, against the notion of heat being a peculiar 
subtle Jkud^ which cannot appear, unless given off 
from some combustible. The air cannot give it, for 
there is none. Let it be said to be composed of the 
two electricities ; i. e. let them be regarded as differ- 
ent subtle fluids ; but, in this case, cold ought to be 
produced in some part of the system. I once had 
this idea. It satisfies the imagination, but not the 
reason. If we suppose 07ie Jltdd^ and this fluid 
carries heat with it, whence can its heat be derived ? 
If we conceive it to be heat or light, why should it 
be resolved into heat or light the moment that it is 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 237 

strongly attracted by matter ? Let the heai be said 
to be pressed out from the metal; but then there 
must be an equilibrium. No theory is consistent but 
that of heat being matter in a state of motion ; and 
of electrical charge being successions of attractions 
and repulsions, producing these motions. But, it is 
said, there mttst be matter ; true : but the question is, 
whether this is specific? whether different kinds of 
matter, when projected into free space, may not be- 
come heat ? The notion argued against is one simple, 
specific, indestructible Jluid of heat. There are a 
great variety of gases : suppose the particles of hy- 
drogen could be made to pass through free space; 
they would, perhaps, be fieat^ suppose t^em to expand 
as much. 

** The particles producing terrestrial heat seem 
different from those producing solar heat : so of light. 

** Vulgar idea — like that of the peasant, every thing 
done by a spring ; so every thing must be done by a 
fluid. The ether was the ancient fluid ; then there 
was a phlogistic fluid: we have had the magnetic 
fluid, the vitreous fluid, the resinous fluid ; and within 
the last few years there has been a fluid of ^02^6?; 
and, in a book, which I lately received from France^ 
published by M. Azais, all the phenomena of nature 
are explained by a gravic fluid. 

&lt;^ But it is said that nothing but matter can pass 
through bodies^ and that therefore there must be some 
fluid concerned, — a strong argument in the perfor- 
ation of a card, by the discharge of an electric battery, 
exhibiting a burr on both sides ; but if something ab- 
solutely passed through, the burr could only be on one 
side» unless there are two fluids created in the middle 
of the paper, one of which passes one way, and the 



238 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

other another way. On the idea which I have ven- 
tured to form, both the interior and the exterior of 
the paper are violently attracted, and will be sepa- 
rated ; one towards the positive side of the jar, the 
other towards the negative." 

The following extract from a lecture on oxygen 
for 1811, exhibits a good instance of the original 
views by which he fixed the attention of the philoso- 
phical part of his audience : — 

" The whole series of discussions that have been 
brought forward prove that oxygen is a body very 
prone to enter into combination, and with great 
energy, and usually produces light, and always heat. 
The compounds that it forms differ according to the 
nature of the body with which it combines. Thus, 
with hydrogen, it forms a neutral compound ; with 
sulphur, a strong acid ; with potassium, a corroding 
alkali ; with iron, an insoluble tasteless body ; and with 
certain metals, it forms earths. Oxygen^ therefore, 
or the producer of acid^ is a very improper name for 
it ; for there are very powerful acids which do not 
contain it, and it exists in the most energetic al- 
kalies. It might be called, with more propriety, 
hydrogen, the producer of water ; or alkaligen, or 
geogen \ but all these names are equally exception- 
able. At present, it is better to continue the name 
of oxygen, and to wait for a more mature period of 
the science for the reform of the nomenclature." 

I shall give only one extract more from his chemi- 
cal lectures ; from the seventh lecture of the course 
for 1809, in which he demonstrated, for the first time 
publicly, the decomposition of boracic acid. After 
having given a detail of the experiments which he 
had made to endeavour to decompose muriatic acid. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 239 

OD the old hypothesis^ of its consisting of a base 
and oxygen — experiments which, he said, had occu- 
pied a considerable portion of his time and attention 
during the preceding twelve months, without en- 
abUng him to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion 
respecting the nature of the acid, he proceeds : — 

" The boracic acid, the substance I am now about 
to mention, has proved much less refractory, and has 
afforded satisfactory evidences both of decomposition 
and of composition, giving results as pure as those ob« 
tained by the analysis and synthesis of carbonic acid. 

" Boracic acid, how obtained. Properties. 

" Myjirst Experiments — Voltaic. 

" Later ones. 

" Potassium. 

** Substance obtained. 

*' Combustion in a glass tube shown. 

" Boracium. 

" You see this substance in the largest quantity in 
which I have procured it ; and you are the first per- 
sons in this island who have witnessed this novel cre- 
ation of experimental science. 

" Combustion in oxygene gas. 
(" Quere, in oxymuriatic acid?) 

" When this new substance, boracium, is better 
known, it will, I doubt not, be employed towards 
purposes of utility ; but it is not during the infancy 
ot a discovery that its relations to the useful arts 
occur. The first object of experiment is to discover 
truths ; the second, to apply them to the purposes of 
life ; and^c/5, that extend the boundary of know- 



24&lt;0 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

ledge, cannot but be beneficial in their immediate as 
well as remote tendencies, and are, I trust, always 
dignified objects of pursuit'* 

From his Geological Lectures, I am tempted to 
make a few extracts. The subject of them, gene- 
rally, was well fitted to the powers of his mind ; and 
to display how, in his researches, his imagination, 
after its first wild flight in youth, was ever after 
under the controul of judgment, even when most 
active ; and how he made speculation always subser- 
vient to observation and experiment. 

The first extract I shall give relates to the mys- 
tery of the origin of the primary rocks : it is from 
the course which he delivered in 1811. The remarks 
arose in considering the hypothesis of Dr. Hutton : — 

" The hypothesis of Dr. Hutton, like that of 
Werner and of Kirwan, has been principally founded 
upon conjectures ; for, as yet, there are no positive 
proofs that the principal materials of our globe are 
either soluble in water, or capable of being fused by 
fire, and deposited in regular forms in consequence 
of cooling. The masterly experiments of Sir James 
Hall have, indeed, shown that basalt, rendered fluid 
in our fiimaces, may be crystalUsed by a slow di- 
minution of temperature ; and that limestone may be 
fused under great pressure, without losing any of the 
elastic fluid with which it is combined. But no 
strong analogies can be applied from these most in- 
teresting facts to granite, to the regularly formed 
gems, or to any of the perfectly aggregated rocks 
containing no organic remains. The general theory 
is almost as obscure as before. The early operations 
of nature are unknown ; and the laws of the form- * 
ation of the habitable globe are still almost as little 



SIS HUMPHRY DAVY. 241 

understood as those of the production of the general 
planetary system — of the sun, and of the fixed stars. 
We are informed by Clemens Alexandrinus, that the 
Egyptian priests made a statue of the god Serapis, in 
which they blended together all the known metals*^ 
and all the soils commonly found in Egypt; and 
this statue has been suj^osed to represent the pri* 
mordial state of things. A useful lesson, at least, 
may be derived from the narrative. No person un« 
instructed in the history, supposing the image now 
existing, would be able to reason from the^rm con- 
cerning the materials ; and no person, from viewing 
the materials, would be able to develope the means by 
which they mingled, or the end for which they were 
designed. The powers of man are scanty and de- 
finite ; even the origin of certain and well-known 
human productions, have hitherto baffled all his 
inquiry. He is unable, satisfactorily, to explain 
the erection of the pyramids of Egypt, or of the 
Druidical pillars of Stonehenge ; and yet he is suf&gt; 
ficiently daring to endeavour to apply his mind to 
the grand operations which have been produced by 
Divine intelligence ; to attempt to explain the changes 
that have taken place beneath the foundations of the 
earth ; to examine the great laws of the creation of 
the systems of the universe, and to reason concern- 
ing their origin in that infinite space which he is 
wholly unable to penetrate, and even accurately to 
imagme." 

The next extract contains his reflections preliminary 
to entering on the consideration of the origin of the se- 
condary rocks. They are also from his second course 
of lectures : — 

^^ In considering the secondary strata, filled with or« 

VOI4. I. R 



34S MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

ganic remains, and containing the vestiges of many 
beings analogous to living generations, it is scarcely 
possible to avoid speculation ; and even the most 
cool and sober understanding is almost irresistibly 
led to form ideas concerning the state of things ex- 
isting at their origin, and concerning the powerful 
material agents subservient to those great natural 
events, the occurrence of which is demonstrated by 
their arrangement and wonderful appearances. The 
subject is one of high interest, but it ought to be pur- 
sued with considerable caution. Men possessing 
very brilliant talents have differed essentially upon 
it } hypotheses have been multiplied with regard to 
it ; and much ingenuity and labour have been em&lt;- 
ployed upon the discussion. 

** In accounting for the present order of things, 
we are enabled constantly to appeal to the senses, to 
combine observation and experiment ; but, in attempt- 
ing to explain the past change in nature, if we are in 
possession of no distinct history, analogy is our only 
guide. Inferences must be made from known facts 
concerning the unknown ; and the mind, if unable to 
obtain certainty, must rest satisfied with strong pro- 
bability. None of the facts concerning the formation 
of the secondary rocks can be immediately known ; 
all our reasonings upon them must be inductive ; 
they must be founded upon the knowledge of the 
properties of the substances that compose the strata, 
and of the agents by which these substances are ca- 
pable of being modified. And where causes can be 
plausibly developed, it must be from the examine* 
ation of existing operations, that produce appearances 
similar to those which are the objects of inquiry.** 

As an example of this kind of investigation which 



SIR HUMPHEY DAVY. 243 

he proposed, I shall give his remarks on the formation 
of coal : — 

*' On the subject of the origin of coal (he says), 
there have been various opimons ; but the vegetable 
and animal impressions it contains, as I mentioned in 
the last lecture, ought to lead, with much minute 
discussion, to the theory of its production. Where 
wood has been buried in the eartii in late times, from 
the action of water and of air, it always undergoes a 
change, which brings it to a state similar to that of 
pit coaL At Bovey, in Devonshire, a whole forest is 
found buried under different strata of clay and 
gravel; and the trees, though carbonaceous, and 
black, have their ligneous form, and contain a sub- 
stance apparently intermediate between bitumen and 
resin, as has been shown by Mr. Hatchett A similar 
species of coal is found in Sussex, and in Iceland, 
where it is called Surtabrand, and the pieces appear 
flattened from the pressure of the superincumbent 
mass, during the time of the conversion of the wood 
into coaly matter. 

^* Vegetable and animal substances may, however, 
likewise be converted into a body resembling pit coal, 
by heat under pressure. Sir James Hall has shown 
this, making use of the same means as those em- 
ployed in his experiments upon limestone. He has 
proved that, by a strong heat, applied to different 
animal matters, and different species of wood, in 
close vessels, a substance is produced, black and 
glosay, and having properties different from those of 
commcm charcoal, as it bums with a dense flame, 
giving out volatile matter. Sir James has adduced 
his experiments as proof of the Huttonian theory 
of the igneous origin . of pit co&amp;d. His arguments 

B 2 



'244f MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

are, in the highest degree, ingenious ; and, if the 
insulated facts only were to be considered, very 
forcible and convincing. But, when the usual strata 
above and below coal are examined, it is scarcely 
possible for the impartial observer to suppose that 
they had been subjected to heat. They are princi- 
pally loose sandstone and loose schist, bearing every 
mark of having been deposited from a state of 
mechanical suspension in water. The agency of 
water, and the natural process of decomposition, to 
which all organised matter is liable, — this seems 
folly adequate to explain the appearances of the 
coal strata. Vegetable matter, in its first state of 
X!hange, appears as peat ; in another and more ad- 
vanced state, it is the same substance as Bovey coal ; 
and when the bitumen is completely formed, it is the 
true fossil coal, in which the ligneous texture is 
sometimes evident, and sometimes destroyed. In a 
quarry near Glasgow, vegetable matter is found in 
almost all its different states of conversion. Near the 
surface, it is but little decomposed ; and here it oc- 
curs in a very imperfect sandstone, apparently of late 
formation. In a lower stratum, about ten feet below, 
it has the appearance of wood slightly chaiTed ; and, 
in the compact and white sandstone, which is used for 
building, it occurs converted into bituminous coal.*' 

I shall conclude these extracts with his observations 
on the formation of the secondary strata, and his re^ 
marks on the use of hypothesis. The view of the 
formation of this class of rocks which he then took 
was different from that which he preferred some years 
later, described in his posthumous work, &lt;* Conso- 
ktions in Travel,^* as was quite in accordance with 
bis ideas of the proper mode of employing h3^a. 
thesis : — 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 245 

" Concerning their general arrangement, and the 
revolutions in nature connected with it, I have as 
yet offered no supposition ; but this part of the sub- 
ject necessarily follows in the order of discussion. 
All the appearances, all the different facts, show, in 
the most decided manner, that the various strata 
filled with organic remains were covered by the sea 
at the time of their production. This is the ancient 
theory, which will not be disputed, though many 
modifications of it may be formed ; and various argu- 
ments must be stated, before it can be decided 
whether the strata were formed by slow operations 
or by rapid changes ; whether they were the work of 
days or of ages ; and whether the present land was 
anciently the bed of the ocean, or whether the se- 
condary rocks were formed upon it by a great influx 
of waters. 

'&lt; There are no distinct appearances which demon- 
strate a very slow and gradual deposition of the se- 
condary strata ; but there are very many which show, 
at least in some cases, the effect of their formation 
must have been sudden and rapid. Fishes, the or- 
ganised matter of which so easily consumes, have 
left their impressions imbedded in the hardest rocks ; 
and these impressions often exhibit the perfect and 
unaltered form. Other marine animals, likewise, of a 
still more delicate organisation, exhibit vestiges of 
their remains in an undecompounded substance* The 
various appearances would seem to indicate that 
these different beings had been suddenly destroyed 
in the strata that contain them. The various remains 
of the land animals found in sandstone alternating 
with shell limestone offer another indication of the 
waters having covered the place of their abode ; and 

R 3 



246 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

that these waters flowed in upon a great extent of 
country, and rushed over the surface with consider* 
able force, seems evident, from the transportation of 
the remains of the animals, which are now only found 
within the tropics, toward the poles. The bones 
of the rhinoceros, and of the elephant, have been 
found in Siberia ; the tusks of the elephant, and the 
bones of the crocodile, have been discovered in this 
country. Astronomical deductions seem to show that 
these appearances cannot result from a change of 
climate, arising from a change of the inclination of 
the axis of the earth. And when all the evidences 
are examined, and all the various oppositions and 
agreements of facts discussed, there seems to be no 
period to which the production and arrangement 
of the secondary rocks can be so well referred, as to 
that of the great inundation of the waters upon the 
land, recorded both in sacred and profane history, 
and of which so many testimonies are preserved in 
nature, and of which so many traditions have been 
brought down from the elder nations, and from the 
most remote times. We perceive the effects of this 
great catastrophe, but the immediate material cause of 
it can never be distinctly developed. The hypothesis 
of Leibnitz, extended by Whiston, that it was pro« 
duced by the attraction of a comet upon the waters 
of the ocean, is, perhaps, the most plausible that has 
been advanced; and, when taken with limitation, 
the most adequate to the explanation of the phe- 
nomena. Supposing that a large comet approached 
near to the earth, having a power of sittraction suf- 
ficient to raise the tides to the utmost height of our 
mountains ; and supposing, likewise, th^t it was on 
its return from the sun, and capable of communi- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 247 

cs^ing beat to the water, its influence, there is great 
reason to believe, would be fully adequate to produce 
the various effects that have been discerned, and to 
occasion those great and diversified changes exhi« 
bited by the secondary surface of the globe. Assum* 
ing an elevation of temperature of only 180°, where 
the ocean was elevated into the tides, which, in itself 
would not be destructive to life, there is great reason 
to suppose that the solvent agency of the watet* 
would be sufficiently increased to enable it to com-* 
bine with the different earths, though the other parts 
of its surface, from its bad conducting power, might 
remain comparatively cold. The waters of the ocean 
in rushing over the different parts of the land would 
necessarily carry with them their living inhabitants, 
and many of the substances forming their bed* Where 
forests were overwhelmed, layers of coal would be 
produced; where calcareous soils were torn up^ 
strata of chalk would be formed; and the sand from the 
shores, and from the depths of the sea, deposited at 
the same time with dissolved earthy matter, would 
produce the varied cemented stones and breccias. 
The general effect of the action of the sea would 
be increased by the rapid evaporation at the point of 
attraction, and from the deposition of torrents of 
water in the more remote parts. In the great series 
of changes, rocks that had been covered by the sea 
would be laid bare ; many high lands would neces- 
sarily be broken down, and levelled into plains ; the 
forms of mountains would be changed ; and the pro- 
ductioDB of one country carried into another by the 
rapid impulse of the waves. 

^&lt; It would be easy to offer still more minute eluci- 
datiopa of the opinions of Leibnitz ; but to multiply 

R 4 



1 



MS MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

imaginary instances is, perhaps, to indulge too much 
in the spirit of speculation. Whatever may be the 
cause assigned for this great event, it must be consi- 
dered as one independent of the common order of 
nature ; for in the usual changes of the sea and land, 
and the agencies to which they are exposed, nothing 
analogous occurs, and it must be referred to some 
power operating in a novel manner in our system* 
As yet we are not perfectly able to explain the exists 
ing economy of things, and our theories of past 
changes must be more incomplete the more these 
changes are remote. Placed, as it were, mere atoms 
upon a point of space, we perceive only a few objects, 
and a few of their relations, and to these we are 
obliged to refer in all our reasonings ; whilst in the 
universal series of occurrences, influences may have 
acted, and may still be acting, of which we have no 
conception: yet, nevertheless, it is proper that we 
should reason from the present concerning the past, 
if we reason with a calm understanding. The strength 
and correctness of the imagination can only be pre- 
served by exercise ; and suppositions, when they are 
made only the amusements of the imagination, are 
rather useful than injurious, for they increase the ac- 
tivity of the mind ; they accustom it to rapid com- 
binations; and they are only dangerous when they are 
insulated from facts, when they are mere distempered 
dreams, or when they are pertinaciously adhered to, 
and opposed to the conviction of truth. The human 
mind, deriving all its ideas from the senses, when in 
a state of healthy exertion, sooner or later uniformly 
refers to facts ; and when hypotheses are used merely 
as instruments for comparing facts and for ascertaining 
Ihqir: minute relations, they promote, in the highest 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. £49 

degree, the eflbrts of inTentive genius, and tend to im«- 
press on the understanding the true and unperverted 
energies of nature." 

These miscellaneous specimens of his lectures will 
enable the reader to form some notion of their style of 
composition, and to account for the very favourable 
manner in which they were received. If I appreciate 
them too highly as literary productions (and it may 
be so from unavoidable bias) ; if their merits should 
be considered by the reader to be overrated, — the con- 
clusion is unavoidable, that the very remarkable im- 
pression which they certainly did produce, and that 
on an enlightened and highly educated, and, I may 
add, refined audience, must have been owing to the 
powers of the lecturer as a public speaker. In further 
illustration, I shall make a few remarks, conveying 
the impression which they have left on my mind, and 
recording the manner in which they were conducted. 
He was always in earnest ; and when he amused mostj 
amusement appeared most foreign to his object His 
great and first object was to instruct, and, in con« 
junction with this, maintain the importance and dig^ 
nity of science ; indeed, the latter, and the kindling 
a taste for scientific pursuits, might rather be con- 
sidered his main object, and the conveying instruction 
a secondary one. His lectures were almost invariably 
written expressly for the occasion, not a repetition 
of lectures ; so that the same audience, year after 
year, might attend, and never be wearied. He com- 
monly wrote his lecture the day before he delivered 
it* On this day he generally dined in his own room^ 
and made a light meal on fish. He was always mas^ 
ter of his subject ; and composed with great rapidity, 
and with a security of his powers never failing him. 



2£0 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Latterly, he trusted a good deal to notes ; and, except^ 
ing on particular occasions, wrote little more than 
the parts which he wished to make most impressive, 
especially the beginning and termination. Itwas almost 
an invariable rule with him, the evening before, to 
rehearse his lecture in the presence of his assistants, 
the preparations having been made and every thing 
in readiness for the experiments ; and this he did, 
not only with a view to the success of the experi- 
ments, and the dexterity of his assistants, but also in 
regard to his own discourse, the effect of which, he 
knew, depended upon the manner in which it was de- 
livered. He used, I remember, at this recital, to 
mark the words which required emphasis, and study 
the effect of intonation ; often repeating a passage two 
or three different times, to witness the difference of 
effect of variations in the voice. His manner was 
perfectly natural, animated, and energetic, but not in 
the least theatrical* In speaking, he never seemed to 
consider himself as an object of attention ; he spoke 
as if devoted to his subject, and as if his audience 
were equally devoted to it, and their interest concen- 
trated in it The impressiveness of his oratory was 
one of its great charms ; in this he consulted only his 
own taste and feelings ; but at the same time, by a 
considerable portion of his auditors, it must have been 
received as a compliment to their own taste and feel- 
ing, and powers of understanding ; and, in giving 
them credit for acquirements, no doubt many flat- 
tered themselves they possessed them, or had a desire 
excited to attain them. His experiments were de*- 
vised on the same principle, not of amusing and 
pleasing, but of illustrating his discourse, and demon- 
strating either important properties of bodies, or prin- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 251 

eiples of the chemical actum of bodies; he took 
great care that they should not appear to have been 
introduced for show, and to excite merely wonder, 
even when most brilliant and wonderful: and his 
eloquence, — ^the declamation, as it might be called by 
some, in which he indulged on the beauty and order 
of nature, in which he ascended from the works to 
the great Artificer, and from the admirable design 
every where apparent to the infinite wisdom of the 
Autborof the universe,^— his eloquence, I believe, on 
these topics was so well received, because it was not 
affected ; merely his own strong impressions and feel- 
ings embodied in words, and delivered with an ear* 
nestness which marked their sincerity. 

This account o£ his style of lecturing is not alto- 
gether accordant with Dr. Paris's sentiments respect- 
ing it, who damns whilst he praises, and blames 
whilst he defends. &lt;&lt; It was urged (Dr. Paris re* 
marks) by several modem Zoili, that the style was far 
too florid and imaginative for communicating the 
plain lessons of truth ; that he described objects of 
natural history by inappropriate imagery ; and that 
violent conceits frequently usurped the place of phi- 
losophical definitions. This was the Beotian criti- 
cism ; the Attic spirits selected other points of attack : 
they rallied him on the ground of affectation, and 
whimsically represented him as swayed by a mawkish 
sensibility, which constantly betrayed him into ab- 
surdity." — " There might be some show of justice 
(Dr. Paris proceeds) in this accusation. The world was 
not large enough to satisfy the vulgar ambition of 
the conqueror; but the minutest production of nature 
affi&gt;rded ample range for the scrutinising intelligence 
of the philosopher, and he would consider a particle 



S5!2 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

of crystal with so delicate a regard for its minute 
beauties^ and expatiate with so tender a tone of in* 
terest on its fair proportions, as almost to convey an 
idea that he bewailed the condition of necessity which 
for ever allotted it so slender a place in the vast 
scheme of creation/' * 

If such had been my brother's style of lecturing, 
well might it have been condemned : but I deny it 
in toto. Nothing could be more different than hh 
style and this imagined by Dr. Paris. Had it been 
such, who would have had patience with it, — who, 
but Dr. Paris, could have defended it ? Such affect- 
ations and puerilities were my brother's utter de- 
testation. Dr. Paris has compared him with Michael 
Angelo ; such criticism would have been just as ap- 
plicable to Michael Angelo. It was the grand, the 
striking, the truly poetical, that he delighted in, and 
delighted to represent, — what impressed him strongly, 
and which, without affectation, he could express 
strongly, desirous of exciting a worthy interest in the 
minds of his audience, as I have already mentioned. 
The specimens I have given of his lectures will, I 
believe, bear me out in this statement; and I challenge 
the production of a single passage, from any lecture 
of his, answering to faults alleged by Dr. Paris's 
" Attic spirits." 



• Dr. Paris's '' Life/' &amp;c. p. 92. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 253 



CHAPTER IV. 

JLABOBATOBT OF TBB BOYAL INBTITUTIOX. — HIS MANNER OF EXPEIU'&gt; 

MENTINO. HI8 NOTICE OF DR. WOLLASTON. HIS WAY OF LIVING. 

ANGLING RELAXATION. EXTRACT FROM SALMONIA. RECOLLECTIONS 

OF HIM. VISITS HIS FRIENDS IN CORNWALL. EXCURSION INTO WALES. 

ZfOTICE OF OTHER EXCURSIONS. ANECDOTE OF HIM, GIVEN BY LADY 

BROWNRIGO. — RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTS. — EXTRACTS FROM HIS JOUBNAIt 
OF A TOUR IN IBELAND.*— PABTS OF LETTEBS OF HIS BELATING TO 
IBELAND. EXTBAOTS FBOM HIS UNFINISHED SKETCHES OF THE GEO- 
LOGY AND MINEBALOGY OF COBNWALL. SPECIMENS OF HIS POETBY. 

One of the principal motives which induced my 
brother to quit Bristol was the ampler scope he ex* 
pected to have in the laboratory of the new institution 
for indulging his passion (for so his love may be 
■called) for research. This was part of the agreement 
between him and Count Rumford, as is mentioned 
by my brother in a letter to Mr. Gilbert, published 
in Dr. Paris's work, in which he says, " The sole and 
uncontrolled use of the apparatus of the Institution 
for private experiments *' was to be granted to him^ 
with the promise of " any apparatus he might need 
for new experiments.** And I find from his note 
books, that a few days after his arrival he resumed 
an experimental inquiry on galvanism, which, some 
months previously, he had commenced at Clifton. 

The laboratory of the Institution I shall briefly 
sketch, such as I remember it when I first became its 
inmate, in the winter of 1808, when experimental re- 
searches were carried on within its walls with a zeal 
that it would be difficult to surpass, and were re* 



9S4f MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

warded with discoveries of more than ordinary bril- 
liancy. The room was spacious, well ventilated, and 
well lighted from above, and well supplied with 
water. It was divided into two compartments, nearly 
of equal dimensions ; one the laboratory proper, the 
other provided with rows of seats to be used as a 
theatre for the accommodation of the students of 
practical chemistry. The apparatus most conspicuous 
and most in use were, a sand bath, for chemical pur- 
poses, and for heating the room; a powerful blast 
furnace ; a moveable iron forge, with a double 
bellows ; a blow-pipe apparatus, attached to a table, 
with double bellows underneath ; a large mercurial 
trough, and two or three water pneumatic troughs, 
and various galvanic troughs ; not to mention gaso- 
meters, filtering stands, and the common necessaries 
of a laboratory of glass or earthen ware, &amp;c. ; and not 
to mention the delicate instruments liable to be in- 
jured by acid fumes, which were commonly kept in an- 
other room, as air-pumps, balances, &amp;c. In brief^ in 
regard to its equipment and appearance, it was alto^ 
gether a working laboratory, designed for research : 
there was no finery in it, or fitting up for display ; 
nothing to attract vulgar admiration ; no arrangement 
of apparatus in orderly disposition for lectures, and 
scarcely any apparatus solely intended for this pur- 
pose. It was, indeed, an almost constant scene of 
laborious research.; and the preparation for the 
weekly lecture, or lectures, was considered not the 
most important matter, but rather as an interruption 
to the ordinary course of experimental investigation^ 
In the laboratory, where my brother spent a great 
portion of every day that be was in town and at 
leisure, he was unremittingly engaged in original 



SiR HUMPHRY DAVT. 253 

experiments ; and even in his absence the operations 
were not suspended : they were continued by his 
assistants^ according to the directions which he had 
given ; and when he returned, he finished the expe- 
riment or examined the results. Nothing was left to 
memory ; an entry was made in a large book, kept 
for the purpose, of all that occurred, written either 
by himself, or by an assistant from his dictation ; not, 
indeed, in minute detail, for that would have occu- 
pied too much time, but briefly, for aiding the 
memory, and minutely only in regard to weight and 
measure, and what was most important and charac- 
teristic. In his inquiries there was never any mystery 
or concealment, but the most perfect openness. The 
register of experiments was left open ; he received 
his friends in the laboratory, and conversed with 
them on the objects of inquiry in progress; and 
however intensely engaged, he was always accessible. 
I can never forget his manner when occupied in his 
favourite pursuit ; his zeal amounted to enthusiasm, 
which he more or less imparted to those around him. 
With cheerful voice and countenance, and a hand as 
ready to manipulate as his mind was quick to con- 
trive, he was indefatigable in his exertions. He was 
delighted with success, but not discouraged by failure ; 
and he bore failures and accidents in experiments 
with a patience and forbearance, even when owing to 
the awkwardness of assistants, which could hardly 
have been expected from a person of his ardent tem- 
perament. And his boldness in experimenting was 
very remarkable : in the operations of the laboratory 
danger was very much forgotten, and exposure to 
danger was an every-day occurrence. Considering 
the risks run, and the few, if any, precautions taken 



S56 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

jigainst accidents, it is surprising how small a number 
of injuries were received. The only two serious 
wounds that I recollect he sustained, were in the 
hand and eye ; the one, from receiving on his hand a 
quantity of melted potash ; the other, from an ex- 
plosion of a detonating compound. Had his consti« 
tution been bad, the use both of hand and eye would 
probably have been impaired ; indeed, the eye ever 
after retained the mark of the wound inflicted on the 
transparent cornea, and never perfectly recovered its 
strength. 

Here I must not allow to pass, without comment, 
some remarks which Dr. Paris makes relative to my 
brother's manner of conducting his experimental re- 
searches. Dr. Paris's words are : — 

" It was his habit in the laboratory to carry on 
several unconnected experiments at the same time, 
and he would pass from the one to the other without 
any obvious design or order : upon these occasions 
he was perfectly reckless of his apparatus ; breaking 
or destroying a part, in order to meet some want of 
the moment. So rapid were all his movements, that, 
while a spectator imagined he was merely making 
preparations for an experiment, he was actually ob- 
taining the results, which were just as accurate as if 
a much longer time had been expended. With 
Davy rapidity was power." • 

This is a passage for effect, preparatory to a com- 
parison of Dr. WoUaston's and my brother's manner 
of experimenting, and I have no hesitation in saying 
that it is very inaccurate. It was not his habit to 
engage in unconnected experiments ; on the contrary, 

♦ Dr. Paris's " Life," &amp;c., p. 96. 



SIR HUMPHUY DAVY. 257 

he most frequently directed his attention ^iiid con- 
centrated his powers on one object. Every experi- . 
ment was undertaken with a certain design ; and if 
there wei'e several carried on at once, tliey belonged 
to one series. To an ignorant spectator, indeed, 
they might appear to be without order and design, 
as any series of experiments necessarily must appear 
to those who are unacquainted with chemical science, 
or even to those to whom the plan and design of 
the research has not been developed. His reck- 
lessness of apparatus is not justly represented. His 
manner might sometimes appear reckless to an igno- 
rant person, especially in certain inquiries, in which 
substances were made to act on gases in retorts, and 
when to examine the results it was often necessary to 
break the containing vessel. It is true that he had 
no hesitation in applying an apparatus to various 
purposes, for which, perhaps, it was not originally 
intended, and in making it as useful as possible. For 
apparatus, independent of utility, he had no respect 
nor regard. He considered them merely as instru- 
ments to be subservient to his designs, and to accom- 
plish his purposes. He was rapid in execution, 
because his mind was active, and in this mental ac- 
tivity his power consisted. 

Of Dr. Paris's comparison of Dr. Wollaston and 
my brother little need be said. It is a manner of 
writing which is dangerous, too often indulged in for 
effect, and tempting exaggeration. Contrasting the 
two. Dr. Paris remarks, " Every process of the former 
was regulated with the most scrupulous regard to 
microscopic accuracy, and conducted with the ut- 
most neatness of detail. It has been already stated," 
he continues, " with what turbulence and apparent 

VOL. I. s 



g58 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

confusion the experiments of the latter were con- 
ducted ; and yet each was equally excellent in his style, 
and, as artists, they have not unaptly been compared 
to Teniers and Michael Angelo." * I may remark, 
that when very great care and minuteness were neces- 
sary, they were observed by my brother ; and when 
not observed, it was, I believe, because he did not 
think they were required. He was no more a 
slave to manner of experimenting than he was to 
the apparatus he used. Were it necessary, I might 
mention many instances of minute research, re- 
quiring great delicacy and accuracy of manipula- 
tion, in which he engaged ; as his various galvanic 
experiments, especially those contained in his first 
Bakerian Lecture, in which he arrived at very 
important conclusions, and refuted many errors by 
scrupulous accuracy of experimenting, and attention 
to the most minute circumstances ; as the whole of the 
experiments contained in his second Bakerian Lec- 
ture on the metallic bases of the fixed alkalies, in 
which, operating on portions not exceeding in bulk 

* Dr. Paris, p. 97- 

It may be acceptable to the reader to have my brother's own view 
of the character of this ^^ illustrious philosopher," as he designates Dr. 
Wollaston, in a note to Salmonia, written after his friend's decease^ 
when describing how ^^he applied his pre-eminent acuteness, his science, 
and his philosophy, to aid the resources and exalt the pleasures of the 
amusement of angling." 

'^ Wollaston may be compared to Dalton for originality of riew, and 
was far his superior in accuracy. He was an admirable manipidator^ 
steady, cautious, and sure ; his judgment was cool ; his riews saga- 
cious ; his inductions made with care, slowly formed, and seldom re- 
nounced. He had much of the same spirit of philosophy as Cavendish ; 
but, unlike Cavendish, he applied science to purposes of profit, and for 
many years sold manufactured platinum. He died very rich. Some 
accidental annoyances in the medical profession made him, I thii^V^ 
jealous and reserved in the earlier part of his Hfe ; but latterly he 'be- 
came far more agreeable and confiding, and was a warm and kind 
friend, and a pleasant social companion.'* — MS. Sketches of Contetn^ 
poraries. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 259 

pins' heads, he determined, with extraordinary accu- 
racy, the most important properties of these new 
substances, and the proportions in which they en- 
tered into combination ; and further, I might mention 
that difficult and refined inquiry which he carried 
on with extraordinary patience and minuteness and 
care, in 1809 and 1810, relative to the apparent 
metallisation of ammonia, and its absorption by po- 
tassium. He himself, in the character which he gives 
in his " Consolations in Travel" of the chemical 
philosopher, places prominently amongst his qualities 
** patience, industry, and neatness in manipulation ; 
and accuracy and minuteness in observing and regis- 
tering the phenomena which occur," qualities which, 
he says, are essentia) • When my brother travelled 
on the Continent, what was his apparatus ? It was 
on a minute scale, almost as minute as Dr. WoUas- 
ton's. In the work last mentioned he remarks, " All 
the implements absolutely necessary may be carried 
in a small trunk." Dr. Paris seems to delight in 
paradoxes. Whilst he calls my brother's manner of 
manipulating apparently careless and slovenly in the 
laboratory, he says his style of experimenting in the 
theatre was ** elegant," and that it was *' perhaps im- 
possible to imagine a greater contrast," which he en- 
deavours to explain by observing, that " in one case 
he was communicating knowledge, and in the other 
obtaining it;" a reason forcible and just, were the con- 
ditions changed, inasmuch as to obtain knowledge by 
experimental investigation a much greater degree of 
accuracy and minuteness is necessary than for the 
purpose of communicating this knowledge when once 
obtained. Appearances in these things are most de- 
ceptive: in the theatre experiments are made for 

s S 



S60 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

illustration, and are generally of a simple kind, and 
easily comprehended, and the minds of the audience 
are prepared by the lecturer to follow and under- 
stand them. In the laboratory, on the contrary, 
this aid is wanting when most necessary; and, in 
consequence, operations, as already observed, of a 
very accurate kind, and carried on with a perfect 
design, may appear confused to the uninstructed, or 
to the uninitiated. 

Of my brother's mode of living, and of some of 
his habits whilst he was at the Royal Institution, I 
shall also speak from my own knowledge. As long 
as he was a bachelor, he was perfectly satisfied with 
his rooms at the Institution, in which he considered 
chiefly utility, and thought little of comfort, and 
much less of luxury. He showed great carelessness 
in all that related to their furniture and appearance. 
Th,ese were to him matter of indifference. I be- 
lieve the furniture was merely what belonged to them 
when he first took possession, and that he made no 
addition to them or alteration. The only thing or- 
namental that I recollect in his sitting-room was an 
elegant little porcelain Venus, which was a present 
to him from his early friend Mr. Wedgewood ; it 
was of his manufacture, and an admirable specimen 
of art. Letters and papers he very seldom arranged, 
and his rooms were commonly littered with them. 
Occasionally they were collected and thrown to- 
gether in a large cupboard. I remember once his 
commissioning me to look over this great collection, 
and to burn such as appeared of no interest. Amongst 
them were very many letters of the highest compli- 
ment, and some of kind advice from anonymous 
writers, or declared friends, pointing out, on his 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 261 

commencing lecturing at the Institution, what was 
considered faulty in his manner, and even in his 
pronunciation ; but they were most commonly of 
a laudatory kind; and of this kind were several 
copies of verses, written in female hands, show- 
ing that he had excited no ordinary interest in 
their breasts, and that their admiration was of a 
very exalted kind. Yet all the praise that was 
bestowed, all the delicious flattery which he re- 
ceived, and which might have spoilt the best dis- 
position, and seduced from the path of exertion to 
luxurious repose, or dissipation in the circles of 
fashion, seemed to have been either wasted on his mind, 
and to have made no impression, or to have acted as 
a spur to continued exertion ; and he never laboured 
harder, or exerted himself more successfully, than at 
the time he received most court, and apparently in- 
dulged most in the pleasures of luxurious society. 

In the disposal of his time, he was far from sys- 
tematic, directed rather by circumstances than guided 
by any precise rules. When in town, he generally 
entered the laboratory after breakfast, about ten or 
eleven o'clock, and, if uninterrupted, remained there 
till three or four. Dr. Paris, in describing the man- 
ner in which he was occupied, indulges in some 
exaggeration, stating how he worked in the labora- 
tory till his dinner hour was past ; how he returned 
to his labours in the evening, and commonly con- 
tinued at them till three or four o'clock in the morn- 
ing, and yet was risen not unfrequently before the 
servants. According to Dr. Paris's statement, " The 
greatest of all his wants was time, and the expedients 
by Mrhich he economised it often placed him in very 
ridiculous situations, and gave rise to habits of a most 

s 3 



262 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

eccentric description. Driven to an extremity, he 
would in haste put on fresh linen without removing 
that which was underneath ; and, singular as the fact 
may appear, he has been known, after the fashion of 
the grave-digger in Hamlet, to wear no less thaa 
five shirts and as many pair of stockings at the 
same time. Exclamations of surprise very frequently 
escaped from his friends at the rapid manner in 
which he increased and declined in corpulence/'* 
In this description there is much exaggeration, 
either in consequence of erroneous information, or 
from writing for effect. Instead of returning to the 
laboratory after dinner, and working there till a late 
hour, and resuming his labours after three or four 
hours' sleep, it was very unusual for my brother to 
revisit it after he had dressed for dinner, and before 
breakfast I do not believe he ever entered its 
precincts. He was never, to the best of my know- 
ledge, in the habit of abridging greatly his hours of 
rest, which were commonly seven or eight The 
particulars respecting his linen and toilet for dinner 
are too minute to be correct. The account of his 
wearing five shirts put on successively for want of 
time to make a change, was founded, perhaps, on 
his habit of wearing two shirts for the sake of warmth 
in cold weather ; a custom which, as long as I knew 
him, he indulged in. Fashion in dress and appear- 
ance was of trifling consideration to him ; he con- 
sulted rather ease and convenience. 

His way of living during this period was of the 
most easy kind. Except when preparing a lecture, 
as already mentioned, he seldom dined in his apart- 
ments at the Institution : his invitations to dinner 

• Life, p. 184. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 203 

amongst his friends were so numerous that he was, 
or might have been, constantly engaged ; and after 
dinner he was much in the habit of attending even- 
ing parties, devoting the evening to amusement ; so 
that, to the mere frequenters of such parties, he 
must have appeared a votary of fashion rather than 
of science. When his pursuits did not keep him in 
town, he often made short visits to friends residing 
in the neighbourhood of London, or went to some 
trout stream, of which there are so many good ones 
within twenty or thirty miles of the metropolis, and 
breathed the fresh air by the river side, and enjoyed 
the country and his favourite exercise and amuse- 
ment of fishing together.* In his " Salmonia, or 
Days of Fly-fishing," written in illness, during the 
latter part of his life, with what delight does he re- 
call these liver scenes ! Speaking of angling in its 
poetical relations, with genuine poetical feeling, he 
says, " It carries us into the most wild and beautiful 
scenery of nature ; amongst the mountain lakes, and 
the clear and lovely streams that gush from the higher 
ranges of elevated hills, or that make their way 
through the cavities of calcareous strata. How 
delightftd in the early spring, after the dull and 
tedious time of winter, when the frosts disappear, 
and the sunshine warms the earth and waters, to 
wander forth by some clear stream, to see the leaf 
bursting from the purple bud, to scent the odours of 
the bank perftimed by the violet, and enamelled, as 



* If confined in London longer than usoal^ and deprived of his fa- 
Yoorite amusement of anglings he not unfrequendy^ as a relaxation^ 
uroiild turn to his fishing tackle^ and look over his fiy.hook and assort 
the gaudy materials for making files ; and I very well recoUect the 
effect on his mind was always refreshing. 

s 4 



S64&gt; MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

it were, with the primrose and the daisy ; to wander 
upon the fresh turf below the shade of trees, whose 
bright blossoms are filled with the music of the bee, 
and on the surface of the waters to view the gaudy 
flies sparkling like animated gems in the sunbeams, 
whilst the bright and beautiful trout is watching them 
from below ; to hear the twittering of the water-birds, 
who, alarmed at your approach, rapidly hide them- 
selves beneath the flowers and leaves of the water- 
lily ; and, as the season advances, to find all these 
objects changed for others of the same kind, but 
better and brighter, till the swallow and the trout 
contend, as it were, for the gaudy May-fly, and till, 
in pursuing your amusement in the calm and balmy 
evening, you are serenaded by the songs of the 
cheerful thrush and melodious nightingale, perform- 
ing the oflices of paternal love, in thickets ornamented 
with the rose and woodbine." And during the va^ 
cations, when he had some months' leisure, he com- 
monly made longer excursions. At different times he 
explored most parts of Great Britain, including even 
the distant parts of Scotland, and the Hebrides; 
and more than once he travelled through Ireland. 
His object in these journeys, as will appear from a 
journal of one of them, from which I shall have oc- 
casion to make some extracts, was partly amusement 
and the acquiring of general information, and partly 
the study of the geological structure of the kingdom, 
and the phenomena of rock-formations in relation to 
geology as a science, and partly the collecting of 
agricultural knowledge. He made sketches of re- 
markable features of rock-scenery, of peculiarities in 
their appearance ; and he collected specimens of rocks, 
and minerals, and soils, which were deposited on his 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 265 

return in the museum of the Institution, or in its la- 
boratory for examination. When he lectured either 
on the subject of geology or agriculture, he availed 
himself of them, and of paintings made from his 
sketches, which were not less serviceable in illustrating 
his descriptions and doctrines than the specimens of 
rocks and minerals themselves. His power of extract- 
ing information was great, and it was constantly 
employed in these excursions, and I believe gave a 
strong idea of talent and capacity to comparatively 
uninstructed men. I recollect going through a mine, 
when I was a boy, with an intelligent Cornish miner, 
who, two or three years before, had accompanied 
ray brother ; he said, he had never before met with 
a person so inquisitive, and who asked him so many 
searching questions ; and, from the manner in which 
the miner made the remark, he was evidently sur- 
prised as well as pleased at the deep interest he took 
in mining affairs. 

Thus spending his time, admired and highly 
popular as a lecturer, courted in society for his 
genius and agreeable conversation, and in the highest 
estimation as a man of science, with a happy sanguine 
disposition, and a capacity for enjoyment equal to 
his ample means, — he possessed an uncommon degree 
of happiness, a larger proportion than any one has a 
right to expect, and a far greater than the majority 
of mankind ever enjoy. I have, even now, after 
the lapse of five and twenty years, a very pleasing 
and vivid recollection of his cheerful and buoyant 
spirit, as well as of his extraordinary activity and 
energy. When I resided with him at the Institu- 
tion, between 1808 and 1811, my bedroom adjoined 
his, and our beds were only separated by a wainscot 



S66 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

partition. In going to bed, and rising, and sometimes 
in the dead of night, I used to hear him, in a loud 
voice, reciting favourite passages in prose or verse, 
or declaiming some composition of his own, or hum- 
ming some angler's song. 

This, as a general account, may suffice, of this 
period of his life ; I shall now proceed to give some 
details respecting it during the first six years he was 
at the Institution. 

The earliest leisure he could avail himself of, in 
1801, after the conclusion of the session of the 
Royal Institution, he devoted to visiting his friends 
and family in the west of England, first at Clifton, 
and afterwards at Penzance. In this excursion he 
was accompanied by Mr. Underwood, who has fur- 
nished Dr. Paris with some particulars of the tour 
not uninteresting, though not in all respects accurate. 
The inaccurate part is the ludicrous story of the 
offended landlady of the inn at Mullion, given for 
the purpose of displaying my brother's " gastro- 
nomic propensity,'* which, according to Mr. Coulson, 
who was one of the party, is merely a story. The par- 
ticulars which are interesting are those descriptive 
of him giving way to his feelings of love and admir- 
ation of Nature, on revisiting the scenes of his 
youth, and the grand and beautiful features of the 
Mounts Bay, the shores of which they completely 
explored. The next autumn, that of 1802, he 
made an excursion into Derbyshire and Wales ; in 
the latter country accompanied by his friend Mr. 
Purkis, whose account of it, written with a very 
friendly feeling, and in a lively manner, Dn Paris 
has inserted in his work. I shall limit myself to one 
extract from it : — 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 267 

" We visited (says Mr. Purkis) every place pos- 
sessing any remains of antiquity, any curious produc- 
tions of nature or art, and every spot distinguished 
by romantic and picturesque scenery. Our friend's 
diversified talents, with his knowledge of geology 
and natural history in general, rendered him a most 
delightful companion in a tour of this description. 
Every mountain we beheld, and every river we 
crossed, ajffbrded a fruitful theme for his scientific 
remarks. The form and position of the mountain, 
with the several strata of which it was composed, 
always procured for me information as to its cha- 
racter and classification ; and every bridge we crossed, 
invariably occasioned a temporary halt, with some 
appropriate observations on the productions of the 
river and on the diversion of angling." • 

During this tour he wrote the following letter to 
my mother : — 

'^ Sept 1.^ Bala^ in North Wales. 

" My dear Mother, 

" You received a letter from me dated Buxton, or 
you ought to have received it. Since that letter was 
written, I have been at Matlock. I passed through 
Macclesfield, Manchester, and Chester; and I am 
now rambling through North Wales. This country, 
in point of beauty and grandeur, is the first that I 
have seen ; and being a real lover of beauty, and of 
grandeur, I have been truly enraptured with the 
various scenes that have been presented to me. 

** I have a friend with me ; and we propose to tra- 
verse the whole of the principality, from Conway to 

• " Life/' by Dr. Paris, p. l6l. 



S68 MEMOIRS OF TH£ LIFE OF 

Chepstow, and to return to London by way of Bath 
and Bristol. I shall write to you as soon as I can 
reach London ; and I should take it very kind if you 
would address a letter for me to the care of * J. King, 
Esq., Dowrie Square, Bristol/ I am anxious to hear 
how you are, and it is almost five weeks since I 
received your last letter. You must write imme- 
diately, for I shall be in London before a fortnight is 
expired. 

&lt;&lt; The man who attends the inn here is almost a 
Cornishman : he was one of the Merionethshire 
militia* ; and talks to me of every body in Penzance. 
Wishing you health and happiness, and blessings of 
every kind, I am, with love to my sisters and John, 

" Your very affectionate Son, 

« H. Davy.'' 

During the summer and autumn of 1803, I cannot 
find that he went any great distance from London. 
He was then much occupied in chemical researches 
connected with agriculture, and he spent three weeks 
with the enlightened President of the Board of Agri- 
culture, the late Lord Sheffield. 

The following year, during the fine season, he 
visited Scotland for the first time, and the Western 
Islands, and passed some time in Somersetshire ; but 
of neither of these excursions have I been able to 
obtain any particulars. The former is merely alluded 
to in a letter to my mother on his return : — 

'' London^ Sept. 5. 1804. 

«* My dear Mother, 
" I arrived this morning, safe and well, from my 
expedition to the North. My journey has been long, 

* This regiment had been quartered in Penzance previously. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 269 

but veiy pleasant ; and I have brought back with me 
a stock of health, and of information for the labours 
of the coming season. 

&lt;^ I hope you and all my friends are quite well ; 
and that John is proceeding in improvement, in sta^ 
tare, and in goodness of disposition ; and that Kitty 
is not the less pleased with the quiet of Penzance, 
after having seen the splendour of London. Pray 
remember me to her with brotherly affection, and 
with all duty to my aunt and uncle Sampson, and 
my aunt and uncle Millet 

&lt;^ You will read in the papers constant alarms con- 
cerning invasion, but be assured that no invasion will 
take place at this time ; it is the most unfavourable 
moment for Buonaparte. The imperial diadem hangs 
over his head by a slender thread, which the slightest 
reverse of fortune would break; and he will not 
tempt his fate by the risk of a failure in his plans till 
he shall be more securely seated in his blood-stained 
throne. 

" There is no news at present in town worth men- 
tioning. I shall be very glad to hear from you of 
Penzance, for it is very long since I have enjoyed the 
pleasure of a letter. 

** I am, my dear Mother, 

" Your most affectionate Son, 

" H. Davy." 

In 1805, in the summer, after he ha^ delivered his 
first course of lectures on geology, he made a journey 
to the north of Ireland, for the purpose of examining 
the extraordinary basaltic formation of that coast ; 






270 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and in the autumn he accompanied his friend Mn 
(afterwards Sir Thomas) Bernard into Cornwall. 

During his Irish excursion he formed the acquaint- 
ance, which he ever afterwards highly valued, of the 
late excellent Bishop of Raphoe, and of his sister, 
Lady Brownrigg. And I have been favoured by 
her Ladyship with some account of him at this time, 
very descriptive of his appearance and manner, which 
I shall give in her own words : — 

I was very young," Lady Brownrigg writes, 

when I had first the pleasure of seeing your highly 
gifted brother. We had been invited (I say tve, for 
I was then with the Bishop of Raphoe) by Dr. 
Richardson to go to his cottage at Portrush, * to 
meet the famous Mr. Davy.' We arrived a short 
time before dinner. In passing through a room we 
saw a youth, as he appeared, who had come in from 
fishing, and who, with a little note-book, was seated 
in a window-seat, having left a bag, rod, &amp;c. on the 
ground. He was very intent upon this little book, 
and we passed through unnoticed. We shook hands 
with our host and hostess, and prepared for dinner. 
When I went into the drawing-room, under some 
little awe of this great philosopher, annexing to such 
a character at least the idea of an elderly grave 
gentleman, not, perhaps, with so large a wig as Dr. 
Parr, or so sententious a manner as Dr. Johnson, — 
but certainly I never calculated on being introduced 
to the identical youth, with a little brown head, like 
a boy, that we had seen with his book, and who, 
when I came into the drawing-room, was in the most 
animated manner recounting an adventure on the 
Causeway which had entertained him, and, from 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 271 

his manner of telling it, was causing loud laughing in 
the whole room. The evening passed very agreeably : 
my brother played chess with Sir Humphry ; but 
after supper a very interesting occurrence took 
place. A poor unfortunate gentleman, who exem- 
plified that &lt; a little learning is a dangerous thing/ 
had thought to show his wit and wisdom in being a 
professed sceptic, and had volunteered a visit to Dr. 
Richardson, in order to be made known to Mn Davy, 
anticipating a triumph over the two divines, when he 
had the powerful aid of the great philosopher to over- 
throw the Christian religion. Therefore, as soon as 
we ladies had retired, this disciple of Voltaire and 
the rest of the Encyclopedists openly began, and was 
elated by the silent and deep attention with which 
the philosopher listened to him ; while my irritable 
friend. Dr. Richardson, exhibited great symptoms of 
annoyance : however, all the forms of attack from 
this esprit fort were poured into the. ears of your 
brother. At last he paused, full of triumphant ex- 
pectation, when, to the inexpressible delight of my 
brother, in the finest tone of eloquence, and with a 
fervour of piety, your delightful brother defended 
Christianity in such a manner that, as the Bishop 
said, the efiect upon him was such that he stood up^ 
feeling, for the first time, that impulse which made 
the congregation all rise at some splendid burst of 
religious fervour in a sermon of Bourdaloue or Mas- 
sillon. Your brother, when he had completely put 
down his opponent, turned in the prettiest manner to 
the two clergymen, and apologised for having ^ taken 
up the weapons which would have been so much more 
ably wielded in their hands.' They finished their 
wine and water, and parted for the night. At break- 



272 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

fast our deistical friend did not appear. He had 
actually skulked off to his home, some forty Irish 
miles from this memorable scene." 

This anecdote from Lady Brownrigg brings to my 
recollection that about this time, as I have been well 
informed^ some of his powerful 'friends, especially the 
Bishop of Durham, and Sir Thomas Bernard, were 
desirous that he should enter the Church, with the 
persuasion that his eloquence might be of efficient 
service in the cause of religion, and holding out to 
him the brightest prospects of preferment That he 
declined these offers I need not say. He contented 
himself with giving his aid in the cause in connection 
with science, as is expressed in the following letter to 
Sir Thomas Bernard, which was published in a news- 
paper of the day, prefaced by some good remarks on 
the part of the editor on the unfortunate and melan- 
choly disunion between science and religion, which 
had taken place in France : — 

^^ Royal Institution. 

" My dear Sir, 
" Many thanks for your kind letter, and for the 
interest you take in my public labours. I am never 
more delighted than when I am able to deduce any 
moral and religious conclusions from philosophical 
truths. Science is valuable for many reasons ; but 
there is nothing that gives it so high and dignified a 
character, as the means which it affords of interpret- 
ing the works of nature, so as to unfold the wisdom 
and glory of the Creator. Be assured, my dear Sir, 
that I shall lose no opportunity of making those de- 
ductions which awaken devotional feelings, and cqn-. 
nect the natural with the moral sense. .And I hope 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 'S73 

my claims to your approbation, and to the approba- 
tion of men who, like you, combine pious sentiments 
with noble and enlightened views, will not diminish^ 
for it is very grateful to me. 

** I am, dear Sir, 
" With the most unfeigned respect, 

« H. Davy/' 

Sentiments of this kind, both in public and pri- 
vate, on suitable occasions, he appears to have had a 
pleasure in expressing. In the specimens of his lec- 
tures already given, instances of them occur ; and, 
later in life, he still more indulged in them. Lady 
Brownrigg, in recording the preceding anecdote, 
refers to his ** Salmonia," to an eloquent passage, in 
which he gives his idea of the value of religious 
belief : — 

" I envy no quality of the mind or intellect in 
others, be it genius, power, wit, or fancy ; but if I 
could choose what would be most delightful, and, I 
believe, most useful to me, I should prefer a firm reli- 
gious belief to every other blessing : for it makes life 
a discipline of goodness ; creates new hopes when all 
earthly hopes vanish, and throws over the decay, the 
destruction of existence, the most gorgeous of all 
lights ; awakens life even in death, and from cor- 
ruption and decay calls up beauty and divinity ; 
makes an instrument of torture and of shame the 
ladder of ascent to Paradise ; and, far above a]l com- 
binations of earthly hopes, calls up the most delight- 
ful visions of palms and amaranths — the gardens of 
the blest, the security of everlasting joys, where the 
sensualist and the sceptic view only gloom^ decay^ 
annihilation, and despair." 

VOL. I. T 



^4 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

In the early summer of 1806 ^ he again went to 
Ireland, and visited some of the most interesting 
parts of that country. I shall insert a considerable 
portion of the journal which he kept during the tour, 
as it shows the objects for which he travelled, and the 
systematic manner in which he observed: and for 
another reason, as it conveys the impressions made on 
his mind by tlie country and people in districts in 
jnany respects peculiar, and out of the track of or- 
dinary tourists. The reader should keep in recot 
Jection, that the journal was intended solely for his 
own use ; that it was never copied by the author, or 
even looked over for correction ; and in brief, that it 
is composed merely of rough notes, some of which, 
in consequence of the haste in which they were 
.written, it is difficult to decipher. The journal is a 
fragment, and commences at Limerick:-— 

'^ Limerick, June 27* 

" 1. The journey from Rathkeal to Limerick, 
.without many objects of interest. Small hills, with* 
out wood ; plains covered with bog for many miles. 
Adare is the first place calculated to arrest the atten- 
tion of the traveller. Here is wood, fine trees, and 
some monastic buildings beautiful in their ruins. The 
architecture, where it retains its characteristics, Go- 
thic ; the walls covered with ivy : a scene denoting 
ancient splendour, whilst the cabins which surround 
the walls tell a tale of existing wretchedness. 

&lt;&lt; Within four miles of Limerick, a mountain scene 
is developed. The Keeper chain to the east, the 
Clare hills to the north ; their forms smooth and ge- 
nerally rounded, and the most lengthened inclinatioD 
to the west. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. QTJS 

" limerick. — A large well-built city. The Shan- 
non, a fine river ; but, though affected b j the tide, cer* 
tainly inferior in size (perhaps even in the quantity of 
water it sends down) to the Thames and the Seventy 
at equal distances from the sea. 

** Marks of improvement — Good buildings rising; 
a handsome race of people, and more pretty young 
women than I have seen since our departure from 
London ; a fine fall of the Shannon, when the tide 
is down ; and a river about a mile above it, where 
salmon are caught in abundance. Limerick might 
be ima^ned an English town by those who had no 
dealing with the keepers of the inns and of livery 
stables. No beautiful or grand scenery about this 
city. The banks of the Shannon bare, or but little 
wooded ; and no remarkable character in the river, 
if the extreme clearness and purity of the water be 
excepted. From Limerick to Nenagh, a road through 
a cultivated country. Views from the Shannon, and 
some fine effects from the Keeper mountains. 

^* 2. Geology of Limerick, and the mountains bor« 
dering upon it: — Sandstone schist and sandstone 
occur near Rathkeal^ and shell limestone is abundant 
on all the road from Killarney to Limerick. Several 
quarries have been opened. The character of the 
rock is distinct ; much mechanical deposit and little 
crystalline matter. The colour dark brown, grey, 
or black. Coal-blend occurs b^ween Killarney and 
Abbey Feale, probably beneath the sandstone slate» 
The limestone inclined very little. The strata nu- 
merous and parallel ; the upper exceedingly broken 
and decomposed, and the dip, where, it could be 
distinctly perceived^ to the south. Th« sjbelk ippre 
abundant in the upper strata. 

T 2 



9J6 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

« &lt;&lt; These secondary strata probably thrown out of 
their horizontal position at the same time with the 
elder strata. Like the elder strata of Kerry, they 
are often curved. The curvature of the shell lime- 
stone distinct in the road to Abbey Eeale, but not 
upon so great a scale as at Ross Island. 
' &lt;&lt; The limestone about Limerick shell-rock, and 
probably in parallel layers. The surrounding moun- 
tains afford the same substance, with sandstone and 
slate and pebble-stone ; probably the slate lowest^ 
then the pebble-stone, then the limestone. 

^&lt; The Keeper range of mountains, from the smooth- 
ness of their outline, and from the detached stones, 
are. probably of similar constitution ; that worked for 
the lead mines called Silver Mines afforded, on examine 
ation, similar facts. A few detached stones of granite 
and syenite on the side of this mountain. A miner told 
us such occurred in the Keeper ; but, as the greatest 
part of this mountain is grit and limestone, I suspect 
he has mistaken pebble-stone for primary rock, and 
that the syenite and granite are from the mountains of 
Kildare or Carlin. Amongst the line of mountains 
to the east of Nenagh, is a mountain most singularly 
indented, called the ^ Devil's Bit,' and traditionally 
said to be a road made for the devil and his goats. It 
is a great limestone rock (i.e. I am told so). The 
appearance is probably owing to a sudden sinking of 
a great portion of a parallel stratum, and the rock, I 
eonceive, must be shell rock. The fact is the more 
singular, as the surrounding mountains are gently 
Founded, but this presents only straight lines. 

*^ 3. Land well cultixated for Ireland ; much pas- 
ture, but no irrigation ; not much liming ; the soil 
very calcarious ; wheat and barley, but Ijtde flax. 



«IR HUMPHRT DAVY. 277- 

*^ 4. The lower classes poorly clad, and nearly as: 
miserable as those of Cork. No marks of that enthu&lt; 
siasm of character which sometimes occurs in Ireland.. 
Idleness without thought, and the old association of 
^orance and impudence. Miserable articles of Irish: 
manufacture, spoken of by their venders as superla* 
tive. . The Limerick hooks and flies altogether fallen 
off, very bad, and very expensive ; yet every paltry^ 
fisherman considers himself as the best fly-Iyer ^ ia 
Limerick, in Dublin, in all Ireland, ay, and in Eng- 
land too — ay, and in the whole world* — having *the 
best colours, making the naitest hook, and having 
the quickest eye and the naitest hand.' 
. &lt;&lt; The shops well furnished with English manufac* 
tures. All comforts, all luxuries, all spirit of im«&gt; 
provement, all that makes Ireland important and 
respectable, are either of foreign growth or of foreign 
education. The great vice of the people is want 
of perseverance : nothing is finished ; they begin 
grandly and magnificently, but complete very little. 
In mining, they build machinery before they have 
discovered a vein ; in the fisheries, they erect their 
cellars before they have purchased nets; and they 
build magnificent stables, which they intend fcnr their 
studs, but which they are themselves obliged to in- 
habit. Foresight and prudence are unknown. 

" Edgetvorth Town. — First aspect of the country 
between Nenagh and Edgeworth Town flat, bare, and 
without any objects of beauty. The course of the 
Shannon is through a flat country, its banks bare and 
reedy ; its current slow; sometimes deq) and still, and 
confined within shores of one hundred yards» at other 
times expanded into lakes, with islands. Nq inouoi- 
tains 5 hills sa rare, that a woman at Athlone^ 2!epoi»t 

T a 



1278 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

mehding us to take four horses on account of Hiie 
hills, said they were • terrible hills, very high, as high, 
ay, and higher too, than the house,' which was an 
exceedingly low edifice of two stories. The Shannon 
at Portumna is deep, but rapidly spreads out in its 
course into a great loch. At Banagher it is rapid be- 
low the bridge, and at Athlone still more rapid, and 
not more than fifty yards over. The little river 
Inny runs by Ballinachur. Here are hills, but no 
wood, and bog or grass land, with some arable, flax 
and barley, and a little wheat. 

« The country about Edgeworth Town flat, but an 
amphitheatre of hills surrounding the plain. None 
of them very high, probably all less than 1000 feet. 
One hill, the hill of Ardar, we ascended, and saw 
a great extent of ground: the quiet Shannon 
rolling sleepily and slowly through green meadows 
and brown bogs, to the south ; to the west, a great 
range of very distant mountains ; to the north the 
hills of Westmeath, low and rounded ; to the east, fog, 
where, in a clear day, we might have seen the moun« 
tains of Wicklow. 

&lt;' 2. Limestone, sandstone, and puddingstone, in 
various associations. 

^' 3. Except the moral and intellectual paradise of 
the author of « Castle Rackrent,* nothing worthy ol 
observation. 

•* 4. The county of Westmeath and that of Long* 
ford abound in small lakes, which are surrounded by 
bogs ; and in the shores of them, in dry seasons, the 
horns and bones of deer are discovered in great 
abundance. This country, now so bare, was anciently 
an immense forest ; and it is an object which might 
employ speculatioii as worthily as many other objects. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. S79* 

whether the great change was owing to the slow ope- 
rations of nature, decay, or to some great convulsion • 
or inundation, 

*' Donegal, July 17. 

" 1. Aspect of the country from Edgeworth 
Town to Belturbet, without any marked traits of 
beauty ; some hills to the south possessing a varied 
outline, but a general want of wood ; green and cul- 
tivated fields, bogs and heath land. 

** From Belturbet to Enniskillen an exceedingly 
beautiful country. The Erne appears, at Belturbet, 
immediately in the town, a rapid torrent, but becom- 
ing a lake above and below. The access to Loch 
Erne is through rounded hills, green with pasture ; 
few trees. From the top of the hill, about eight miles 
from Belturbet, the lake appears a noble expanse of 
water, with many wooded islands. A green and cul- 
tivated hill, of most graceful form, the principal near 
object, and some blue mountains in the background, 
tabular and smooth ; a view of great extent, soft and 
quiet, without rudeness of form or strong contrast of 
colouring, yet impressive from its magnitude, from 
the variety of land and water, and from the beauty of 
cultivation. A number of lakes of various sizes, few; 
exceeding two miles in circumference, border the 
upper part of Loch Erne, and pour their water£| 
^nto the Upper Erne ; but the banks of most of them 
are boggy. There is no rock scenery, and few trees« 
At Enniskillen the Upper Loch Erne is joined to the 
Lower by two streams crossed by bridges, and th« 
town stands in the island formed by them. The road 
from Enniskillen to Ballyshannon is exceedingly 
beautiful. Views of Loch Erne, studded with green 

T 4 



HBO MEMOIRS OV THE LIFE OF 

idands, aad bounded by blue mountains^ to the east ; 
en the west and south, hills covered in some parts 
Mrith wood, and exhibiting in most parts trees jvst 
beginning to throw out ^roung shoots from their 
lopped trunks. About Church Hill, to the north, a 
small lake, surrounded by very grand mountain 
scenery, indented rocks, disposed in some parts in 
horizontal layers, forming the western boundary; 
green mountains, presenting here and there blue and 
yellow cliffi ; and in the distance a great surface &lt;^ 
bare rock, not less than 700 or 800 feet above 
the lake. The mountains on the south extend- 
ing from the Upper Loch Erne to Sligo, all similar in 
form, and presenting immense layers of rocks, having 
bright green slopes at their bases, and immense gullies 
cut from the top to the bottom. Their outline is 
made up of straight and jagged lines ; their side often 
nearly perpendicular, and the highest probably con- 
siderably above 2000 feet. The first view of Loch 
£me is at about five miles from Church Hill. Here 
the mountain cliffs of Leitrim form a grand outline 
on the south ; and the mountains of Fermanagh, com- 
posed of irregular masses of bright brown rock, 
covered with heath, and at the feet green with grass, 
appear to the north and east, rising boldly out of the 
lake's wooded promontories ; hills repose beyond them, 
and the great expanse of water is broken by an im- 
mense number of islands, all of soft and curved forms, 
and for the most part finely wooded ; in the northern 
distance, the blue mountains of Fermanagh, and fur- 
ther west, those of Donegal. 

" The Erne runs rapidly over dark layers of rock 
into the sea at Ballyshannon ; its banks are but little 
wooded^ but it is a noble river, a succession of smaU 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 881 

cataracts ; and its last and greatest fall is a wild and 
sublime scene. The river precipitates itself over 
jagged, broken, stratified rocks, into the Atlantic ; 
white foam, and brown water, and black rock, and 
the blue sea, are the prime objects : the scene is 
the more impressive from the simplicity of its parts. 
From the hill above Ballyshannon appear, to the souths 
the hills of Sligo and of Leitrim, bold and fantastic 
in form ; Benvallen, a pyramidical mountain, appear- 
ing almost immediately above the town, and yet it is 
said to be twenty miles distant : Cape Tillen, to the 
west, a noble mass of mountain, grand and indistinct ; 
the hills to the north of very fine outlines, and co- 
louring bright brown, bare, and apparently pro- 
ducing nothing but moss. 

" The road from Ballyshannon to Donegal over 
green hills ; no trees. The bare rocks and moun- 
tains having their summits sometimes disclosed, and 
sometimes hidden in mist, in the background. The 
river Esk, a fine mountain torrent ; but without wood 
on its banks, aud having nothing to recommend it 
but the wildness of its surrounding scenery. 

^* S. People more civilised than in the midland 
counties, or in Kerry; better dressed, and more 
beauty of person. Protestants becoming more nu« 
merous as we advanced further north ; still consider- 
able religious feuds. We passed from fielturbet to 
Enniskillen on the 12th of July, the day of King 
William's triumph, and we heard and saw much riot ; 
processions of men with the orange lily in their 
hats, women wearing this flower as a nosegay. The 
liberty of wearing it interdicted to the Catholics ; a 
sign by which the Orangemen are still known. At 
jiight there is generally a battle between the two par- 



28S M£MOIRS OF THE £IF£ OF 

ties. The Catholic soldiers at £nniskiileir, the li- 
merick miUtia, did not £re on this day, but the Pro* 
testant regiments always do. Ballyshannon is a truly 
Irish' town — high houses, good in exterior, wretched 
internally ; peats stopping up the windows ; broken 
glass ; no sashes to be found. 

" 8. Course of crops. — Potatoes, oats, barley: this 
about Loch Erne. Further north a more enlight- 
ened system. At Ramelton, in Donegal, potatoes, 
barley, oats, flax. After seven years, usually a fallow ; 
then grass seed is sown, and three years taken in 
grass. Manure with the potatoes, never with the 
flax. Shell-sand used, particularly after fallow. 
Flax the staple commodity of the country. 

" Geology of Fermanagh^ Cavan^ Leitrim^ Donegal. 

&lt;' In Cavan, about Ballinaght, a granitic schistose 
country. The granite associated with grawak^ 
schist and porphyry, and probably of the flrst family 
of secondary rock. The schist, composed of com- 
pact felspar and chlorite, with a little mica ; the por- 
phyry having a base of compact felspar, and much de- 
composed, and where decomposed white. Beyond 
Cavan the secondary strata again occur, and continue 
to Ballyshannon, where the first micaceous schist in 
the west and north of Ireland occurs, at least as far 
as our knowledge extends. Limestone and sand- 
stone at Belturbet ; limestone dipping to the west, 
and abounding in shells and coral of difierent kinds ; 
limestone occupying the greatest part of the sub- 
soil in the road to Enniskillen, and an immense num- 
ber of layers, in general parallel to the horizon. At 
Church Hill, clifls of a limestone of considerable coa* 
soHdation. The mountains of Leitrim composed of 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT* 283 

parallel layers of limestone and sandstone ; basaltic 
bolder stones, probably from dykes. 

^' At Ballyshannon the Erne falls over limestone: 
rocks, and a fine crystallised magnesian limestone- 
occupies the lowest strata on the banks of the Erne ; 
and this limestone contains rhomboidal spathose 
crystals, and quartz crystals, in great abundance; 
and above it is a limestone full of corals, alternating 
with a carbonaceous shale, but no coal visible. Coal 
will probably be found in abundance in the lowest 
part of the Leitrim mountains, as the strata are of 
the carboniferous family. 

&lt;^ The high mountains of Donegal are, probably, 
all micaceous schist, or granite, or sienite, at least in 
this part. 

&lt;* In the mountain road through the Bamesmore- 
gap, high mountains of granite, with comparatively 
litde mica, constratified and massy in formation; 
Lower micaceous schist, of beautiful varieties; a 
number of species of gneiss ; tumblers of trap and 
syenite ; a few quartz veins in the granite, and some 
veins of quartz and of calcareous spar in the gneiss 
above Donegal: no chlorite, metalliferous indica- 
tions in these mountains.'^ 

" Donegal^ July 19. 

^^ Rameltofu — Road from Ballyshannon to Done« 
gal exceedingly wild ; rude mountains to the north 
and west ; green hills around the course of road ; 
views of Cape Tillen, and of the mountain capes 
stretching into the Atlantic, and the mountains of 
Leitrim south, stratified, dnd presenting a striking 
contra^ to the rude massive rocks of Don^al. 

« At Ballybofey, the river Finn, a large mountain 



284^ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Stream, at this time brown from floods ; wooded hills 
on the west ; bare brown curved hills on the east 
and north-east* From Ballibofey to Litterkenny, a 
very wild road ; a great chain of mountains to the 
north and north-west; the Arrigle and Muckrsh. 
The summit of Arrigle peaked, and rising acutely 
pyramidical ; that of Muckrsh tabular. The valleys 
wild, and but little cultivated ; very few trees j grey 
rock, heath, and the sides of gullies covered with 
lively green herbage* 

" From Ballybofey to Ramelton, a very fine and 
impressive assemblage of scenery. Loch Swilly, a 
fine expanse of salt water, bounded in front by green 
habitable hills ; a few groups of trees on the very 
edge of the water ; in the distance high and wild 
mountains; two peculiar, marked in outline and 
height, tabular and rounded; the most northern, 
Ossian's Mount. On the west and north, magnificent 
views of the Arrigle and Muckrsh chain, indistinct, 
blue, rising amongst the clouds, which are rolling 
about their sides and summits ; irregular craggy 
hills, chiefly bare rocks, below them. 

&lt;&lt; Ramelton, seated on the banks of a beautiful 
liver, immediately discharging itself into Loch Swilly ; 
trees on the banks of the water ; distant mountains 
above, and parts of the loch, with its beautiful 
boundaries, visible from all the streets of the village. 

** 2. The best race of people that has appeared in 
the course of the journey; civility, with independ* 
ence of spirit; no marks of the broken reed of 
rebellion ; no humility nor crouching, but much dig* 
Bity and simplicity; yet the potatoe grows even 
amongst the mountains of the Finns, and the un«&gt; 
quiet and uncertain spirit now and then breaks forth. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 38A 

I witnessed the humours of a crowd at RameltODi 
assembled after having seen a pony race. A great 
number of men and women jostled together in the 
narrow streets of a little town, without any other 
object than that of pushing each other ; every room 
in every house filled with people, enjoying whisky 
and tobacco ; beggars, wherever there was a standings 
or a sitting, or a lying place ; a number of drunken 
horse and foot passengers ; much finery of dress, 
but a number of persons who seemed rather to have 
wished to appear magnificent than to know how to 
produce the effect; a profusion of ribands and of 
white linens ; not much beauty of person. A great 
fight took place after the fair (an event that is always 
hoped for, and expected), and a number of heads 
were broken, and much blood, inflamed by whisky, 
shed, but no lives absolutely lost ; one man was * twice 
killed* by another, knocked down, and the head twice 
cut. He was a Litterkenny boy, and had offended 
the oppressing hero, by saying, * Ay ! and is not the 
boy of Latterkenny as good as the Ramelton boy, at 
cutting a bog or at heaving the peat ? ' Many tra^ 
ditional stories of the giant race of the Finns, and their 
chieftain, Finmacoul ; and Gaelic songs are said to 
be remembered and recited by the old men in the 
wild glens of Muckrsh and Arrigle. 

&lt;&lt; 3. Geology. — Granite and micaceous schist, and 
a great variety of syenites about Bally bofey. The in- 
clination of tJie micaceous schist appeared to me to 
be uniformly to the north. Limestone about a mile 
from Ballybofey; carbonate of lime, with much 
mica, stratified and directed to the north ; alternate 
layers, in the principal quarry, of a compact siliceous 
rock and crystallised carbonate of lime, and, the car^ 



886 MEMOIRS OP THE LIFE OF 

bonate of lime having been washed out at the sur* 
face, the rock appears ribbed: much curvature, 
both of the siliceous rock and the marble veins of 
quartz and of calcareous spar cutting the limestone, 
and specks of copper and much pyrites in the veins ; 
lower is a more compact marble ; the upper marble 
is splintering in fracture, but this is nearer Carrara 
marble : this, probably; a great dyke of the same 
formation as the Killarney marble, filling a chasm in 
the micaceous schist. 

&lt;&lt; From Ballybofey to Ramelton, a similar consti- 
tution of country, similar inclination, curvature of 
strata, and immediately by Loch Swilly, great abun* 
dance of a micaceous schist, principally composed of 
quartz. 

, " In the mountains above Loch Foyle, and by 
Loch Salt, marble of elder formation, and a rock ap« 
proaching very nearly to serpentine in its character, 
but composed of hornblende, felspar, and a little 
chlorite. The high mountains about Loch Salt, 
syenite and quartz rock ; no regular inclination, but 
a distinct stratification, and much disturbance and 
curvature : the limestone beds inclined to the south. 

&lt;&lt; In the general arrangement about Loch Swilly, 
the micaceous schist occupies the lowest position ; 
above this is a stratified rock, principally consisting 
of marble, with a little mica, and exceedingly in- 
curvated ; and upon these occur the beds of lime* 
stone, which, in several instances, are in absolute 
contact and union with micaceous schist, and con- 
tain mica in abundance ; at the top of all, syenite of 
different kinds: the felspar and mica exceedingly 
white, and very decomposable; and quartz rocks 
crystalline, and having the greasy fracture. 



SIB HUMPHRY DAVY. S87 

*^ Muckrsh, said to be composed of quartz-rock« 
The quartzose sand belonging to it has probably re- 
sulted from the decomposition of a compound rock of 
4}uartz and felspar. 

" The immense proportion of quartz in the moun- 
tains of this district is a fact which can hardly be 
explained by any application, howevier forced, of the 
Huttonian theory. Pressure cannot interfere where 
the material is simple, and where no elastic matter is 
present ; and to suppose any terrene solvent, which 
has afterwards been separated, will not coincide with 
the known laws of chemical affinity. 

» 

'^ SnndAy, July 82. 

*^ 1. The morning of this day I spent in a ride to 
the mountain district of Donegal. From Ramelton 
to Nilmacrenan, wildness in the fore-ground, and in 
the back-ground bogs, and bare rocks in the vaUey. 
The sides of the hills only cultivated, and the sum- 
mits partly coloured, brown heath, and grey or white 
rock. 

*^ At Loch Salt, three miles from Nilmacrenan, a 
grand view. The Atlantic to the north-west, with 
A variety of salt-water lochs washing the feet of bleak 
mountains ; fresh-water lochs nearer, in the cavities 
of the mountains. Amongst these. Loch Salt won- 
derfully magnificent ; breasted by a mountain to the 
east, at least a thousand feet high, and principally 
coitiposed of rocks so white as to seem covered with 
snow ; to the west, green hills with curved rocks, and 
a singular assemblage of decomposed and water- worn 
stones ; and to the south an almost perpendicular 
precipice. 
. '&lt; From the summit of the mountsiin above Loch 



288 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Salty the wildest scene in Ireland^ MuckrsI} and 
Arigle, having their summits peeping above the 
clouds; distant, yet only so distant that the great 
gullies of Angle and its yellow colouring were visible, 
and the dark heath of Muckrsh, and its white seams 
of sand: between the intermediate mountains, pre- 
cipices of rock, green hills, and dark lakes, with tor- 
rents pouring down the sides of mountains, whose 
summits were hiddeli in rain clouds. Sunshine ap- 
peared on some spots, whilst black clouds covered 
others ; and, in the space of ten minutes, the spot on 
which I stood had been wet and dry. 

&lt;&lt; 2. Amongst these mountains, I met with a sin- 
gular race of beings, — the most gifted with vague 
curiosity of any men I have seen. They asked ques- 
tions without considering whether they were civil or 
uncivil, and seemed little daunted by reproof. — Q» 
^ Where do you come from ?* A.^ Ramelton.' — « Do 
you belong there ?* * No.* — * What place do you be- 
long?' &lt; London.* — * Is it war or peace?* *War.* — 
* Have the English lost any men ?' * There has been 
no battle lately.* — * When was the last ? * • Lord 
Nelson's ; did you never hear of him ? * — * No. What 
is your name ?* * It is a name you have never heard 
of, and never will hear of? * — The dialect and accent 
not similar to the Irish, but rather pure English, with 
many interlardings of unmeaning expressions, the 
most favourite of which was *Teagues.* They all 
agreed that there were old men who knew the his- 
tory of the Finns and Finn Macoul, in Gaelic ; but 
no one could show me the abode of these sages. 

" Four religions — a mountain religion (Cove- 
nanters), a Scotch kirk, a Romish church, and an 
English church. The kirk exceedingly troublesome. 



SIR HUMPHRT t)AVY. ' Stt^ 

Arid gteat enemies to Sabbath-breakers.' A man Hot 
with whiskey, and with the Presbyterian spirit, took 
away my rod on Sunday evening. The people of the 
town seemed to resent the injury, but rather too 
mildly. The people are in a state scarcely as yet pre- 
pared for improvement ; the middling classes having 
rude hospitality, the lowest barbarous: gratitude, 
however, was striking. A boy applied to me for me- 
dicine ; I prescribed for him, gave him physic, and, 
what was better, money: his gratitude was of the 
nobler kind. It is only in towns that the lower classes 
are depraved. 

" Newtown Limayaddy, July 24u 

. '^ 1. The road from Ramelton to Raphoe exceed*^ 
iogly hilly, cultivated ^ but bare stone walls, or 
mounds of earth, forming the enclosures. 

** From Raphoe to Deny, for the first seven or 
eight miles, nothing worthy of observation. Great 
hills without rocks, enclosed, and gentle in their de- 
clivities. Within four miles of Derry, a view of the 
Foyle, a great river ; here, indeed, an arm of the sea, 
afiected by the tides ; near Derry the banks wooded, 
and the whole landlocked ; the hills of Donegal and 
the cliffs of MacgiDigan in the back-ground. Derry 
a well-built and lively city ; much business done, but 
I should conceive too remote from the main ocean to 
admit of a quick navigation to the ports of the north 
of England or Scotland, and not likely to rival BeU 
fast. 

" From Derry to Newtown Limavaddy, the first 
four miles through a flat cultivated country, backed 
by the hills of Donegal, bounding Loch Foyle j gra« 
dually scenes of .beauty appear, fine woods on |;he 
banks of the sea ; Scotch firs in abundance, birch, 

VOL. I. u 



£90 M£]!AOIR9 OF THE LIFE OF 

Mky holljr^ The distances very grand. The blue 
ftof of Loch Fqyle, bounded to the west by the grey 
mi^ty land of Donegal, and to the east by the grand 
and elevated cliffs of Macgilligan, the bases of which 
smile with verdure and cultivation, and the summits 
of which abrupt crags frown barren, desolate, and 
exposed to all the storms of the north. Newtown 
Limavaddy beautifully situated on the banks of a 
little dear meandering river, and elevated upon a 
gentle hill : a plain beneath, with meads and light 
and beautiful woods; the near hills wooded^ and 
mountains, with green sides and bare suaunits» in the 
eastern distance. The amphitheatre of mountains 
all of peculiar characters, and the character of the 
eastern chain marking a new country ; a long line of 
ascent from the north, and a rapid declivity towards 
the south. 

^* S. The micaceous schist extends on the banks of 
the river of Newtown Limavaddy, having similar cha- 
racters to those which it possesses in Donegal. Here, 
at Newton Limavaddy, rises the great basaltic cliff 
of Renavenac. No point of junction of this district 
with the schistose district appears. The summit of 
Renavenac is composed of a number of layers of ba^ 
salt, rude in their forms, and grand in their outlines. 
Below the face of the cliff are irregular crags, contain- 
ingan immense number of zeolites; zeolites, agate, and 
calcareous spars, are found in all the cavities of the 
basalt. The cliff can scarcely be less than SOOO feet 
above the level of the sea, and is exceedingly difficult 
of access. Small seams of coal are said to have been 
found at the base. A quarry of white limestone, with 
flints, has been broken in upon, and some scattered 
JEragments of occur on both sides. The flrst 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. SQi 

r^ular exposed 8upeq)osition of basalt, with regard 
to chalk, is to be found at a cliff about three miles to 
the north. This chalk is of the same degree of con- 
solidation as the lias limestone. Layers of single 
flints unaltered occur within six feet of it, and are 
seldom altered within two feet These layers of flints 
are usually about two feet or twenty-eight inches 
asunder, and are usually about twice the size of the 
flst. The chalk stratum appears here at about thirty 
feet in height, and is topped by basalt, from three to 
four hundred feet probably. Immediately above the 
chalk is a great layer of flint, four feet in thicknesSf 
with a red intermediate substance. Here the flints 
are either reddened, white, or crumbly in some of 
their parts, and the basalt at the point of contact is 
very decomposable. 

^* The stratification of these cliffs is well marked* 
In one part these strata were distinct:*— 

&lt;^ 1. Irregular columnar basalt. 

&lt;&lt; a. Small tabular schistose decomposing basah. 

» S. Tabular basalt. 

«&lt; 4. An ochreous stratum of small thickness. 

^* 5. Irregular tabular basalt, coming upon the flint 
in irregular outline. 

&lt;&lt; 6. The flints generally red or white, and much 
fractured, with a soft ochreous substance b^;ween 
them. 

&lt;&lt; 7- The chalk with its strata of flints declining to- 
wards the east, and lost about a mile off. The basalt 
likewise becomes lower towards the east, and the 
whole declination seems to be of this side.^* 

His views relative to the political state of Ireland^ 
founded on the observations which he made duidng 

u 2 



292 MEMOIRS OF THR LIFE ' OF 

this excursion, are briefly and forcibly expressed in a 
letter to his friend, Mr. Poole, written after his return 
to London, in October, 1805 : — i 

• " I long very much for the intercourse of a week 
with you : I have very much to say about Ireland. 
It is an island which might be made a new and a 
great country. It now boasts a fertile soil, an inge^ 
nibus and robust peasantry, and a rich aristocracy ; 
but the bane of the nation is the equality of poverty 
aitaongst the lower orders. All are slaves, without 
the probability of becoming free ; they are in the 
state of equality which the sans culottes wished for in 
France ; and, until emulation, and riches, and the love 
of clothes and neat houses are introduced amongst 
them, there will be no permanent improvement. 

&lt;' Changes in political institutions can, at first, 
do little towards serving them : it must be by al- 
tering their- habits, by diffusing manufactories, by 
destro3dng middle men, by dividing farms, and- by 
promoting industry by making the pay proportional 
to the work : but I ought not to attempt to say any 
thing on the subject when my limits are so narrow ; 
I hope soon to converse with you about it." 

Another letter to the same gentleman is deserving 
of a place, both in relation to his views on mining 
enterprises and the principles of government. It 
was written in the spring or summer of 1806 ; and, 
as appears from the concluding paragraph, when he 
considered himself on the eve of setting out on an 
excursion to the north of Europe ; but which cir- 
cumstances, that I am not aware of, prevented his 
then acomplishing : — 



SIR HUMPHRr DAVY. $95 

'' To Thomas Poole, Esq. 

■ " My dear Poole, 

*' What you have written concerning the indiffer- 
ence of men with regard to the interest of the spe- 
cies in future ages, is perfectly just and philosophical i 
but the greatest misfortune is, that men do not attend 
even to their own interest, and to the interest of 
their own age, in public matters. They think in mo- 
ments, instead of thinking, as they ought to do, in 
years; and they are guided by expediency rather 
than by reason. The true political maxim is, that 
the good of the whole community is the good of every. 
• individual ; but how few statesmen have ever been 
guided by this principle ! In almost all governments, 
the plan has been to sacrifice one part of the com- 
munity to other parts ; sometimes the people to the 
aristocracy; at other times, the aristocracy to the 
people ; sometimes the colonies to the mother coun- 
try, and at other times the mother country to the 
colonies. A generous enlightened policy has never 
existed in Europe since the days of Alfred ; and what 
has been called * the balance of power,* the support 
of -civilisation, has been produced only by jealousy, 
envyv bitterness, contest, and eternal war, either car- 
ried on by pens or cannon, destroying men morally 
and physically ! But if I proceed in vague political 
declamation, I shall have no room left for tha main 
object of my letter — ^your mine. I wish it had been 
in my power to write decidedly on the subject ; but 
your county is a peculiar one. Such. indications would 
be highly favourable in Cornwall ; but in a shell 
limestone^ .of late formation, thete have as yet been 
no instances of great copper mines. I hope, however, 
that your mine will produce a rich store of facts. 

ir 3 



S9t MEMOIRS OF THB LIFE OF 

** Miners from Alston Moor, or from Derbyshire, 
would understand your country better than Cornish 
miners ; for the Cornish shifts are wholly different 
from yours. It would be well for you to have some 
workmen at least from the nortli, as they are well 
acquainted with shell limestone. 

** The Ecton copper mine, in Stafibrdshire, is in 
this rock : it would be right for you to get a plan 
and history of that mine, which might possibly assist 
your views, 

** Had I been rich, I would adventure ; but I am 
just going to embark with all the little money I have 
been able to save for a scientific expedition to Nor- , 
way, Lapland, and Sweden* In all climes, 
&lt;&lt; I shall be your warm and sincere friend, 

•' H. Davy.*" 

At this time that my brother's attention was parti- 
cularly given to geology, he formed the design of 
writing ^&lt; Sketches of the Geology and Mineralogy of 
Cornwall ; '' and the following plan of them occurs 
in a note book, bearing the date of 1806 : •— 

'* 1» Situation and general aspect of the country. 

*&lt; 2. Its soils and rocks considered in their phy&amp;ical 
arrangements. 

" 8. Granite. 

&lt;* 4. Micaceous schist. 

•* 5* Serpentine. 

^ 6. Porphyry. 

«« 7. Limestone. 

•« 8. Syenite. 

^ 9. Of veins and dikes ; their direction. 

*« 10. Of the substances they contain. 

"11. Of stream works. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. iQS 

«• 12. Of the mode of working veins. 

^&lt; 13. Of the mode of reducing the metals* 

&lt;&lt; 14. Considerations on the productions of Corn- 
wall. 

«' 15. Economical considerations with regard to 
practical improvements, and a diffusion of theoretical 
knowledge." 

The sketches thus comprehensively planned were 
begun, but not completed ; the course of electro- 
chemical research and discovery, in which, about this 
time^ or soon after, he was fully engaged, either drew 
off his attention from the subject, or did not allow 
him leisure to prosecute it. I shall insert the intro* 
duction, showing his manner of entering on the in» 
quiry; and give two extracts, descriptive of the 
granite of the Land's End, and the serpentine of the 
Lizard. 

" INTRODUCTION TO THE GEOLOGY OF CORNWALL. 

^* It is wholly impossible to give a complete and 
accurate geological and mineralogical history of any 
considerable district. Cornwall offers some objects 
which can, however, scarcdy be attained elsewhere. 
Mines have been opened in it from the earliest times, 
and an immense number are still worked. The ma^ 
terials of the interior have been largely spread upon 
the surface, and not a few excavations are still open to 
the light of the day. Its hilly aspect likewise favours 
the researches of the geologist ; for as nature has been 
unkind as to clothing the face of the country, the bare 
rocks, the bones, and, as it were, the sinews of the 
earth, are more perfectly disclosed. The sea likewise 
has intersected upon a great scale the strata of the 
country, and the Atlantic has displayed, in a series 

u 4 



^96 MEMOIRS OF THK LIFE OF 

of bold, maje8.tic» and diversified cliffs, the general 
arrangements of the rocks of the district. 

** Under such favourable circumstances, Cornwall 
presents a wonderful geological and mineral aspect ; 
it is not like the cliffs of the south of England, com- 
posed of layers of limestone, sandstone, or chalk, 
or, like North Wales and the south of Ireland. 
It contains an immense variety of rocks, and its 
veins unfold the greater number of known mineral 
substances. At first view it would appear as the 
place in which fragments and ruins from the rest of 
the globe had been confusedly heaped together ; but 
when it is correctly examined, its parts appear nei* 
ther independent of arrangement, nor devoid of har- 
mony and order. 

** Though circumstances are very favourable for a 
mineralogical description of Cornwall, yet it is im- 
possible, in the present state of our knowledge, to 
produce anything perfect on the subject. Though 
one of the most mineral districts in the world, yet 
still it is known only to a small depth in most places, 
and considerable portions of it, covered with soil, have 
never been examined by the borer; therefore a 
sketch only can be given, which, however, may be 
continually filled up in parts, and continually be- 
come more perfect and more useful. There is an- 
other apology for this] publication. It may call the 
attention of good observers to the subject ; it may 
supply analogies and ground for inquiries ; and, iu 
the particular case, may be what the able agenda of 
De Saussure are to the general science.*' 

" In the great arrangements of the masses of 
granite of Cornwall, the rock appears composed of 



MR HUMPHRY DAVY. 297 

an imiiiense number of blocks of different sizes. This 
structure is no where more perfectly exhibited than 
in thQ western cliffi. The incessant agency of the 
Atlantic, its storms and its waves, have washed away 
or destroyed all the loose materials of the shore, and 
left abrupt eminences of rock, from 50 to 360 feet 
in height. At Castle Treene, three groups of gra- 
nite occur ; the highest S60 feet in height, the lowest 
not less than 200 feet The arrangement is in masses^ 
which approach to the cubical form, having, how- 
ever, rounded edges, heaped upon each other, and in 
some of their parts covered with lichen and a thick 
iqoss. On the niiddle group stands a granite block 
of about forty feet in girth, poised upon the rock be- 
neath, so that a small force is sufficient to move it. 
Between the blocks there is evidently no junction, as 
happens in the rocks of the basaltic family. 

" The masses are grand, their colours uniform, 
and their uniformity increases the effect upon the. 
eye j and the arrangements of this kind have a pecu- 
liar wildness and sublimity. No where is it seen 
upon a greater scale, or in a more magnificent assem- 
blage of forms, than from a point between the Land's 
End and Castle Treene. Both these grand pro- 
montories appear extending into the Atlantic ; the 
cliffs between 4hem are abrupt and lofty ; the waves 
are broken by a number of small island rocks which 
are scattered along the shore. The few portions of 
soil that appear above the cliff are covered with 
short green grass, tufted with heath and furze, which, 
in the autumn, present mixed hues of purple and 
gold. The rock throughout is of a uniform yellow- 
ish red,, the tint perfectly contrasted to the blue«' 
greens of the sea." 



298 MEMOIUS OF THE LIFE OF 

&lt;&lt; The terpentine of Comwali occurs only in one 
district^ the lizard ; but it is a rock of considerable 
extent^ and very diversified in its appearance. Its 
colours are various; green^ red, g^^yy black, and 
olive, are the common ; and where it is in a state of 
decomposition it is brown: it assumes no regular 
stratification, but appears in small irregular blocks, 
which are joined to each other ; and its usual form 
is that of a shining smooth surface, intersected by a 
number of lines and chasms of different sizes. The 
Lizard district is a low uniform land, covered, where 
there are no cliffs, with green grass, and particular 
varieties of the heath erica vagans : its greatest ele* 
vation is not more than 400 feet. 

** The serpentine of Cornwall is fiir from being 
a simple rock, or one uniform in its texture ; when 
minutely examined, even in the most compact speci- 
mens, it appears constituted by many parts : re- 
splendent hornblende, mica, talc, and felspar, are 
its principal constituents ; occasionally with quartz- 
ose veins, and very often veins of asbestos, steatites, 
and calcareous spar : the green colour is generally 
caused by the steatites, the red by the red re- 
splendent hornblende, and the brilliant specks are 
the talc and mica. In some rocks the separate 
crystals are upon a great scale, and the composition 
of the substance obvious, even to common observation. 
At Coterac, the resplendent hornblende and felspar 
occur as separate elements, of from one half to two, 
three, and four square inches in surface, and nothing 
can exceed the beauty of the combination. The 
felspar is of a bright white, or pale pink colour, the 
diallage of a deep red or green, and the talc a light 
fawn colour. The rock is spotted in the most beau- 



i 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 999 

tiful manner, and its arrangements el^^ant and ftn^ 
tastic, and contrasted with the columnar arrange* 
ment, as its tints are with the uniform tints of the 
syenite below. From these large crystals there is a 
gradation to the smallest, till the rock becomes in ap* 
pearance compact and uniform. The cliffi at Kin- 
nance exhibit all the varieties of serpentine, and all 
its most beautiful colours and combinations, both in a 
minute and on a grand scale. Rocks of from 200 to 
SCO feet in height form its boundaries; numerous 
islands are interspersed in the bosom of the bay ; 
caverns of the most beautiful kind occur, having a 
floor of the purest and most ^arkling white sand ; 
the lustre of the rock, polished by the sea, approaches 
to that of the metals, and the scene has in it the cha- 
racter of something above nature, and connected with 
supernatural agency and beings.'^ 

These two rocks, the granite and serpentine of his 
native county, were, I believe, the first he studied 
when he commenced the pursuit of geology, and both 
of them were to him particularly attractive; the 
granite in its grand forms, and the serpentine in its 
forms of beauty. The finest examples of these rocks 
were within a day's ride of Penzance ; and when he 
visited home, a young man, he never failed paying 
the Lizard and the Land's End a visit, and generally 
in company with some of his old schoolfellows. I 
remember, when a boy, being allowed to join one oi 
these parties to the Land's End, and it was a merry 
one, as youthful parties commonly are. Afler ex* 
plorii^ the cliff scenery, we dined at a tavern at 
St Just, and I well recollect the boisterous mirth in* 
dulged in after the repast was concluded, and the 



800 MEMOIRS OF THE I^IFE. OF 

wine Md circulated ; the gymnastic feats attempted ; 
the shouts of applause, the unconstrained laughter, 
and all that abandonment of spirit to mirth so com- 
mon in young persons under excitement, and which, 
excepting in youth, can scarcely be felt or enjoyed. 
- Fond of his native county, he took a lively interest 
in every thing that regarded its welfare, and was very 
desirous of seeing improvements introduced into it. 
The 15th section in the scheme of the " Sketches of 
Cornwall" indicates this. He was desirous that a, 
school of mines should be established there, similar to 
those which have been long founded in Germany, 
and are there so useful in forming enlightened miners, 
by the aid of a happy union of theoretical and prac-, 
tical knowledge. He witnessed with pleasure the 
institution of. a geological society in Cornwall, and 
he most willingly afforded it his aid, both by a dona* 
tion of money, and a present of a collection of some 
value of specimens of the products of Vesuvius, and 
by a contribution to its Transactions. * This paper 
was entitled " Hints on the Geology of Cornwall.*' It 
is the only paper he ever wrote for publication on a 
geological subject, and it contains some valuable 
theoretical views. 

During his summer and autumn excursions, occa- 
sions often occurred to excite into activity his poeti- 
cal temperament and powers, as is shown by the 
versus which remain, written at the moment, embody- 
ing the sentimients called up by the scene or event. 
Two specimens of these verses have been already 
given, and I, shall give some others expressive of his 
manner of viewing nature, bis love of home, and the 
kindly and lofty tone of his mind. 

^ ' ' ♦ * Vol. i. p. 38* et seq, ' 



sin HUMPHRY DAVV. SOI' 

The following lines, I believe, w^re writtetl on his 
first visit to the Western Islands ; they may give plea- 
sure to the individuals whose kindness and virtues he 
commemorates, or their descendants : — 

" Whoever^ glowing with the holy love 
Of wild magnificence of ample form. 
Has visited these islands^ where, upraised 
Ahove the vast Atlantic, holdly stand 
The giant monuments of elder time. 
The pillar'd caves of Staffk, and the rocks 
Of fair lona, let him kindly bless 
That peacefiil and that hospitable shore. 
Where stands the House of Ulva ; for its halls 
Are graced by virtue, elegance, and taste. 
By social joy and welcome from the heart. 
In them the weary traveller finds repose, * 

And quits them with r^ret and gratitude." 

The next lines, relative to his birthplace, occur 
detached, and are a mere fragment : — 

• » 

** There di{L I first rejoice that I was bom 
Amidst the majesty of azure seas^ 
Surrounded by the everlasting form 
Of mighty rocks, on which alike the waves 
And the harsh fury of the storms of heaven 
Beat innocent. Eternally allied 
Pleasure and hope connected with the scene 
Infix'd its features deeply ; and my mind, ^ 

Growing in strength, vrith livelier zeal \ 

Still looked on Nature." 



The following little poem, as stated in the heading 
to it, was "written in the coach, December 25. 1803, 
passing from Bath to Clifton *' : — 

*^ When in life's first golden mom, 
I left my stormy native shore. 
My pathway was without a thorn. 
With roses it seemM covered o'er. 

" Ambition thrill'd vnthin my breast. 

My heart with feverish hope beat high ; 
Hope alone disturb'd my rest, j 

Hope only bade me heave a sigh, . 



SO^ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

^' In pride ^ untried power niy mind 
A yinonarj empire saw^ — 
A world, in which it hoped to find 
Its own high strength a matter law. 

*' Its lore was wild, its friendship free. 
Its passions changeful as the light 
That on an April day we see, — 
Changeftd, and yet ever bright. 



t€ 



€€ 



€€ 



Years of pain have pass'd away. 
Its former lineaments are gone ; 

Hope gives it now a gentler ray. 
Ambition rules it not alone. 

The forms of holy truth severe 

Are the fair thoughts with which it glows; 
And if it ever feels a tear. 

That tear in purest passion iiows. 

Fled is its anguish, and its joys 
Are such as reason may approve; 

No storms its quietness destroys. 
Yet is it ever warm with love. 

'^ Its pleasures Fate and Nature give. 
And Fate and Nature will not fly ; 
It hopes in useflilness to live. 
In dreams of endless bliss to die." 



The next stanzas were written in 1806, on two 
mountains mentioned more than once in the journal 
of his Irish tour, as forming grand and peculiar 
features in the scenery : — 

*' Mucrish and Arokil, ye pair 
Of mighty brethren, riring fair 

Amidst the summer evening's weetem lig^t ; 
Clouds might ye be, so bright your hue. 
So dense your purple in the blue 

That ushers in the night, 



€€ 



Were ye not motionless ; your fonns 
Unchsnged by breezes or by storms. 

The same from day to day, from age to age, 
Unalter'd midst the wrecks of time. 
Scorning in giant strength sublime 

The whirlwind's and the lightning's rage. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 308 



« Snmmer'i wild heatliUMti^ 
Disturb not your supreme xepoee : 

Not the mild influence of springj 
Clothing the lowlands all in gteeoj 
Creating round a joyftd scene 
Of change to you can bring. 



€€ 



Not e'en the purple heath expands 
Its foliage o'er your bUnched sands ; 

Your rocks alone the yellow lichen covers. 
In palest tints, and o'er the space ye own. 
No shapes of life are known. 

Save where the ea^e hovers. 

*' His screams, the mountain torrents' sound. 
The mountain breeies whistling round. 

The distant murmurs of the western wave, 
Compose the music wild and rude 
Of your unhaunted aoUtttde, 

Else silent as the grave. 

" The glens that ranged around your feet 
In grand confusion seem to meet. 

As with your parts to harmonise. 
While they your fountains drink. 
In kindred wildness shik 

As ye in wildness rise." 

I shall give one more little poem (it is a fragment) 
connected with his Irish tour^ written on Fair Head, 
displaying his habitual feeling and admiration of 
nature, and philosophic mode of blending perception 
and reflection. It is taken from Dr. Paris's work, to 
which it was contributed by Mn Greenough, who 
was his companion in these travels. 

^' But, chiefly thee. Fair Head ! 
Unrivall'd in thy form and mijesty ! 
Far on thy loftiest summit I have walked 
In the hright sunshine, while heneath thee roll'd 
The clouds in purest splendour, hiding now 
The ocean and his islands, parting now 
As if reluctantly ; whilst full in view 
The Uue tide wildly roll'd, skirted with foam. 
And hounded by the green and smiling land. 
The dim pale mountains and the purple sky. 



8&amp;4 MEMO^IRi bF THE llPE OF 

Majeslle diff f tliou' btrih of unknown time, 
Long had the billows beat thee^ long the waves 
Rush'd o*er thy hoUow'd rocks^ ere life adom'd 
Thy broken surface^ ere the yellow moss 
Had tinted thee^ or the wild dews of heaven 
Clothed thee with verdure^ or the eagles made 
Thy caves their aery. So in after time 
Long shalt thou rest unalter'd mid the wreck 
Of all the mightiness of human works ; 
For not the lightning, nor the whirlwind's force. 
Nor an the waves of ocean^ shall prevail 
Against thy giant strength, and thou shalt stand 
Till the Almighty voice which bade thee rise 
ShaU bid thee faU." 



After the relaxation of the country, he always 
returned to London, in improved health and vigour, 
and with renovated zeal in the cause of science. 
His mixed feelings, on these occasions, are vividly 
described by himself in his last work. 

" In my youth and pride of manhood (he says), 
I never entered London, without feelings of pleasure 
and hope. It was to me as the grand theatre of 
intellectual activity ; the field of every species of en- 
terprise and exertion ; the metropolis of the world 
of business, thought, and action. There I was sure 
to find the friends and companions of my youth, to 
hear the voice of encouragement and praise. There 
society of the most refined kind offered daily its 
batiquets to the mind, with such variety, that satiety 
had no place in them ; and new objects of interest 
and ambition were constantly exciting attention 
either in politics, literature, or science.** 

It was then, in the latter end of autumn, and the 
beginning of winter, before the opening of the Insti- 
tution, that he generally applied himself with the 
greatest assiduity to his favourite pursuit of experi- 
menting, and this was the period of some of his 



SIR riUMPHRT DAVT# 305 

most successful labours, which have been recorded 
in the Bakerian Lectures, that for five years succes- 
sively he delivered to the Royal Society, viz, from 
1806 to 1810. The results of these and his other 
investigations, from the time that he published his 
&lt;&lt; Researches/' in 1800, require particular consi* 
deration. 



VOL. I. 



806 M£M01RS OF THE JAVt OF 



CHAPTER V. 

• . i 

BKWrCB OP HU 8GISNTIFI0 PUB8UITB BETWEEN 1800 AND 1807* PART 

OF A LBOTVBB OF HIS 8HOWINO THE PROOBE88 OF ELEGTBICAL DI»- 

OOYXBT. EXTBAOT FBOM HIS LAST BAKBBIAN LEOTUBE ON THE 

SAME SUBJECT^ IN VINDICATION OF HIB BIOHT&amp; — NOTICE OF HIS FIB8T 
BAKBBIAN LEOTUBE. 

In noticing my brother's scientific labours, I shall 
avoid minute details ; I shall endeavour, in as brief 
a manner as possible, to point out the most remark- 
able parts of them, those most interesting in relation 
to the progress of discovery, and most characteristic 
of the powers of his mind. Whenever an opportu- 
nity offers, I shall have recourse to his lectures, and 
give his own narrative of events. The scientific 
reader who wishes for fiill information, and to follow 
him step by step in his researches, I must refer to 
the Philosophical Transactions, and to his published 
works. 

During the period we are now considering, namely, 
from 1800 to 1807, his attention was directed to a 
great variety of objects of inquiry, but more parti- 
cularly to the following : — 1st, Galvanism, and 
electro-chemical science, which, chiefly under his 
cultivation, sprang from galvanism. 2d, The inves- 
tigation of astringent vegetables in connection with 
the art of tanning. 3dly, The analysis of rocks and 
minerals, in connection with geology. And, 4thly, 
the comprehensive subject of agricultural chemistry. 

We have seen that he commenced the study of 



f 

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. SOff 

chemistry in the latter end of 1797 ; ^d it appeaiis 
that about the same time, or very soon after, he 
applied himself to electricity ; for in a paper, pub* 
lished in Nicholson's Journal for 1805, containing 
** Notices concerning some Philosophical Apparatus*,? 
he alludes to electrical researches, in which he was 
engaged in 1798 ; and it is worthy of remark, that 
even then, when he must have been a novice in the 
science, not satisfied with merely learning what was 
known, he immediately applied himself to original 
inquiry, and invented an electrical battery, in which 
talc was substituted for glass, on the principle esta^- 
blished by Mr. Cavendish, that the capacity of a 
substance for an electrical charge is cateris paribus 
inversely as its thickness. 

The same bias towards original research even 
more strongly showed itself on his resuming his elec- 
trical inquiries in 1800. That year is remarkable 
for the great invention which bears the name of its 
author — the Voltaic pile or battery — and for the 
accidental observation of the decomposition of water 
by means of it ; or, to express the fact simply, the 
separation of water under its agency into oxygen and 
hydrogen. This very remarkable efiect of the pile 
of Volta, which Messrs. Nicholson and Carlisle had 
the merit of first noticing, immediately impressed 
powerfully the mind of my brother. He saw in it 
the connection between galvanism and chemistry ; he 
expected that it might prove a link between the pon- 
derable and imponderable substances; and he had 
prophetic warnings that it was a passage to a new 
world of discovery. He was at that moment in- 

* NichoUon'd Jounufl^ vol. v. p«dlO. 

X 2 



90S MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

tensely occupied in completing and preparii^ fx 
pnhUcation his researches on nitrous oxide. As soon 
as he was free from this labour^ he entered on the 
new inquiry, and prosecuted it with an ardent zeal, 
of which the papers he published on the subject are 
a proof; though less forcible than his note books, in 
whiich a vast number of experiments are recorded, 
either as agenda or acta, in rapid succession. 

That the reader may have before him a connected 
view of the progress of electrical discovery, I shall 
-insert from a lecture in MS. (part of a course for 
1810, on electrical science) a sketch of its history, 
with some additional details of the same kind from 
his Bakerian Lecture for 1826. A great part of the 
first mentioned is a popular view, and may interest 
the general reader f and I offer it as another specinien 
of his iotianner of lecturing to a mixed audience. 

He commences with observing, " That an histo- 
rical view may be useful, as offering a kind of map 
of the science, and of the roads by which it has been 
explored.** 

" In a sketch of this kind," he continues, " and 
in the time allotted for it, I shall not be expected to 
produce a minute history of all the various insulated 
experiments that have been made. My endeavour 
will be rather to fix your attention upon the leading 
and ^and discoveries, which form the epochs of 
the science. The brilliancy of electrical phenomena, 
and the facility of producing them, led an immense 
number of. inquirers into this field of research. 
JV^any have developed new objects in it, but a very 
few only have ascertained principles ; and in philoso- 
phical annals the fame of subordinate improvers is 
necessarily absorbed in that of the noble inventorsy 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 309 

as in military details the worth of the common soldier 
and of the subaltern is, as it were» swallowed up in 
the glory of the general.** 

The first epoch of electrical science must be re- 
ferred to the time of Gilbert, and his views are de- 
veloped in the " Treatise de Magnete,** published in 
]600. The ancients were acquainted with two 
electrical bodies only — amber, eTaxTpov, which has 
given the denomination of the science ; and lyncu« 
rium, which is either the topaz or tourmaline. Gilbert 
ascertained that a great variety of substances are ca- 
pable of being excited,— as glass, sealing wax, resins, 
gums, and most of the earthy and stony bodies ; 
and that their electricity was impaired by moist air 
and aqueous fluids, but not by oily and resinous sub* 
stances ; and he supposed electrical attraction to be 
a general property of matter, and thus contrasted 
with magnetic attraction, which was peculiar to bodies 
cx)ntaining iron. 

*^ His work is worthy of being studied, and I am 
surprised that an English edition of it has never been 
published. Gilbert was a man above his age ; in his 
own times, his philosophy was little attended to, and 
one reason why it was neglected in later periods 
IS the singular reproach thrown upon it by the 
great father of modem experimental philosophy. 
* Men,* (says he, in his book • De Augmentis 
Scientiarum,*) are continually carrying too far theii^ 
own favourite theories, and endeavouring to accom* 
plish every thing by their own peculiar arts. Thus; 
Plato has made all philosophy, theology ; Aristotle, 
logic ; and Proclus, mathematics ; following thes6 
sciences as their first*bom children, and making 
them their heirs to the exclusion of all others. So 

X 3 



310 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

die chemists explain all things by the processes of the 
fireplace and the furnace ; and our countryman, 
Gilbert, has attempted to raise a general system upon 
the magnet, endeavouring to build a ship out of ma- 
terials not sufficient to make the rowing pins of a 
boat.' In another place he treats the important 
electrical facta which Gilbert had discovered as 
fables. The illustrious critic of the sciences was oc- 
casionally misled by his zeal for the destruction of 
prejudices and false opinions, and by his contempt 
for the absurdities of the ancient schools. Anxious to 
build up his own great edifice with his own materials 
and by his own strength, he refused ^11 assistance ; 
and, the founder of a new and grand philosophy, he 
scorned to blend either the facts or the opinions of 
others with what he conceived to be peculiarly his 
own work. Confident of greatness, and looking with 
a steadfast eye towards the creations of his own noble 
genius, he did not fully see the merit of others ; as 
in the meridian light of our own sun we cannot 
perceive the stars, which are, nevertheless, the suns 
of other systems. No one can exceed me in admir- 
ation of this great man ; and it is with a feeling of 
humility that I venture to say, that his reproach 
of Gilbert is unjust. Gilbert undoubtedly consi- 
dered the earth as endowed with magnetic poles, 
and this is now acknowledged as a truth. He per- 
fectly and most accurately distinguished between 
magnetic and electrical attraction ; and he supposed 
by a singular felicity of induction, and with a kind 
pjf prophetic sagacity, that the motions of the hea- 
venly bodies might depend upon a peculiar gravi- 
tation! or attractive power. He was far from pos- 
sessing an unwarrantable spirit of . generalisation. 
In his Latin preface, he says, in words which may be 



)SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. Sit 

thus trilnslatedi * My object is to arrange ' facts^ 
founded on trials of the properties of natural things, 
and to give to my subject demonstrations similar to 
those adopted in geometry, which, on the most 
simple foundation, raises the most magnificent works ; 
^hich, by a few propositions, founded on the pro? 
perties of things belonging to the earth, enables thq 
mind to comprehend the structure of the heavenSi; 
I renounce all subtleties connected with letters. I 
depend upon things which may be made evident to 
the senses, things which may be easily tried : and 
nothing in this treatise has been done in haste ; every 
experiment has been carefully repeated.' * 

* Gilbert not unfrequently breaks out in reprobating the gebolaatic 

manner of philosophising in terms even more severe than Bacon was Iq 

the haint of- using. Thus he begins his tenth chapter^ " Deploranda est 

humana in rebus naturalibus insdtia, et tamquam in tenebris somniante^ 

exdtandi sunt modemi Philosophi, et ad verum usuih et tractationem 

edncendi^ ab otiosa ex libris quesita doetrina probabilium rationuirf 

Bugamentis et oonjecturis tantum sufiulta/' And, with the same f&lt;^^ 

ing in another place^ he justly remarks, ^* Facile est hominibus ingenio 

acutis^ absque experimentis'et uau rerum }M et errari/* P. 52. Trae« 

tatus, sive Physiologia Noya de Magnete. Sedini, 4to. l633. And, in 

a posthumous work, '* De Mundo nostro sublunari Philosophia Nova," 

in several places he expresses himself na less strongly to the same effect! 

Thn^, at p. 5., speaking of the influence of Aristotle and €hden on tho 

schools, he says, " Tunc omnes in hsc verba jurare oportuit, tunc a4 

rdigionis normam docendi et disserendi forma i^acta est, et mandatuni 

has etiam juventuti nugas offerre, aingulasque bonarum literarum scholas 

decretum intravit, ipse dixit, Aristoteles dixit. Galenas didt, exivit 

^fidpulus quid diceret instnictus ; quid fecerit ignorans plane et inscius.*^ 

And^ again, at p. 74., after noticing some of the different defimtions and 

acooimtB of the elements by the ancient philosophers, he remarks,; '^ Itf 

varie etiam actum de definitione elementi, non minore contentione quam 

de dementis ipsis et nutaaero ipaorum ; falsse eninti supporitiones infini- 

taa gignunt.garmlitatfs/' This work ef Gilbert's,. which is so littlt 

known, is a very remarkable one, both in style and matter ; and there 

is a yigour' and energy of expression belonging to it very suitable to it6 

originality. Possessed of a more minute and practical knowledge of 

natural philosophy than fiacon, his opposition to the philosophy of the 

schools was more searching and particular^ and at die time probably 

titHe less efficient. 

X 4 • 



Hl^ MEMOIRS OF THS LIFE OF 

^* About fifty years after Gilbert, Boyle, and Hooke# 
and Otto de Guerike, pursued the subject of eleo 
tricity ; and Otto de Guerike erected tlie first elec- 
trical machine, which was a globe of sulphur whirled 
upon an axis, and rubbed against the hand. Hawks- 
bee, in 1709» substituted globes and cylinders of 
glass for the globe of sulphur ; and has described in 
the Philosophical Transactions, and in his physico- 
mechanical experiments, a great number of the lu* 
minous phenomena of electricity. 

*« The electrical efiects at this time were, however, 
referred to no general principle, and they were ex- 
plained by different inquirers in very difierent man- 
ners, and attributed either to rude mechanical causes^ 
or to some occult specific qualities of the difierent 
bodies exhibiting them. This, at first view, appears 
wonderful ; for in the beginning of the eighteenth 
century the methods of philosophical research at- 
tained their highest degree of perfection, and the 
public mind, generally speaking, seems to have been 
in that happy state in which the imagination and ao 
tivity of youth are, as it were, chastened by the 
correctness and sagacity of manhood. But the rea« 
son seemed to be, that the objects of the philosophy 
&lt;^ the Newtonian school absorbed for at least half 
a century all the attention of scientific men. The 
grand laws of the system of the universe came upon 
the understanding with that kind of effect which the 
new sensations of vision produce on the blind re- 
ceiving sight The mathematical theory of philo- 
sophy and astronomy, the laws of light, and the 
motions of the heavenly bodies^ were the universal 
topics of discussion and admiration. 

*' It is not a little remarkable that the first facttxna* 
municated by Newton to the Royal Society was an 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. SlS 

electrical experiment, and that the trtjKh^'of 1iis 
statement was doubted by some of the members bf 
that illustrious body. The secretary was ordered to 
write to him to relate its failure. They were sa- 
tisfied by the answer, which, however, proved that 
the young philosopher was ofibnded by their doubts 
of his accuracy. If they had persisted in a mistake, 
it is not impossible that a disgust might have been 
produced fatal to the cause of science, for it was 
the connection of Newton with the Royal Society 
^hich induced him to bring forward and publish his 
iirorks. Equally distinguished by modesty as by ex- 
alted genius, he pursued science, because his spirit 
was imbued with an ardent love of truth and an in- 
satiable desire of knowledge. His ardour could not 
hate been damped by opposition ; but his love of 
quiet might have led him to avoid controversy: 
But it is in vain to speculate upon what might have 
taken phice. He was surely destined for the grea^ 
purpose which he accomplished, — toexhibit the dig4 
niiy of the human mind ; its wonderful resources ;' 
aai to show the magnificence and simplicity of 
nature. 

''The second epoch of electrical science cannot 
faidy be placed further back than 1730, the time hi 
which Stephen Grey and Du Fay commenced their 
labiurs. Mr. Gre3r^s papers may be found in the 
Phiosophical Transactions from I7SO to 174«0. Grey 
gave up his whole mind to the inquiry, and pursued 
it wth his whole heart He multiplied his. experi-r 
metts with indefatigable industry, and, through a^ 
peritd of nine years, his papers occupy a consider- 
able place in the Philosophical Transactions of ^ the 
fioydSodety. i 



j314 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

** Amidst a great number of unconnected facts and 
observations, two discoveries of prime importance 
occur, — the power of electrified bodies to commu- 
nicate their influence to other bodies, and the dis* 
tinction between conductors and non-conductors. 
Mr. Grey discovered the insulating apparatus, and 
was the first person who rendered metals, water, and 
the human body electrical by communication with 
excited instruments. Grey was a great benefactor 
to the science ; but he was more distinguished for 
liveliness and perseverance of research than for 
accuracy and strength of thought. His facts are 
infinitely more valuable than his theories. Having 
little general knowledge of science, he erred in what 
may be called the critical philosophy of his subject ; 
and attempted to explain gravitation, and other re- 
condite powers of matter, by delusive electrical ex- 
periments. Thus affording an instance of the truth 
of that capital dogma of Aristotle, that &lt;&lt; those who 
know only one thing find it easy to account for every 
thing." 

" Stimulated by the first discoverijBS of Mr. Grey, 
Monsieur Du Fay, intendant of the French king's 
gardens at Paris, entered upon the same plan, of 
investigation, repeated the dilSerent experiments 
made in England, and added to them vaiious new 
ones connected with brilliant and important results. 

** M. Du Fay was the first person who distinguished 
the two electricities under the names of resinous axxd 
vitreous, and he ascertained the very consideiable 
principle that \ bodies similarly electrified repel 
each other; but that bodies dissimilarly electrified 
attract each other.' His discoveries are published 
in eight memoirs, delivered to the Acadeny of 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 315. 

Sciences, and inserted in their History for 1733, L734/ 
— 1737- His writings display a truly philosophical- 
spirit. He has attempted, in all cases, to generalize 
on the phenomena, and patience and accuracy seem 
to have equally regulated his practical researches and. 
his speculative views. He refers to the known facts, 
to a few propositions ; and the germ of a good ele- 
mentary treatise may be found in his papers. He 
was an acute and sagacious observer, warped by few 
prejudices, led away by no fancies. 

" After the researches of Grey and Du Fay, nothing, 
that materially affected the progress of the investi- 
gation was ascertained till 17^9 the year of the dis- 
covery of the Leyden phial, which may be regarded 
as constituting the third epoch in the science. This 
extraordinary apparatus was first employed by the. 
Canon Von Kleist, of Kamin ; but a similar combin- 
ation was soon after invented by Cunaeus and 
Muschenbroeck, of Leyden. Kleist's form of the 
experiment was a phial held in the hand, having a 
nail in it; Muschenbroeck's form was a phial half filled, 
with water. Nothing in the history of electricity is 
more singular than the first accounts of the electrical 
shock, as given by these very feeble and imperfect- 
instruments, and the astonishment of the discoverers 
seems almost to have deprived them of their reason. 
Muschenbroeck, in his account of the experiment, 
written to Reamur, states, that * the effect from a 
small glass bowl was so violent, that he lost his 
breath and his sensation, and was two days before 
he recovered fi'om the effects of the blow and the 
terror ; and that he would not take a second shock 
for the whole kingdom of France.* It does not re- 
quire another example to demonstrate how much the 



516 MEMOIRS Of THE LIFE OF 

imagination- and the senses influence each other. 
Other philosophers, with a much more perfect and 
more powerful apparatus, repeated the experiment 
without any such terrible effects, and referred to the 
cowardice of the professor what was only the effect 
of his surprise. . 

• " No single philosophical discovery ever excited so 
much popular and scientific attention as this of the 
Leyden phial. The apparatus soon became an object 
of public exhibition ; and in the same year in which 
it was discovered, a number of itinerant experi- 
menters procured a livelihood in different parts of 
Europe by travelling from place to place, aiid show- 
ing the experiment. About the middle of the last 
century, an immense number of facts had been ascer- 
tained, and they were constantly accumulating, and 
some principles had been developed ; but a general 
theory for connecting the insulated observations, and 
giving them the form of a body of science, was still 
wanting. The foundations for this theory were laid 
by the ingenuity and industry of our countrymany 
Dr. Watson ; the construction of it is owing to the 
sagacity of Dr. Franklin. Dr. Watson ascertained 
tiiat a communication with the ground is necessary 
for the production of a continued stream of electricity 
by the machine ; and hence he concluded that there 
is an afflux of electricity from the conducting bodies to 
the glass, and from the glass to the prime conductor. 
Thisidea was made known early in 1747&gt; and towards 
the middle of the same year Dr. Franklin transmitted 
his first letter on the subject to Mr. Collinson, con- 
taining an account of experiments and observations 
on electricity^made at Philadelphia. In this letter^ 
and in several subsequent letters, in a correspondence 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT* 817 

that continued till 1774» he brought forward those 
enlightened ideas of the subject which have been so 
generally admired, under the name of the Franklinian 
Theory. Dr. Franklin proved that the conductor in 
contact with the rubber of the electrical machine 
had an opposite electricity from that of the great con«» 
ductor ; that the outside and the inside of the Ley- 
den phial were likewise in opposite states, and that 
an equilibrium was made by their mutual agency: 
and he referred all the phenomena to the redundancy 
or deficiency of a single fluid. The experiments ad- 
duced by Dr. Franklin in support of his hypothesis 
were most ingeniously contrived and happily exe« 
cuted. A singular felicity of induction guided all 
his researches, and by very small means he established 
very grand truths. The style and manner of his 
publication are almost as worthy of admiration as the 
doctrines it contains. He has endeavoured to remove 
all mystery and obscurity from the subject ; he has 
written equally for the uninitiated and for the philo^ 
sopher ; and he has rendered his details amusing as 
well as perspicuous — elegant as well as simple. 
Science appears in his language in a dress wonder** 
fully decorous, the best adapted to display her native 
loveliness. He has in no case exhibited that false 
digoity by which philosophy is kept aloof from com- 
mon applications, and he has sought rather to make 
her a useful inmate and servant in the conunon ha» 
bitations of man, than to preserve her merely as an 
object of admiration in temples and palaces. The 
theory of negative and positive electricity was soon 
Daadfi by M. ^pinus, of the Academy of Petersburgh, 
the subject of mathematical illustration ; and this pro* 



I 



SI 8 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

found algebraist has submitted a great variety of the 
conditions of electrical action to calculation, assuming 
as his data an attraction between the electrical fluid 
and common bodies, and an excess or deficiency of 
the fluid, or of the matter over which it is difiused. 
• ** A more popular, and not less refined, view of the 
same doctrine was soon after furnished by Mn Ca« 
vendish, who has combined delicacy of physical ex« 
periment with elucidations derived from the higher 
branches of mathematical science, and whose re- 
searches in electricity have the same exalted character 
as those in the other departments of natural philo* 
sophy. 

' '&lt; The magnificent efiects produced by the accumu-* 
lation of electricity by large machines and jars soon 
led philosophers to reason from artificial concerning 
natural processes. Such an influence it was impos- 
sible to conceive passive in the external world, and 
the most striking analogies soon led to the discovery 
of its most obvious operations. Dr. Stukely and the 
Abb6 NoUet had observed the similarity between the 
electrical spark and lightning and the report of thun- 
der ; but Dr. Franklin was the first philosopher ^who 
conceived the bold idea of bringing lightning from 
the clouds,— who first imagined that by pointed con- 
ductors, charged electrical clouds might be made 
harmless, and the matter of the thunderbolt quietly 
conveyed from the atmosphere to the earth. The 
simple apparatus of a school-bo/s kite, held by means 
of a silk handherchief attached to a hempen string, 
with a key for a conductor, enabled him, in June, 
1752, to verify the grand idea. The practical appli^ 
cation soon followed, and, what rarely happens, the 



SIR HUMPHRY BAV\% 319 

^me philosopher had the glory of discovering a 
noble principle in nature, and of making it of public 
utility.* 

&lt; &lt;&lt; The simple path once opened, a great number of 
philosophers immediately engaged in the inquiry con-^ 
eeming atmospherical electricity, and a general and 
copious account of their researches may be found iff 
Priestley's history. 

^^ Beccaria and Canton determined the influence of 
charged strata of air in the phenomena of lightning ; 
and the Italian philosopher made a number of appli-, 
cations of theory to the nature of clouds, the affections 
of the winds, the aurora borealis, and other appear- 
ances. Experiments on thunder storms were pursued 
by a variety of persons with great zeal, and sometimes 
with too little caution, when it is considered what an 
intractable and powerful agent was concerned in 
the operations* Amidst such a variety of trials in 
different parts of Europe, only one serious accident 
happened, and but one victim fell in the dangerous 
field of research. Professor Rickman, of Petersburgh, 
was examining the electricity of a thunder cloud by 
means of a new instrument, which he called an elec-^ 
trical gnomon ; the experiment was fatal : a discharge 
took place with a loud explosion, and the philosopher 



* M. Ar^o^ in his Eloge Hittorique of Volti, publiahed in the 54th 
Tolame of Annales de Chimie and de Physique^ gives credit to Dr. Wall 
in 1708&gt; and to Stephen Grey in 1735^ for the earliest conjectures re- 
speeting the electrical nature of the phenomena of the thunder storm ; 
Init the analogy 'Vjrhich these ingenious inquirers hinted at was so vague^ 
that it might almost be considered poeticiJ : the authors themselves at- 
tached no importance to it, nor appear to have given it a second 
thought, and which certainly had been passed over by posterity as 
trifling had not a kind of importance more than due been given to their 
expressionB by the great discovery of Franklin. 



990 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

fell instantly dead, immortalised as the first and the 
only martyr to the science. 

" In 1774 a new electrical inquiry was brought for* 
ward by Mr. Walsh. The powers of the torpedo 
and gymnotus to give shocks had been loi^ known. 
This gentleman proved, by the most satisfactory ex- 
perimentSy that the effect was electrical. And Mr* 
Cavendish contrived to imitate the electricity of these 
fishes, by a number of Leyden jars, weakly charged 
The electrical organs, dissected by the celebrated 
John Hunter, were found to be composed of columns 
of muscular and membranous substances furnished 
with large nerves ; and it seems exceedingly probable 
that the electricity is excited, as in other cases^ by 
contact, and accumulated by induction. ^ In present- 
ing the Copley medal to Mr. Walsh, as a testimony 
of the approbation of the Royal Society of these his 
discoveries. Sir John Pringle, then president, in the 
speech made on the occasion, entered into some 
noble views, in which there are striking hints of later 
discoveries ; and after stating that there may be still 
found out new and more powerful modes of exciting 
electricity, and of submitting bodies to its operation, 
he concludes in his usual animated manner : &lt; But 
whether this will be the individual effect or not, phi- 
losophy, by these curious and successful researches, 
has made a valuable acquisition, since we may be 
assured that whatever tends to disclose the causae 
rerum^ the secret laws of nature, cannot ultimately 
fail of subjecting her, more or less, to the uses of 

* The existence of muscular substance in the electrical organs of the 
torpedo it more than doubtfiil. Vide my paper on the subject in the 
PhiL Trans, for 1832, where the question is discussed. 



SIR fiCMPHRY DAVY. 32 1 

life, and of manifesting, more and more, the wisdom 
and power of the Creator in all his works. This 
animal served them (meaning the ancients) for an 
emblem or hieroglyphic, for a figure of speech, or an 
rilusion of pleasantry, — at best, as a theme for a copy 
of verses. But the world, rising in years and in wis- 
dom, rejects such trifles. The interpreters of nature, 
in the adult state of time, make experiments and 
inductions, distrust their intellects, confide in facts 
and in their senses ; and by these arts drawing aside 
the veil of nature, find a mean and grovelling animal 
armed with lightning — that awful and celestial fire 
revered by the ancients as the peculiar attribute of 
the father of their gods ?* 

" After this period, which may be considered as the 
fourth epoch of the science, for several years elec- 
trical science may be said to have slept, or, at least, 
not to have been distinguished by any grand ad- 
vances. This was the great era of chemical dis- 
covery, and philosophical minds were fully busied 
with other* important investigations. Electricity 
seemed as if nearly exhausted as to all sources of 
grand discovery j and the love of glory, as well as 
love of novelty, led ardent inquirers into the exten- 
sive and uncultivated field of pneumatic research. 

" Whilst the discoveries concerning the gases were 
pursued, no other improvements were made in elec- 
tricity than a few connected with the construction of 

• 

instruments ; and a mere accidental circumstance led 
to the pursuit of that novel branch of the inquiry 
which, for the last eighteen years, has been so won- 
derfidly extended, and elucidated under the^^name of 
galvanism. It had long been known, and the then 
recent discoveries made by Vassal! had shown, that 

VOL. I. Y 



S^ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

common electricity produced contractions in the 
limbs of animals just deprived of life. Galvani, pro- 
fessor of natural philosophy at Bologna, in 1789» 
happened, in some physiological experiments, to 
touch the crural nerve of a dead frog with a knife ; 
violent contractions were produced in the leg: he 
tried other metals with similar effects, and he found 
combinations of metals much more efficacious than 
simple metals. 

" The true discovery of Galvani was that of a deli- 
cate animal electrometer. The conclusion ought to 
have been, that combinations of the metals were ren- 
dered electrical by contact. But ideas very remote 
from this were formed by Galvani and his followers. 
They conceived that the metals were merely con- 
ductors of an etherial fluid existing in the animal 
organs, and that this fluid was the cause of irritable 
action. Innumerable experiments were made by 
Humboldt, by Aldini, by Valli, to determine the 
laws by which it was governed. The highest phy- 
siological discoveries were anticipated; the func- 
tions of vitality were supposed to be capable of 
analysis ; and a spirit of generalisation was indulged 
in, romantic, and far removed from that of sound 
reason and unprejudiced investigation. 

'* The same year that Galvani made his observa- 
tions, Mr. Bennet showed that the metals gained 
electrical powers by contact or friction ; and he was 
enabled to determine this by means of an extremely 
delicate instrument of his own invention, in which 
gold leaf is exposed to the body examined, and in 
which, by particular artifices, the electricity is in- 
creased. 

** One of his simplest experiments was to touch a 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 323 

plate of copper with the blade of a knife, — an effect 
is found to be produced, in a slighter degree, similar 
to that produced by the friction of sealing-wax. This 
discovery, which contained the solution of the expe« 
riment of Galvani, was published in a distinct trea- 
tise, containing many curious electrical experiments 
in 1789 ; but it was neglected for ten years, till the 
singular phenomena comprehended under the name 
of galvanism began to occupy the public attention* 

'* Volta, in opposition to Galvani, and the advocates 
of the physiological hypothesis, always asserted that 
these phenomena were merely owing to the electri*^ 
city of the metals, and made still more decisive ex. 
periments than those of Mr. Bennet on the subject ; 
and this illustrious philosopher put the question be* 
yond doubt by the grand invention of the new elec- 
trical battery. 

" This noble invention, in which the powers of the 
electrical machine, the Leyden phial, and the organ 
of the gymnotus, are, as it were, combined and con- 
centrated, brought forward in the first year of a 
new century, forms the fifth, and not the least im- 
portant, epoch in electrical discovery; and it has 
the greater merit, as being the result of thought, and 
not of accident, — as being at once a demonstration 
of the principle of the author, and a novel and asto- 
nishing combination. 

" As it is to Volta that we owe the great progres- 
sion in the science, it is wholly inconsistent with the 
feeling of justice that the name of Galvani should be 
associated with his discoveries. Galvanism and gal* 
vanic batteries will, I trust, sipon become obsolete 
terms; and voltaic electricity and voltaic batteries 

Y 2 



S24 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

take their place. Let honour be given where honour 
is due, but let not the new and magnificent facts be- 
longing to the novel discoveries be associated with a 
name to which they bear no relation. Let not the 
accidental discoverer of an insulated phenomenon, 
which he was unable to explain, be placed before a 
philosopher, whose inventions were the result of com- 
bination, and whose views have uniformly been as 
sagacious as his experiments are accurate. 
' " Solids were, till the time of Volta, supposed to be 
the only substances which could be made electrical, 
or, as it was usually called, excited; but Volta 
showed that fluids are possessed of this property. 
One of his experiments was to All a cup of silver 
with a solution of liver of sulphur ; a leg of a frog 
made to touch both the silver and the solution under- 
goes violent contraction. 

" Even elastic fluids, — air, and probably all the dif- 
ferent gases, — are capable of exhibiting electrical 
effects. Thus, a strong stream of air forced against 
brass, connected with gold leaf, very sensibly affects 
it ; and, as far as we are able to judge, from the great 
collection of facts, all the substances in nature are 
capable of exhibiting the power. Its effects are, 
probably, as comprehensive as those of gravitation ; 
and when they are thoroughly understood, they will 
probably be found not less important 

" The voltaic battery was as an alarm-bell to experi- 
menters in every part of Europe ; and it served no 
less for demonstrating new properties in electricity, 
and for establishing the laws of this science, than as 
an instrument of discovery in other branches of 
knowledge; exhibiting relations between subjects 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 325 

before apparently without connection, and serving as 
a bond of unity between chemical and physical phi- 
losopby. 

" In so rich a harvest of discovery many were 
anxious to be partakers; and periiaps no equal 
period of philosophical history exhibits a more bril^ 
liant picture of the activity and power of the human 
mind, seeking for a new empire over the natural 
powers of things, than may be contemplated in the 
annals of the last eight years/' 

Let us now turn to the historical details which he 
has given in his Bakerian Lecture for 1 826 of this 
most interesting period ; details in which, whilst he 
vindicates his own invaded rights as a discoverer, he 
does ample justice to the rights of others : — * . 

&lt;&lt; As I am not acquainted with any work in which 
M and accurate statements on the origin and pro^ 
gress of electro-chemical science are to be found, 
stud as some very erroneous statements have been 
published abroad, and repeated in thi&amp; country, I 
shall take the liberty of laying before the Society a 
short historical sketch on this subject, which is^ the 
more wanted, as the Journal in which the early dis^ 
coveries were registered has long been discontinued, 
and is now little known or referred to. 

*^ As there are historians of chemistry and astro- 
nomy who date the origia of these sciences &gt; from 
antediluvian times, so there are not wanting persons 
who imagine the origin of electro-chemical science 
before the discovery of the pile of Volta ; and Ritter 
and Winterl have been quoted *, amongst other pei:.* 

* Derated^ translated by Marcel^ 1813. 

Y 3 



326 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

sons, as having imagined or anticipated the relation 
between electrical powers and chemical affinities be- 
fore the period of this great invention. But who- 
ever will read, with attention, Hitter's * Evidence 
that the Galvanic Action exists in Organised Nature,' 
and Winterl's * Prolusiones ad Chemiam Sasculi De- 
cimi Novi *,' will find nothing to justify this opinion. 
Ritter^s work contains some very ingenious and ori- 
ginal experiments on the formation and powers of 
single galvanic circles; and Winterl's some bold, 
though loose speculative views, upon the primary 
causes of chemical phenomena ; and in the obscurity 
of the language and metaphysics of both these 
gentlemen it is difficult to say what may not be 
found. In the ingenious though wild views, and 
often inexact experiments of Ritter, there are more 
hints which may be considered as applying to electro-* 
magnetism than to electro-chemistry ; and Winterl's 
miraculous * Andronia ' might, with as much pro- 
priety, be considered as a type of all the chemical 
substances that have been since discovered, as bis 
view of the antagonist powers, the acid and basic, 
can be regarded as an anticipation of the electro- 
chemical theory. The queries of Newton, at the 
end of his * Optics,* contain more grand and specu- 
lative views that might be brought to bear upon this 
question, than any to be found in the works of mo- 
dern electricians t ; but it is very unjust to the expe- 
rimentalists^ who, by the laborious application of new 
instruments, have discovered novel facts and analo- 
gies, to refer them to any such suppositions as, ' that 

* Jena, 1800. 

t See the eloquent observationB of Mr. Chenevix on Winteri's Theory^ 
Annales de Chimie, Cap. l. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 32? 

all attractions^ chemical, electrical, magnetic, and 
gravitative, may depend upon the same cause ; ' or 
to still looser expressions, in which different words 
are used, and applied to the same ideas, and in which 
all the phenomena of nature are supposed to depend 
on the dynamic system, or the equilibrium and oppo- 
sition of antagonist powers. 

&lt;^ The true origin of all that has been done in 
electro-chemical science was the accidental discovery 
of MM. Nicholson and Carlisle, of the decomposi- 
tion of water by the pile of Volta, April 30. 1800. * 
These gentlemen immediately added to this capital 
fact the knowledge of the decomposition of certain 
metallic solutions, and the circumstance of the separ- 
ation of alkali on the negative plates of the appara- 
tus. Mr. Cruickshank, in pursuing their experiments, 
added to them many important new results, such as 
the decompositions of muriates of magnesia, soda, 
and ammonia by the pile, and that alkaline matter 
always appeared at the negative and acid at the 
positive pole t ; and Dr. Henry, about the same time, 
made some unsuccessful attempts to decompose pot- 
assa in solution by the pile, and confirmed the general 
conclusions of MM. Nicholson, Carlisle, and Cruick- 
shank. In the month of September, in this year, I 
published my first paper on the subject of galvanic 
electricity in Nicholson's Journal, which was followed 
by six others t, the last of which appeared in January, 
1801. In these papers I showed that oxygen and 
hydrogen were evolved from separate portions oi' 
water, though vegetable and even animal substances 

* Nicholion's Joamsl, vol. iv. p. 183. 

t IWd. voL ir. p. 19O. 

t IWd. pp. 275. 326. 337. 380. 39^. 

Y 4^ 



3^^ MEMOIRS OF TH£ L1F£ OF 

mtetv^md ; aiid» conceiving that all 4ecomposilionB 
might be polar *, I electrised different compounds at 
the different extremities, and found that sulphur and 
metallic substances appeared at the negative pole, 
and oxygen and azote at the positive pole, though 
the bodies furnishing them were separate ^ from each 
other. In the same series of papers I established the 
intimate connection between the electrical effects 
and the cheoadcal changes going on in the pile, and 
drew the conclusion of the dependence of one upon 
the other. In 1802, I proved that galvanic dbmbin- 
ations might be formed from single metals, or char- 
coal and different fluids, chiefly acid and alkaline, 
and that the side or pole of the conducting substance 
in contact with the alkali was positive, and that in 
contact with the acid negative; and, in the same 
year, I published, that when two separate portions of 
water, connected by moist bladder or muscular fibre 
were electrised, nitro muriatic acid appeared at the 
positive and fixed alkali at the negative pole, t In 
the same year. Dr. Wollaston placed the identity of 
the cause of galvanism and electricity, which had 
been always maintained by Volta, out of all doubt, 
by some very decisive^ experiments. 

" In 1804, MM. Heisenger and Berzelius stated, 
that neutro saline solutions were decomposed by 
electricity, and the acid matter separated at the posi- 
tive and the alkaline matter at the negative poles ; 
aiid they asserted, that in this way muriate of lime 
might be decomposed ; and drew the conclusion, that 
nascent hydrogen was not, as had been generally 



* Journal of the Royal Institution^ 180^^ first series, 
t Ibid. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAYT, 329 

believedi the cause of the appearance of metals froth 
metalKc solutions. 

*^ These valuable observations ought to have ex-&gt; 
plained, distinctly, the source of the appearance of* 
acid and alkaline substances at the two extremities 
of the pile, yet the paper was never translated into 
English, nor at all attended to ; and one of the facts 
was contradicted by the assertion of, generally a very 
accurate observer, Mr. Cruickshank, who, in his early 
experiments, mentioned that he had not been able 
to decompose muriate of lime in the circuit* 

" In 1 805, various statements were made, both in 
Italy and England, respecting the generation of mu- 
riatic acid and fixed alkali from pure water. The 
fact was asserted by MM. Pachioni and Peele, and 
denied by Dr. WoUaston, M. Biot, and the Galvanic 
Society at Paris. Mr. Sylvester, who conducted his 
experiments with some care, stated that if two sepa- 
rate portions of water were electrised out of the con- 
tact of substances containing alkaline or acid matter, 
acid and alkali were generated ; so that, up to this 
time, the question whether these substances were 
liberated from their combinations, or formed from 
their elements by electricity, could not be considered 
as decided ; a circumstance not so much to be won- 
dered at, when the novel and extraordinary nature of 
the whole class of galvanic phenomena is considered. 

** It was in the beginning of 1806 * that I attempted 
the solution of this question ; and, after some months' 
labour, I presented to the Society the dissertation, to 
which I have referred in the beginning of this lec- 
ture. Finding that acid and alkaline substances, even 

♦ PhU. Trans. 1 807. 



330 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

when existing in the most solid combinations, or in 
the smallest proportions in the hardest bodies, were 
elicited by vdtaic electricity, I established that they 
were the results of decomposition, and not of compo- 
sition or generation ; and, referring to my experi- 
ments of 1800, and 1801, and 180g, and to a number 
of new facts, which showed that inflammable sub- 
stances, and oxygen, alkalies, and acids, and oxidable 
and noble metals, were in electrical relations of posi- 
tive and negative, I drew the conclusion that tJie 
combinations and decompositions by electricity were 
referabk to the law of electrical attractions and repul- 
sions ; and advanced the hypothesis, &lt; thai chemical 
and electrical attraction were produced by the same 
cause y acting in one case on particles^ in the other on 
masses ; ' and that the same property, under different 
modifications^ was the cause of all the phenomena ex* 
hibited by different voltaic combinatiofis.** 

Here it is necessary to pause. The dissertation 
just alluded to was his first Bakerian Lecture &lt;&lt; On 
some Chemical Agencies of Electricity,*' read to the 
Royal Society in 1806, which M. Berzelius calls &lt;&lt; un 
rapport qui doit etre rang6 parmi les meiUeurs me- 
moires dont on ait jamais enrichi la th6orie de la 
chimie *,*' which Dr. Thompson says " constitutes 
one of the most important contributions ever made 
to scientific chemistry t ; and for which, during a 
period of the most sanguinary war ever waged 
between England and France, a prize, founded by 
Napoleon for the most important discoveries in 

* Traits de Chimie^ par J. F. Berzelius ; tntduit par J. F. Jourdao. 
Paris, 1829. Vol. i. p. l64. 

t An Outline of the Sciences of Heat and Electricity^ by T. Thomp- 
son, M.D,, p. 535. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. SSI 

galvanism, was awarded its author by the Institute 
of France. 

If I may venture to express myself respecting 
this lecture, I would say that it is a striking instance 
of experimental and inductive philosophy, not less 
distinguished for caution and doubt in relation to 
what was doubtful, and for patience and ingenuity in 
investigating the sources of error, than for quickness 
in perceiving truth, and boldness in embracing it* 
And I would add, the results are an excellent ex- 
ample of the fruits of this philosophy ; not useless 
combinations of words, mere opinions, such as are 
derived from speculation, but new facts and prin- 
ciples ; and, in brief, a power gained, — a new science, 
electro-chemistry, — - which was to become a means 
for the further extension of science, and for dis« 
covering new and extraordinary facts. 

His own manner of considering electro-chemistry, 
in regard to speculation, was very characteristic of 
him. Not blinded by the brilliancy of the prospect 
of the apparent identity of electrical and chemical 
attraction, and not tempted beyond the bounds of a 
sound Iqgic by the remarkable discoveries which he 
made in conformity with this view, he always con- 
sidered it an hypothesis. Thus he spoke of it in his 
first Bakerian Lecture, and thus also in his last, when 
vindicating his claims to originality. I shall quote the 
passage, especially for the sake of the vindication : — 

*' Believing that our philosophical systems are ex- 
ceedingly imperfect (he says), I never attached much 
importance to this hypothesis (that chemical and elec- 
trical attraction were produced hy the same cause^ 
acting in one case on particles^ in the other on masses) ; 
but having forrtied it after a copious induction of 



98Si MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

fojctSf and having gained immediately by the appiieap 
tion of it a number of practical results^ and con^ 
sidaing myself as much the author of it as I was of 
the decomposition of the alkaUes, and having dev&amp;* 
loped it in an elementary work, as far as the present 
state of chemistry seemed to allow, I have never 
criticised or examined the manner in which different 
authors have adopted or explained it ; contented if^ 
in the hands of others, it assisted the arrangements 
of chemistry, or mineralogy, or became an instm^ 
ment of discovery. And having now given (he con* 
tinues) what, I believe, to be a faithful sketch of its 
origin, I shall not enter into an examination of those 
works which have induced me to make this sketchy 
and which contain partial or loose statements on the 
subject, and which refer the origin of electro-chemis- 
try to Germany, Sweden, and France, rather than to 
Italy or En^and, and which attribute some of the 
views of the science which I first developed to philo^ 
sophers, who have never made any claim of the kind, 
and who never could have made any, as their works 
on the subject were published many years afler. 

. This clear statement of facts, it might have been 
supposed, would have carried conviction along with it^ 
and would have set the question of originality respect^ 
ing this subject for ever at rest. But it has not had 
this. effect altogether ; and very lately, in more than 
oc^ instance, men of science, and even his countrymen, 
forgetful of his lab(Hirs, in describing the progress o^ 
di^nical discovery, and the develqpemeQt of electro* 
chemistry, have brought forward the names of 

• PhU. Trans. 1826, jp.SpO, 



SIB HUMPHRY DAVY, S88 

Heisenger and Berzelius as the discoverers of the 
electra^chemical principles, passing by entirely hini 
by whom they were, in reality, firmly established. 
Even Berzelius himself, I regret to see, io a recent 
work, has exposed himself to the same charge: 
Speaking of the pretended formation of acid and 
alkali in water, acted on by the voltaic battery, he 
says, &lt;&lt; Dans une s^rie d'exp^riences que je fis avec 
Heisenger, et que nous publi&amp;mes en 1803, nous 
parvinmes k d6montrer la veritable mani^re dont les 
choses se passent dans la pr6tendue fonnation d'acide^ 
et d'alkali, et k fsdre voir que tons ces ph^nomfenes 
dependent des lois g^n6rales, en vertu desquelles 
quand la pile se d^charge k travers des liquides, les 
corps combustibles, et les bases salifiables se rassem- 
blent autoUr du pole n6gatif, tandis que Toxigene et 
les acides vont se r6unir a pole positif. Trois ans 
apr^s Davy r6p6ta ces experiences avec de plus 
grand^ appareils, et prouva que cette loi s'applique 
jusqu'^ un d6gr6 dont on n'avoit encore eu aucun 
soup9on." • The truth is, that my brother's re- 
searches in 1806 were made quite independent, and 
without any knowledge of the observations of the 
Swedish philosophers, as he states, in alluding to them 
in his historical notice. He says, " These observ- 
ations were never quoted by any writer of the day 
on the pretended formation of muriatic acid and 
alkali ; and I was not acquainted with them till after 
my fundamental experiments were finished j and 
when, in drawing up an account of them, I looked 
back through the whole series of periodical public- 
ations to find accounts of experiments bearing upon 

f Traits de Chimie, par J. J. Berzdiiu, vol. i. p. l66. Paris, 1881. 



334 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

the same question^ and I believe I first directed the 
public attention to the value of these researches." • 

The Bakerian Lecture of 1806 owed nothing to the 
labours of these gentlemen, and it would have been 
in every respect as complete had they never been 
published ; but had this lecture been suppressed, a 
vast accession of knowledge would have been lost to 
the world. Electro-chemical science might never 
have been developed ; and all the discoveries and 
great advances in chemistry which followed might 
never have been made. 

Unless honour is bestowed with a strict justice 
and love of truth, the interests of science must suffer, 
and one of the strongest motives to scientilSc exertion 
— the love of honest fame -*- will be sapped and de* 
stroyed. 

* Phil. Trans. 1826, p. 388. note. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 335 



CHAPTER VI. 

SKETCH OF HIS SCIENTIFIC PURSUITS CONTINUED. — EXPERIMENTS ON 

ASTRINGENT VEOBTABLES AND TANNING. HIS ATTENTION TO AGRI* 

CULTURE^ AND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHES. -^ IS APPOINTED PROFBS- 
80R TO THE BOARD OF AGRICULTURE. — NOTICE OF HIS ELEMENTS 
OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. HIS GEOLOGICAL TIBWS IN CONNEC- 
TION WITH ELECTRO-CHBMISTRT. OTHER SCIENTIFIC LABOURS. EX* 

TRACTS FROM HIS NOTE BOOKS OF THIS PERIOD, IN VERSE AND PROSE, 
ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS. 

4 

My brother's other researches during this period 
now require consideration. 

Soon after his arrival at the Royal Institution, at 
the suggestion and by the desire of the managers, he 
gave his attention to tanning, with a view to the im^ 
provement of the practical part of the art. He 
entered upon the investigation with all his usual 
ardour ; visited tan-yards, cultivated the acquaintance 
of practical tanners (in one of whom, Mn Purkis, he 
had the good fortune to find a sincere friend, as well 
as an enlightened man), and made a large number of 
experiments in the laboratory. Indeed, the interest 
he took in the pursuit could hardly have been keener 
had he made it his profession. This is expressed in 
a lively manner in the following passage of a letter 
to my mother. He says, " I saw Mr. William Bolitho 
and his two brothers-in-law yesterday, and they 
breakfast with me to-morrow. We are all fellows of 
the same craft ; they are great practical tanners, and 
I am a theoretical one. By the bye, I have ascer- 
tained some facts relating to tanning, which I hope 
will be really useful." 



836 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

The results of his inquiries in a collected form 
he communicated to the Royal Society in 1803, and 
they were published in the Philosophical Transactions 
for that year, with the title of " An Account of some 
Experiments and Observations on the Constituent Parts 
of certain Astringent Vegetables, and on their Opera- 
tion in Tanning/' It is a paper of much labour and 
minute research, and well deserving the notice, both 
of the scientific tanner, aiid of the chemical student 
entering upon the subject of animal and vegetable 
chemistry, and the application of them to the arts. 

In this inquiry, directed to the improvement of a 
very lucrative art, as in all his other inquiries, he 
appears to have had no view to profit, to have been 
under the influence of no mercenary motive, and to 
have been perfectiy satisfied with the pure rewards of 
science, — an increase of knowledge and reputation^ 
and power of being useful. One present, I believe, he 
had, not indeed in acknowledgment, but in proof of 
the able aid he gave the practical tanner ; which was 
a pair of shoes, one made of leather tanned by oak 
bark, in the old way, and the other by catechu, which 
he wore with much satisfaction, the catechu leather 
(the first that had ever been made) proving not in- 
ferior in quality to the oak-bark leather. 

About the same time that he entered upon the in- 
vestigation of tanning, he also turned his attention 
particularly to agricultural chemistry, and made it 
the subject of experimental research ; and such was 
the rapidity of his progress in this inquiry, that in 
1809 he was solicited and engaged by the Board of 
Agriculture to deliver a course of lectures to its 
members " On the Connection of Chemistry with 
Vegetable Physiology." 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. SSJ 

Hia rapid advance in the science of agriculture,; 
for so it may be called in connection with chemistry^ 
is more surprising in appearance than in reality, and 
is not difficult of explanation. , Even from childhood 
he was familiar with all the ordinary operations of 
farming ; and probably even before he commenced 
the study of chemistry, an interest had been excited 
in his mind towards agriculture, and he had become 
an observer. His father, as already noticed, was of a 
speculative turn of mind, and fond of, farming and 
gardening. He did not confine himself to routine 
methods in either, but made trials of new methods.. 
Amongst other experiments of his, of which I have 
heard mention, was one of watering grass meadows 
slightly with sea water, the result of which appears 
to have been favourable. Trials of this kind could 
not fail to have excited my brother's curiosity. 
Moreover, the region in which he spent his early 
youth was well adapted to keep alive and to 
heighten this feeling. The shores of the Mount's 
Bay and the adjoining country exhibit an extraor- 
dinary variety of surface, and some very striking 
contrasts of appearance of barrenness and of fertility* 
There, in a very small space, may be witnessed, within 
view of each other, the moving sand, the stagnant 
marsh, the grass meadow, corn-field, orchard, garden, 
and heath-covered moor, with almost every variation 
of soil capable of being produced by intermixture of 
the clays resulting from the decomposition of granite^ 
and the disintegration of killas with sea-sand, and 
the siliceous detritus of primitive rocks. In the same 
Uttle space may be witnessed on one side the fertilising, 
effects of substances derived from the sea, as sheik 
sand» sea- weed, and decayed fish» used as a manure $ 

VOL. I. z 



93S JdEMOIRS OF THE UF£ OF 

gnd, on the other side» the sterility consequent on the 
pperations of mining, and bow the products of the 
9unes» in different forms, are poisonous to, and de- 
structive of vegetation, whether in the state of rub* 
bifih scattered over the ground, or collected in heaps 
on the site of the mine appropriately called ^&lt; deads,'' 
or suspended or dissolved in water, impregnating the 
adjoining streams, or rising in fume and vapour in 
the operation of the extraction of tin and copper 
from their ores« The fertilising influence of one set 
of causes, and the deleterious effects of the other, 
are so well marked, ^ that they must necessarily arrest 
the attention ; and, to a person tolerably well con- 
versant with the principles of chemistry, they are no 
meaq elements for agricultural chemistry. Wh^i he 
left his native country, circumstances continued fa- 
vourable for preserving in his mind a lively interest 
in agriculture -^circumstances both of time and place. 
In relation to the latter, it is scarcely necessary to 
make any remark. In the rich valleys of the Severn 
and Avon, contrasted with the generally barren sur- 
face of Cornwall, he must have seen a striking ex- 
emplification of the productive powers of soil ; and 
in the more enlightened system of husbandry, then 
coming into use in the midland counties of England, 
especially as regards rotation of c;;ops, compared 
with the old fallow system, which still maintained 
ks ground in his native county, he must have seen 
as strongly exemplified the resources of science, and 
its superiority over prejudiced and traditional art. 
TWs period of time was a very peculiar and critical 
one ; enhancing the value of agriculture, and demon- 
9tt9tmg its^ truly vital importance to the nation. A 
succession of bad harvests^ and the closure of the 



SIR HUlJtPHRY DAVY. 389 

ports of the Continent, in consequence of the war, 
together threatening famine, gave rise to unwanted 
exertions to oppose and prevent the apprehended 
evil, which were rewarded with eminent success, and 
a£R)rded convincing proof of the capacity of im- 
provement of our agricultural resources. 

This was the exact period when his attention wasr 
called to the subject, when there was an unusual 
avidity for information ; an unusual disposition to 
mrake new trials, and adopt new methods ; and to 
endeavour to convert farming, from a mere art of 
blind processes, which it was, and is still, too generally, 
into a rational system of science. And he was inf-^ 
vited to promote this good cause by a body of the 
most enlightened and influential agriculturists of th^ 
country, who constituted the Board of Agriculture, 
and who exerted themselves, in a very spirited and 
patriotic manner, to collect and diffuse useful know- 
ledge throughout the country. 

The manner in which he followed his inquiries 
into agricultural chemistry was, as well as his object, 
very similar to that he employed in investigating the 
art of tanning; viz., the illustrating and improvin 
the methods of art, by applying to them the prin- 
ciples of science. He witnessed and studied th^ 
operations of the practical fkrmer ; he made himself 
acquainted with the various methods of agriculture ; 
he reasoned on these, and made them the Subjects of 
experiment ; he examined different kinds of soil, as- 
certained their physical properties and chemical com- 
positions; and investigated experimentally the nature 
of manures, and their effects in different states. 

The results of these inquiries he comimmicated 
to the Board of Agriculture in the lectures whiehy 

z 2 



$40 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

for ten years successively, he delivered at its meet- 
ings; and which, when he ceased to lecture in 1813, 
he published at the request of the Board, with the 
title of ^^ Elements of Agricultural Chemistry, in a 
Course of Lectures for the Board of Agriculture.*' 

The style of these lectures is different from that 
which he adopted in addressing a mixed audience in 
the theatre of the Royal Institution ; it is almost 
without ornament, perspicuous and simple. Its 
object was rather to give information . than to excite 
feeling ; his hearers were fully impressed with the 
importance of the subject, and required no persua* 
sion to take a lively interest in it. 

To give a faithful idea of the work, it would be 
:9eeessary to enter into a. minute aimlysis of it, which 
I do not consider suitable to my undertaking. &gt; JMy 
notice of it must be partial, and confined to what 
is most remarkable in it, and most original. 

The first who ever attempted, in England, to con* 
vey instruction by means of lectures on agricultural 
chemistry, or to form into a system of science 
the di^ointed information which had. been gradually 
accumulating, he was perfectly iree tO/foUowthat 
plan which be, might consider best adapted &gt; to the 
views he proposed to inculcate, and the &gt; knowledge 
which be had to communicate. 

The manner in which he treated the subject was 
very general : — ^* Agricultural chemistry,'* he says, 
&lt;&lt; has for its ol^ects. all those changes in the.arrai^e«&gt; 
xn^i^ q€ matter connected with the growth and 
nourishment lOf plants ; the comparative values of 
flieir produce • as food;, the constitution of soils.; 
(jn^^nao^nei: in which lands are enriched by manure^ 
or rendered fertile by the diiOTerent processes of cal« 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. Ml 

tivation/^ And he adds, *&lt; Inquiries of such a na** 
ture cannot but be interesting and important, both- to 
the theoretical agriculturist, and the practical farmer. 
To the first, they are necessary in supplying most of 
the fundamental principles on which the theory of 
the- art depends ; to the second, they are useful in 
affording simple and easy experiments for directing 
his labours, and for enabling him to pursue a certain 
and systematic plan of impi*ovement." This he illus- 
trates by some appropriate instances, which I shall 
quote, as affording a good specimen of the style of com-- 
position he adopted in these lectures, and of the powers 
of chemistry, in connection wltii agriculture :— * 

" It is scarcely possible to enter upon any investi- 
gation in agriculture without finding it connected, 
more or less, with doctrines or elucidations derived 
from chemistry^ 

&lt;&lt; If land be unproductive, and a system of Mcie^ 
liorating it is to be attempted, liie sure method of 
obtaining the object is« by determining the cause of 
its sterility, whidi must necessarily depend upon some 
defect in the constitution of the soil which may be 
easily discovered by chemical analysis. 

&lt;&lt; Some lands of good apparent texture are yet 
sterile in a high degree; and common observation 
and common practice afford no means of ascertaining 
the cause, or of removing the effect. The applica- 
tion of chemical tests in these cases is obvious ; for the 
soil must contain some noxious principle, which may* 
be easily discovered, and probably easily destroyed. 

« Are any of the salts of iron present ? they 
may be decomposed by lime. Is there an exx^ess of 
silicious sand ? the system of improvement must 
depend on the application of clay and taleareobi^ 

z 3 



ft|»2 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

matter. Is there a defect of calcareous matter? 
the remedy is obvious. Is an excess of vegetable 
matter indicated ? it may be removed by liming, par* 
ing, and burning. Is there a deficiency of vegetable 
matter ? it is to be supplied by manure. 

^* A question concerning the different kinds of 
limestone to be employed in cultivation often occurs. 
To determine this fully, in the common way of ex- 
perience, would demand a considerable time, perhaps 
some years, and trials which might be injurious to 
crops ; but, by simple chemical tests, the nature of a 
limestone is discovered in a few minutes, and the 
fitness of its application, whetlier as a manure for 
different soils, or as a cement, is determined. 

&lt;&lt; Peat earth, of a certain consistence and composi* 
tion, is an excellent manure; but there are some 
varieties of peats which contain so large a quantity 
of ferruginous matter as to be absolutely poisonous 
to plants. Nothing can be more simple than the 
chemical operation for determining the nature and 
the probable uses of a substance of this kind. 

" There has been no question on which more differ- 
ence of opinion has existed than that of the state 
in which manure ought to be ploughed into the land ; 
whether recent, or when it has gone through the 
process of fermentation ; and this question is still a 
subject of discussion : but whoever will refer to the 
simplest principles of chemistry, cannot entertain a 
doubt on the subject. As soon as dung begins to 
decompose, it throws off its volatile parts, which are 
the most valuable and most efficient Dung which 
has fermented, so as to become a mere soft cohesive 
mass, has generally lost from one third to one lialf 
jof its most useful constituent elements. It evidently 



SIR HUaHPHRT DAVT. d^S 

should be applied as soon as fermentation begins^ that 
it may exert its full action upon the plants and lose 
none of its nutritive powers. 

It would be easy to adduce a multitude of other 
instances of the same kind ; but sufficient, I trust, has 
been said to prove that the connection of chemistry 
with agriculture is not founded in mere vague spe^ 
culation, but that it offers principles which ought 
to be understood and followed, and which, in th^ir 
progression and ultimate results, can hardly fail to be 
highly beneficial to the community/' 

The cautious and practical, and, I may add, philo^ 
sophical, tone of mind in which he entered upon his 
subject, and recommended in the investigation of it, 
may be judged of by the following extracts : — 

^' No general principles can be laid down respect-* 
ing the comparative merit of the different systems of 
cultivation, and the difierent systems of crops adopted 
in difierent districts, unless tiie chemical nature of 
the soil, and the physical circumstances to which it U 
exposed^ are fully known. Stifi" coherent soils 3X9 
those most benefited by minute division and aeration ; 
and in the drill system of husbandry these efiecta ane&gt; 
produced to the greatest extent : but still the labour 
and expense connected with its application, in certain 
districts, may not be compensated for by the advan- 
tages produced. Moist climates are best fitted for 
raising the artificial grasses, oats, and broad-leaved 
crops; stifi'aluminous soils, in general, are most adapted 
for wheat crops ; and calcareous soils produce exceU 
lent sainfoin and clover. 

^ &lt;&lt; Nothing is more wanting in agrictd.ture that! 
experiments, in which all the circumstances are mi« 

z 4 • 



$^ . MEMOISd OF Tii£ JUIFE OF 

Irately and scientifically detailed. This art will advance 
with rapidity ia proportion as it becomes exact in its 
Biethods. As, in physical researches, all the causes 
should be considered, a difi^rence in the results may 
be produced, even by the fall of a half an inch of rairi 
more. or less in the course of a season, or a few de-» 
grees of temperature, or even by a slight difiference 
iQ the subsoil, or in the. inclination of the land 

** Information collected, after views of distinct in- 
quiry, would necessarily be. more accurate, and more 
capable of bemg connected with the general principles 
of science ; and a few histories of the results of truly 
philosophical experiments in agricultural chemistry 
would be of nK)re value in enlightening and benefiting 
ike fanner, than the greatest possible accumulation 
of imp^ect trials conducted merely in the empirical 
spirit. It is no unusual occurrence, for persons who 
argue in favour of practice and experience, to con^ 
demn generally all attempts to improve agriculture 
by philosophicai inquiries and chemical tx^thods. 
That much vague speculation may be found in the 
works of those who have lightly taken up agricultural} 
chemistry, it is impossible to deny. It is not uncom^ 
iBon to findta number of' changes rung upon a&gt; string 
of technical terms, such as oxygen, hydrogen, oaf boa, 
and azote, as if the science depended upoa word» 
rather than upon things^ But this is, in fact, an ar»; 
gument for the necessity of the establishment of just 
principles of chemistry on the subject Whoever, 
reasons iipon agriculture, is obliged to recur to thk; 
science. He feels that it is scarcely possible. to ad- 
vance a step Without it ; and if he is satisfied with in*- 
sufficient views, it is not because he prefers them to 
accurate knowledge, but, generally, because they are 



Sm HUMPHRY DAW. 34f&amp; 

move durrent. If a person joorneying in tibe ni^kt 
wishes to avoid being led astray by the igtiis fatuus^ 
the most secure method is to carry a lamp in his o\im 
hand. It has been said, and, undoubtedly, with great 
truth, that a philosophical chemist would most pro- 
bably make a very unprofitable business of farming ; 
and this certainly would be the &lt;case, if he were a 
mere philosophical chemist ; and unless he had seiVed 
bis apprenticeship to the practice of the art, a^ Well 
as to the theory. But there is reason- to believe that 
he would be a more successful agriculturiiM than a 
person equally uninitiated in farming, but ignorant 
of chemistry dtogether ^ his science, as* far as it went, 
would be useful to him. Bat chemistiy is not the 
csily kind of knowledge required : it forms a 'part of 
the philosophical basis of agriculture ; butitisatvimw 
portant part, and, whenever applied in a proper maxi^ 
ner, must produce advantages. &gt; ^ f 

" In proportion as science advances, all the tpnnu 
cfples become less complicated, and consequc&amp;itfy 
more useful ; and it is then that their appMcaticm is 
ikiost advantageously made to the arts* The &lt;cbm^ 
mon labourer can never be enlightened by the ge&lt;;&lt;e 
neral dootriBes of philosophy ; but he will not reftme 
to adopt any practice, of the utility of which ii^? is 
fully convinced, because it has been founded on theS6 
principles. The mariner can trust to the compass^ 
though he may be wholly tmacquainted with^ the Ak*, 
coveries of Gilbert on magnetism, or the teSned 
principles of that science developed by the ^gemmof 
j^pinusw The dyer will use his bleaching liquoiv ^^ii 
though he k, perhaps, ignorant not &lt;Mily of the coosti^ 
tution, but even of the nime, of the substance on 
which its powers depend. The great ptirpose of 



346 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

chemical investigation in agriculture ought, undoubt- 
edly, to be the discovery of improved methods of cul- 
tivation. But, to this end, general scientific principles 
and practical knowledge are alike necessary. The 
germs of discovery are often found in rational specu- 
lations, and industry is never so efficacious as when 
assisted by science." 

As we have seen from his definition of agricultural 
chemistry, he allowed himself the greatest possible 
latitude in treating of it, convinced that it was only 
by a comprehensive view of his subject that he should 
be able to render it interesting and useful : and this 
remark I would offer in reply to those critics who 
have been of opinion that he unnecessarily associated 
agricultural chemistry with vegetable physiology, as 
if there were no natural connection between them, 
and that the alliance was injurious.* As well, it ap* 
pears to me, might it be attempted to teach animal 
chemistry without reference to physiology. Both in 
vegetable and animal life, functions are the subjects 
of most importance ; and in the one, as well as in the 
other, they can only be successfully investigated by 
calling in the aid of chemistry. The little that has 
been ascertained in a satisfactory manner, both in 
animal and vegetable physiology, has in great part 
been owing to chemistry ; and there is good reason 
to believe, that no very extensive improvement or 
advance in the former can take place unpreceded 
by the advancement of the latter. Many instances 
might be given in corroboration ; one may suffice, in 
which, by a simple experiment, a very iinportant fact 
is almost demonstrated ; viz., that plants derive their 

• Dr. Pam*s " Life/' &amp;c.. Edin. Review, vol* xxii. 



SIR BUMPHRT DAVY. 347 

nourishment solely from fluids, and are incapable of 
absorbing any solid matter, however finely divided :— * 

&lt;' The pores in the fibres of the roots of plants are 
so small, that it is with difficulty they can be disov 
yered by the microscope ; it is not, therefore, probable 
that solid substances can pass into them from the soil, 
I tried an experiment on this subject : some impaL 
pable powdered charcoal, procured by washing gun« 
powder, and dissipating the sulphur by heat, was 
placed in a phial containing pure water, in which a 
plant of peppermint was growing ; the roots of the 
plant were pretty generally in contact with the char- 
coal. The experiment was made in the beginning 
of May, 1805 ; the growth of the plant was very 
vigorous during a fortnight, when it was taken out of 
the phial; the roots were cut through in different 
parts ; but no carbonaceous matter could be disco- 
vered in them, nor were the smallest fibrils blackened 
by charcoal, though this must have been the case had 
the charcoal been absorbed in a solid form. No sub^ 
stance is more necessary to plants than carboimceous 
matter ; and if this cannot be introduced into the 
organs of plants except in a state of solution, there is 
every reason to suppose that other substances less 
essential will be in the same case.'' 

Of every work of any magnitude, the different 
parts must almost of necessity vary in interest and 
importance : such an inequality exists in these lec- 
tures. The parts of minor interest are those relating 
to vegetable physiology; the anatomy, or natural 
structure, of plants ; their proximate principles, their 
elements, and the general powers of matter by which 
tliey are influenced, and the laws according to which 
they combine and are arranged. These discussion^ 



S4B MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

are merely subservient and auxiliary to the main 
subject The most important parts are those which 
treat of the nature of soils, their analysis, and 
their improvement ; of the nature of manures, their 
Varieties, and the general principles of their use ; 
the manner in which they act, and in which they 
should be prepared ; and, lastly, of the effects of the 
operations of agriculture, which have for their osten* 
feible object the improvement of the quality of land, or 
the amelioration of crops ; such as burning, irrigation, 
fallowing, and the system of convertible husbandry. 

In- all these subjects chemistry bears powerfully on 
agriculture ; and the author applies chemical science 
with much felicity to their explanation. 

By easy processes of analysis, he shows how the 
three or four earthy elements, of which the majority- 
of soils are composed, may be ascertained ; and also 
the proportion of animal and vegetable matter, and 
df water, which are essential to all fertile soils. This 
subject of the analysis and composition of soils first 
had his attention when he commenced his inquiries 
in agricultural chemistry. In 1805, he published in 
Nicholson's Journal a paper on it ; and the methods 
he then recommended have since been copied into 
most elementary works of chemistry ; and they am 
identically those contained in this work. His object 
was to give to the agriculturist the power of ascer- 
taining the chemical nature of any soil for practical 
purposes ; and his methods are so simple as to be 
perfectly attainable by any person of ordinary capa- 
pacity. In the paper already mentioned, alluding to 
trials of soils; he makes some remarks which are de- 
serving of being repeated ; affording encouragement 
to the novice in experimental research, and pointing* 



SIR HUMJBHRY DAVT. S4§ 

out the advantages of it, and even the advantages of 
the failure of experiments : — 

&lt;&lt; In the first trials that are made^ by persons imac^ 
quainted with chemistry, they must not expect much 
precision of result. Many difficulties will be mett 
with ^ but, in overcoming tliem, the most useful kind 
of practical knowledge will be obtained ; and nothing 
is so instructive in experimental science as the detec- 
tion of mistakes. The correct analyst ought to be well 
grounded in chemical information; but, perhaps, 
there is no better mode of gaining it, than that of 
attempting original investigations. In pursuing his 
experiments, he will be contioually obliged to leam 
from books the history of the substances he is em* 
ploying or acting upon ; and his theoretical ideas 
will be more valuable, in being connected with prac&lt;» 
tical operation, and acquired for the purpose of dis* 
cioyery," 

. In discussing the subject of manures^ he constantly 
has recourse to scientific views, and endeavours to 
render. what is obscure and mysterious, clear apd ra* 
tional, by means of reference to a few principles^ 
partly physiological, partly chemical. The physiolov 
gical principle has been already noticed* and Uie ex4 
p€;rim&lt;ent in proof of it The principle is^ that, ^ 
plants can draw up only fluids by their roots, solution 
is an essential circumstance to the activity of ma^ 
nures : — " The great object in the application of ma« 
n,ure, should be, to make it afford as much soluble 
pp^tter as possible to the roots of tb^ plant, aad that 
ip a slow and gradual manner, sq that it may be en* 
tijrely consumed in forming its 3ap and . organise4 
parts." * And with thi^ rule is connected the ok^ 

* ^* Elements of Agricultural Chemistry/' p. 273^. ' 



850 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

'roical principles of his theory j viz., that the ferment- 
ation of manures necessary for the solution of their 
insoluble parts, should be a regulated process ; and, 
as it is connected with decomposition, and the escape 
and loss of gaseous elements, it should be stopped as 
soon as the end for which it is instituted is attained, 
or should be carried on underground, and in the act 
be rendered subservient to the purpose intended — 
the nourishment of plants. 

In confirmation of his views, he gives an account 
of an experiment, which I shall quote, as a good ex- 
ample of chemical illustration. It is brought forward 
in proof of the great and injurious loss sustained by 
the manure of the farm-yard, during the violent fer- 
mentation into which it is generally allowed to pass 
to become what is called short nrnck : — 
- " In October, 1808, I filled a large retort, capable 
of containing three pints of water, with some hot 
fermenting manure, consisting principally of the litter 
and dung of cattle : I adapted a small receiver to the 
retort, and connected the whole with a mercurial 
pneumatic apparatus, so as to collect the condensi- 
ble and elastic fluids which might rise firom the dung. 
The receiver soon became lined with dew, and drops 
began, in a few hours, to trickle down the sides of 
it. Elastic fluid, likewise, was generated : in three 
days, thirty-five cubical inches had been formed, 
which, when analysed, were found to contain twenty- 
one cubical inches of carbonic acid : the remainder 
was hydrocarbonate, mixed with some azote, proba- 
bly no more than existed in the common air in 
the receiver. The fluid matter collected in the 
receiver, at the same time, amounted to nearly half 
an ounce : it had a saline taste, and a disagreeable 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. $51 

smell, and contained some aeetate and carbonate of 
ammonia. 

&lt;&lt; Finding such products given off from ferment- 
ipg litter, I introduced the beak of another retort, 
filled with similar dung, very hot at the time, in the 
soil, amongst the roots of some grass in the border of 
the garden ; in less than a week a very distinct ef&amp;ct 
was produced on the grass : upon the spot exposed to 
the influence of the matter disengaged in ferment- 
ation, it grew with much more luxuriance than the 
grass in any other part of the garden,'' 

The application which he makes of the theory of 
manures, whether to the economy of the farm-yard, 
for the preparation and the preserving of compound 
manures, or to the economy of nature, is a striking 
instance both of the utility and beauty of science, 
and how it equally tends to render vile things useful, 
and mean things dignified. I shall quote the last ap-* 
plication, with which he concludes the lecture on 
vegetable and animal manures : — 

" The doctrine," he says " of the proper application 
of manures from organised substances offers an illus- 
tration of an important part of the economy of nature, 
and of the happy order in which it is arranged. 

** The death and decay of animal substances tend 
to resolve organised forms into chemical constituents ^ 
and the pernicious efiluvia disengaged in the process 
seem to point out the propriety of burying them in 
the soil, where they are fitted to become the food 
of vegetables. The fermentation and putrefaction 
of organised substances in the free atmosphere, are 
noxious processes : beneath the surface of the ground, 
they are salutary operations. In this case the food 
ojf pLwts is prepared where it can be used ; and that. 



S5fi MEMOIRS OP THE LIFE OF 

which would offend the senses and injure the healthy 
if exposed^ is converted, by gradual processes, into 
forms of beauty and usefulness* The fetid gas is 
rendered a constituent of the aroma of the flower, 
and what might be poison becomes nourishment to 
animals and to man." 

The manner in which he treats of fossil manures^ 
and deduces the principles of their operation, — that 
** they must produce their effect either by becoming 
a constituent part of the plant, or by acting upon its 
more essential food^ so as to render it more fitted for 
the purposes of vegetable life," — may be mentioned 
as a happy example of the union of physiology and 
chemistry. By means of electro-chemical research, 
that published in his first Bakerian Lecture, he 
showed, that distilled water, apparently pure, is not 
really so ; and that various substances, in very minute 
quantities, may be extracted from it under the in« 
fluence of the voltaic battery. This fact he employs 
to refute the conclusion of some physiologists,* 
ibunded on fallacious experiments, that the earthy 
and saline parts of plants are formed from air or water, 
in consequence of the agencies of the living organs. 

The fossil manure he first considers is lime, the one- 
most commonly used, and the most important of all of 
them. Injurious, in the form of quick-lime, to vege- 
tation, he is of opinion that it is beneficial, by accele* 
rating the decomposition and promoting the solution 
of any hard vegetable matter in the soil.* ** Quick- 



* He is also ef &lt;^inioii that it promotes the fennentation of TegeCa- 
Ue UMtter. The vesalts of some experiments, which I have raad» with&gt; 
much caK, ave in opposition to this idea. In dose vessels^ I find lime 
in sahstanoe anests equally vinous fermentation, and the putrefactive, 
and that it is^ in fact^ a most powerful antiseptic. Its solvent power is 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 353 

lime, when it becorbesf mild, operates in tlie same 
manner as chalk, improving the texture of -the soil 
(or its relation to absorption) ; but, in the act of be- 
coming mild, it prepares soluble out of insoluble 
matter/* And on this simple principle he lays down 
rules for its use ; noting precisely the circumstances 
in which lime, in its caustic, and also in its mild or 
carbonated state, should be employed. 

He applies the same principle to explain the 
eflfects of burnt magnesiain limestone, which is a mix- 
ture of lime and magnesia ; accounting for the well 
Irtiown fact, that the mixture is more active thau 
lime alone, and requires to be laid on in smaller 
quantity, by the circumstance that magnesia, like 
llnie, • is injurious when caustic, and that it remain tt 
caustic longer than lime. 

. The action of two other fossil manures, combin- 
atibns of lime, — viz., gjrpsum,- in which it i« combined 
with sulphuric acid, and *' the earth of bones,'* in 
"which it is combined with the phosphoric acid, — h6 
explains, on the idea that these two substances enter 
into the composition of vegetables, the growth of 
which they promote, — gypsum, in certain of the 
gfksses, and phosphate of lime, in certain of the 
ceralia; and that they are beneficial as manures^ 
when the earth is destitute of them. In some in- 
stances they havie been employed,, and have ap- 
parently failed, the crops not having been improved 
vby the * application : in alt these cases of apparent 



dtetinet ftt&gt;m this. I have found it, eontriry to tihe oohimofi belief, 
Tery elBdent in preserving animal teztnres, with the exception of cati. 
de, on which it acts in a peculiar manner, and, ftcm what I have oh. 
serred, I have verj little donht it might be well employed 4n p r eeervtwy 
ildi miannres. &gt; ' ' 

VOL. I. A A 



354 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

failure, he supposes that a fresh supply was not re- 
quired ; that there pre-existed in the soil a sufficient 
quantity; and whenever he examined the soil the 
result confirmed the idea. 

The manner in which he explains the effects of 
wood ashes as a manure, is a good illustration of his 
theory of the action of fossil manures generally : — 

" Wood ashes consist principally of the vegetable 
alkali united to carbonic acid ; and, as this alkali is 
found in almost all plants, it is not difficult to conceive 
that it may form an essential part of their organs. The 
general tendency of the alkalies is to give solubility 
to vegetable matters; and, in this way, they may 
render carbonaceous and other substances capable of 
being taken up by the tubes in the radicle fibres of 
plants. The vegetable alkali, likewise, has a strong 
attraction for water ; and, even in small quantities, 
may tend to give a due degree of moisture to the 
soil, or to other manures; though this operation, 
from the small quantities used, or existing in the 
soil, can be only of a secondary kind.'* 

In the last lecture on the great operations of agri- 
culture, as burning, irrigation, rotation of crops, &amp;C., 
the information he brings forward, derived from che- 
mistry, displays, in a very striking manner, the con- 
nection between agriculture and chemistry ; and how 
advantageously the refined principles of the latter 
may be employed to guide and elucidate the pro- 
cesses of the former, and as it were give science to 
art. Let us take, as an instance, his account of the 
drill husbandry : — 

" In the drill husbandry the land is preserved 
dean by the extirpation of the weeds by hand, and 
by raising the crops in rows, which renders the de- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 35b 

struction of the weeds much more easy. Manure is 
supplied either by the green crops themselves, or 
from the dung of the cattle fed upon them ; and the 
plants having large systems of leaves are made to 
alternate with those bearing grain. 

" It is a great advantage in the convertible system 
of cultivation that the whole of the manure is em- 
ployed, and that those parts of it which are not 
fitted for one crop remain as nourishment for an- 
other. Thus, in Mr. Coke's course of crops, the 
turnip is the first in the order of succession ; and this 
crop is manured with recent dung, which immedi- 
ately affords sufficient soluble matter for its nourish- 
ment, and the heat produced in fermentation assists 
the germination of the seed, and the growth of the 
plant After turnips, barley with grass seeds is 
sown ; and the land, having been little exhausted by 
the turnip crops, affords the soluble parts of the de- 
ecmiposing manure to the grain. The grasses, rye 
grass and clover, remain, which derive a small part 
only of their organised matter from the soil, and 
probably consume the gypsum in the manure, which 
would be useless to other crops ; these plants, like- 
wise, by their large systerti of leaves, absorb a con- 
siderable quantity of nourishment from the atmos- 
phere ; and, when ploughed in at the end of ^two 
years, the decay of their roots and leaves affords 
manure for the wheat crop : and, at this period of the 
course, the woody fibre of the farm-yard manure, 
which contains the phosphate of lime, and the other 
difficultly soluble parts, is broken down; and, as 
soon as the most exhausting crop is taken, recent 
manure is again applied." 

He concludes his work with the following re- 
marks : — 

A A 2 



356 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

" I have now exhausted all the subjects of discus- 
sion, which my experience or information has been 
able to supply, on the connection of chemistry with 
agriculture. 

" I venture to hope that some of the views brought 
forward may contribute to the improvement of the 
most important and useful of the arts. 

" I trust that the inquiry will be pursued by 
others ; and that in proportion as chemical philosophy 
advances towards perfection, it will afford new ai^ 
to agriculture. 

** There are sufficient motives connected both with 
pleasure and profit to encourage ingenious men to 
pursue this new path of investigation. Science can- 
not long be despised by any persons as the mere 
speculation of theorists ; but must soon be considered 
by all ranks of men in its true point of view, as the 
refinement of common sense guided by experience, 
gradually substituting sound and rational principles 
for vague popular prejudices. 

*«The soil offers inexhaustible resources, which, 
when* properly appreciated and employed, must in- 
crease our wealth, • our population, and our physical 
strength. 

«* We possess advantages in the use of machinery 
and the division of labour, belonging to no other 
nation ; and the same energy of character, the same 
extent of resources, which have always distinguished 
the people of the British Islands, and made them 
excel in arms, commerce, letters, and philosophy; 
apply with the happiest effect to the improvement of 
the cultivation of the earth. Nothing is impossible 
to labour, aided by ingenuity. The true objects of 
the agriculturist are likewise those of the patriot. 
Men value most what they have gained with effort ; 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 357 

a just confidence in their own powers results from 
success } they love their country better, because they 
have seen it improved by their own talents and in* 
dustry; and they identify with their interests the 
existence of those institutions which have afforded 
them security, independence, and the multiplied 
enjoyments of civilised life." 

The manner in which this work has been received, 
and the number of editions through which it has 
passed, the translations of it that have been made 
into almost every European language, are the best 
proof of its merit, and of the general estimati6n in 
which it has been held. That it was far from a per- 
feet work, no one knew better than the author him-- 
self. In criticising it in relation to his powers, the 
circumstances under which it was composed should 
be taken into account To agricultural chemistry 
he devoted only a small part of his time ; and that 
at a period when he was intensely occupied in re-* 
searches in the laboratory, in a train of experimental 
inquiry and discovery to which it would be difficult 
to find a parallel, either in brilliancy or importance, 
" We feel grateful to him," observes a contemporary 
writer in the Edinburgh Review, " for having thus sus- 
pended for a time the labours of original investigation, 
in order to apply the principles and discoveries of his 
favourite science to the illustration and improvement 
of an art which, above all others, ministers to the 
wants and comforts of man." * Moreover, at that 
time, agricultural chemistry had been very little cul- 
tivated i no principles had been established ; few 
satisfactory experiments even had been made of a 

* Edin. Review, vol. xxii. p. SS-S. ■ ' 

A A 3 



35S MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

precise and scientific kind ; and, in consequence^ he 
was obliged to draw almost entirely on his own re- 
sources. It is not, therefore, surprising that he 
sometimes adopted an opinion which has since 
proved to be erroneous, and indulged in speculation 
which later research has not confirmed. Science is 
essentially progressive, and it can be perfected only 
by the labour of many individuals. From this pro- 
gressive nature of experimental science, the judg- 
ment of posterity on this work will probably be 
somewhat different from that of his contemporaries ; 
and I imagine that, though the most popular of all 
his productions now, after a while, from being less 
original, it will be least in request. 

In connection with his geological inquiries he 
instituted very many experiments on the analysis of 
mineral bodies, abundant proofs of which are given 
in his geological lectures } but he published little ex- 
pressly on the subject ; only two papers : one of them 
giving an account of, his analysis of Wavelite, and 
the other describing the use of Bors^cic Acid, as a 
substitute for potash, in the analysis of compound 
minerals. Both these papers appeared in the Philo^ 
sophical Transactions for 1805. They are not unin- 
teresting in the annals of analytical chemistry, but 
they do not appear of sufficient importance to require 
particular notice. His most important contribution 
to this department of knowledge was contained in 
his Bakerian Lecture for 1806, " On some Chemical 
Agencies of Electricity." In the concluding part of 
this lecture, he makes some very interesting observ- 
ations on the influence of electro-chemical actionin the 
economy of nature, and especially in the mineral king, 
dom, the correctness of which has been fully confirmed 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 359 

by the ingenious researches of M. Becquerel, and 
other inquirers. I shall quote his remarks : — 

** Alterations of electrical equilibrium are continu* 
ally taking place in nature ; and it is probable that 
this influence in its faculties of decomposition and 
transference considerably interferes with the chemical 
alterations occurring in different parts of our system. 

" The electrical appearances which precede earth- 
quakes and volcanic eruptions, and which have been 
described by the greater number of observers of these 
awful events, admit of very easy explanation on the 
principles that have been stated. 

&lt;^ Beside the cases of sudden and violent change, 
there must be constant and tranquil alterations, in 
which electricity is concerned, produced in various 
parts of the interior strata of our globe. 

" Where pyritous strata and strata of coalblende 
occur, where the pure metals or the sulphurets are 
found in contact with each other or any conducting 
substances, and where different strata contain differ- 
ent saline menstrua, electricity must be continually 
manifested ; and it is very {H'obable that many mineral 
formations have been materially influenced, or even, 
occasioned, by its agencies. 

&lt;* In an experiment that I made of electrifying a 
mixed solution of muriates of irons, of copper, of tin, 
and cobalt, in a positive vessel, distilled water being 
in a negative vessel, all the four oxides passed along 
the asbestos, and into the negative tube, and a yel- 
low metallic crust formed on the wire, and the oxides 
arranged themselves in a mixed state round the base 
of it. 

" In another experiment, in which carbonate of 
copper was diffused through water in a state of minute 

A A 1 



'860 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

division^ aod a negative wire pkced in a small per-- 
forated cube of zeolite in the water, green crystals 
collected round the cube, the particles not being 
capable of penetrating it. 

** By a multiplication of such instances, the electri- 
cal power of transference may be easily conceived 
to apply to the explanation of some of the principal 
and most my sterious facts in geology; and, by ima- 
gining a scale of feeble powers, it would be easy to 
account for the association of the insoluble metallic 
and earthy compounds containing acids. 

** Natural electricity has hitherto been little inves- 
tigated, except in the case of its evident and power- 
ful concentration in the atmosphere. Its slow and 
silent operations, in every part of the surface will 
probably be found more immediately and impcHl- 
antly connected with the order and economy of 
nature; and investigations on this subject can hardly 
fail to enlighten our philosophical systems of the 
earthy and may possibly place new powers within our 
reach." * 

The preceding were the principal subjects of re- 
search to which he applied himaelf during this active 
period of his life ; but they were not the only ones : 
-^his pursuits were miscellaneous and discursive; 
and almost every branch of chemistry had more or 



* These antidpations have been in part realised^ and probably wiU 
be wholly confirmed in the progress of research. Conclusive experi. 
ments have shown that, equally in the atmosphere and beneath the sur- 
face of the earth, electricity is in operation; and its effects in one 
region as well as in the otber^ in our present limited state of knowledge 
of atmospheric and terrestrial changes^ are hardly to be calculated as re- 
gards the earth. It is not difficult from analogy to imagine that, under 
its influence^ not only minerals may be formed^ as my brother supposed^ 
but that even rocks may become crystalline^ unaided either by solution 
or fusion. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* S6l 

less of his attention. This is indicated, in part, by 
what he published ; bat more forcibly by his note 
books. 

In meteorology he took considerable interest, and 
designed several instruments for aiding the study of 
it; as a photometer, hygrometer, and endiometer. 
Of his endiometer he gave an account in the journal 
of the Royal Institution, accompanied by a notice of 
the results which he had obtained by means of it, in 
confirtnation of the uniformity of composition of the 
atmosphere in different seascHis, and In different 
situations. It is one* of the simplest and most accu- 
rate means hitherto invented for ascertaining the 
proportions of oxygen and azote ; being merely a 
graduated glass tube, and a solution of muriate or 
sulphate of iron at the minimum of oxidation satur- 
ated with nitrous gas. The solution absorbs the 
oxygen of the portion of atmospheric air brought 
in contact with it, leaving the azote free. 

He continued his inquiries relative to heat and 
light, as well as electricity, reviewing his early spe- 
culations, and correcting them, when not in accord- 
ance with the results of carefully conducted experi- 
ments. A paper on the collision of steel and hard 
bodies, bearing on the question of light, he published 
in the Journal of the Royal Institution.* Most of 
the facts in it he had ascertained before he left Bris^ 
tol •, and they have been already noticed (page 84.) 

In the application of chemistry to the. common 
arts, he did not limit himself to those already con- 
sidered ; namely, agriculture and the art of tanning. 
Hints occur both in his memoranda and published 

* Also in Nicholson's Journal^ vol. iv. p. 103. 



362 MEM01R3 OF THE L1F£ OF 

papers, indicating that he never lost sight of the use- 
fuhiess of science in relation to our every day wants, 
even when engaged in researches apparently the 
least connected with them. He instituted many ex- 
periments on the improvement of British spirits ; and 
succeeded, by the admixture of a little etherial oil of 
wine, in imparting to the spirit distilled from char- 
coal a flavour very similar to that of Cognac brandy. 
In bis agricultural chemistry he notices the fact ; but 
in a very brief manner, — its interest, with its no- 
velty, having passed away. 

In his first **Bakerian Lecture" on some of the 
chemical agencies of electricity, he suggests a plan 
for decomposing the neutral salts by means of elec- 
tricity, and obtaining, with little trouble or expense, 
their acids and alkalies in large quantities ; and, in a 
memorandum written a year or two previously, he 
puts the query, " Might not there be an excellent cir- 
culating manufactory established for decomposing 
common salt by boracic acid, and of decomposing 
borate of soda by lime ?'* 

These things he himself did not try on a large 
scale with a view to profit : for him discovery had a 
greater charm than gain; and be appears to have 
been of opinion, that he had done his duty when he 
had pointed out the application of a scientific truth 
or principle to the arts of life ; well aware, to use an 
expression of Lord Bacon^s, that ** the applying of 
knowledge to lucre diverts the advancement of 
knowledge, as the golden bail thrown before Ata- 
lanta, which, while she stoops to take up, the race is 
hindered. *• 



« 



Declinat cursus^ aurumque volubile tollit. 



r* 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. S6S 

Of all the materials of biography, perhaps, note- 
books, kept solely for the use of the individual, are 
the most valuable ; they are, as it were, the log-book 
and register of the mind, and are equally fitted to 
display its habits and powers. My brother's note- 
books are not an exception to this remark : hastily 
written, and irregularly kept, designed for no eye 
but his own, they are very characteristic of him, and 
of the pursuits in which he was engaged at the time 
they were kept Belonging to this period, his note- 
books are rather less miscellaneous than those of any 
former or after time; and principally, though not 
exclusively, relate to matters of science and philo- 
sophy, on which' his mind was then most intent. 
Some selections from them may not be unacceptable 
to the reader. Of poetry there occurs but little 
besides what has been already given : two specimens 
may suffice; one "On Athens,** a fragment; the 
other, " Lines addressed to a Young Lady on her 
Birthday ; ** the one pouring forth his admiration of 
intellect, and the other his love of nature, blended 
with his love of intellect and beauty. It is right to 
observe that neither of these effusions appears to have 
had his attention after they were written ; at least I 
have not been able to find a fair copy of them : — 

" TO ATHENS. 

" Oh Athens ! child of elder glory. 
The first, the hest, renown'd in story ! 
From whom, amidst the hirtfas of time 
Sprang forth, immaculate, sublime. 
The love of letters, science glowing. 
And an holy charm bestowing 
On all the natural forms of things, 
- Giving to the Muses wings 



364 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

To raise them from the paths of pleasure. 
From orgies in the Lydian measure. 
Amidst dark Cyprian vineyards given. 
To the eternal light of heaven ; 
To call them from the thoughts of error. 
From superstition's midnight terror, 
From the tyrant's gold-bought praise. 
From whining parasitic lays. 
To intellect's more wholesome food. 
The magnificent and good ; 
From base and popular applause. 
From judgment*s foul unhallowed laws. 
To that which, sacred and refined. 
Flows from the eternal mind ! 
Knowledge that never can decay 
(Exhaustless as the unfathom'd sea). 
That to the ardent lover gives 
That vital dew which each that lives 
Absorbs, demands, with joy inhales, 
MHiether from the peaceful gales 
Breathing o'er those happy isles. 
Where Nature is profuse of smiles. 
Or the keen north, whose fur clad host 
Ranged upon the Arctic coast. 
Beneath the light of moon and star. 
Wait the day-spring from afar. 
And in their long and tedious night 
In visions catch the solar light. 
Athens ! the poet's darling theme, — - 
Athens ! the patriot*s sacred dream. 
Where luxury did a form assume 
Which all the virtues might illume. 
Where Venus wore Minerva's plume 
Warmed by whose beauteous charms the sage 
Was youthful in the vale of age ; 
Where woman lovely shone, supreme 
Above the poet's loftiest dream. 
And to philosophy had given 
Elysium, and a mortal heaven. 
She yielded not to gold alone, 
Nor to Golconda's glittering stone : 
^ She loved whatever could expand 

The soul, -^ the beautiful, the grand : 

Whatever Phidias had designed 

Expressive of immortal mind. 

Came to her fancy like the sound 

Of mountain torrents murmuring round." 






SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. S&amp;5 



" TO A YOUNG LADY ON HEU BIRTHDAY. 

'&lt; Hail^ loved one ! to thy natal mom 1 
May eyery coming year adorn 
Thy mind with new.born charms and powers ; 
And never may the fleeting hours 
TeU thee of aught hut happiness ! 
May Nature^ in her fairest dress^ ' 

For thee frame flowery chapleta new 
Of roses fresh in matin dew ! 
May every season of the year 
For thee some new delight prepare ! 
In spring mature the rural scenes 
Of highland glens or pastoral plains. 
There^ where the moon in parting day 
Sheds through the trees her tremhling ray 
Upon the halmy moss beneath, 
Mayst thou the evening zephyr breathe 
And listen to the songs which moTe 
The plumed choristers to love ! 
Or if the moonshine is not seen. 
May glow-worms light thee on the green ; 
Or the fair star whose tranquil ray 
Seems in the solar blaze ta play. 
As if it fed upon its streams 
Of light, and caught its dying beams ! 
When summer's suns in fwvor glow. 
Then be thy haunt the mountain s brow. 
Where blue, amidst the briUiant sky. 
Its giant heima ane lifted high 
Above the cloudy canopy, 
Wliich spreading like a sea of light 
In dappled colours fleecy bright, 
(As if a sudden fairy birth) 
At once commingle heaven and earth. 
When their rich dress the woods display 
And quicker wanes the tranquil day, 
Then mayst thou haunt the murmuring streams 
Fitted for poetic dreams I 
Where the- cushet's mournful sigh 
Tells love's sweet season is gone by ; 
There mayst thou then in quiet slumbers 
Frame some soul-«wakening numbers^ 
Some melancholy musing high^ 
Breathing of immortality ! 
When slanting suns through snow clouds peep, 
And Nature seems to sink in sleep, 
Then may society impart 
Its sacred influence to thy heart; 



366 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Not the Tain influence of the crowds 

Or sneering low^ or laughing loud^ 

But that which from the wise and good 

Flows pure as if in solitude ! — 

Creative, noble^ free^ and kind^ 

The light, the spirit of the mind. 

And mayst thou, loyely woman ! give 

Feelings which shall for ever live ; 

The images by passion caught. 

The eloquence which kindles thought. 

Which strength to weakness can impart. 

And rouse again the exhausted heart ; 

Like the refreshing streams that flow 

From Cotopaxi crowned with snow. 

Wakening where Quito's plains expand 

Life upon the burning sand. 

Creating by their balmy power 

The dewy herb and odorous flower ! 

Oh never may the coming years 

Be seen through gloom, or mists of tears. 

But tinged with rainbow hues, and bright 

As autumn's skies in evening light ! 

Or if a transient cloud should rise, 

Soon may it glow with brilliant dyes ; 

And, like the clouds that shed the dew. 

And give the flowers a brighter hue. 

May it a healing charm impart 

To soften or to wake the heart ! 

No grief, no anguish mayst thou prove — 

No care, unless it spring from love !" H. D. 

On the subject of religion, comparing the Christian 
with other religions, the following reflections are 
written in pencil, in a note-book kept in 1805 ; and 
it is easy to imagine that they might have been put 
down after his mind had been warmed by some such 
discussion relative to religion as that already men- 
tioned as having occurred in Ireland, at Dr. Richard- 
son's : — 

" The notions delivered in the early systems of 
mythology with regard to a future state are vague, 
obscure, and inadequate. The Cimmerian shades of 
Homer, or the Elysian fields of Virgil, present no 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, StjJ 

high impressive pictures ; to form them required only 
a distempered imagination ; and the sufferings of the 
vicious in Tartarus were fitted perhaps to excite a 
certain degree of superstitious fear in weak minds : 
but the happiness bestowed on the heroic and the 
virtuous, in the Elysian shades, is of a nature too 
feeble and indistinct ever to have had a material 
influence on spirits of a nobler stamp. The pleasures 
of the good are represented as the mere shadows of 
earthly enjoyments ; and no justly thinking man living 
under the system could have sacrificed the earth for 
the heaven, the present for the future, or have re- 
nounced one vicious inclination in consequence of 
his veneration for Jupiter, or his dread of the wrath 
of Pluto. 

^' In the religion of Mahomet, rewards and pu- 
nishments are strongly and impressively inculcated. 
But the paradise of the Mussulman is a rude copy 
of an earthly garden of pleasure. The mere enjoy- 
ment of common sensual pleasure is made the ulti- 
mate and glorious destiny of the believer and the 
blessed ; and the warrior who has shed his blood in 
battle in the cause of God and the Prophet, and the 
dervise whose body has fallen under the discipline of 
abstinence and continual penance, have each their 
similar portions of women and wine, and are sup- 
posed eternally happy in the society of virgins im- 
mortal and undecaying, amidst ever-verdant groves 
bright with eternal sunshine, and moistened by 
streams containing a beverage more delicious than 
the juice of the grape of Schiraz. 

^* The tendency of such contemplations must neces- 
sarily be to debase and enfeeble the character, and to 
imprint more deeply on the mind the lowest passions^ 



368 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and the most brutal appetites. That religion which 
has the harmony of truth, on the contrary, must ne^- 
cessarily curb the senses, and exalt the spirit ; and, in 
all its details, must appeal to the loftiest and most 
intellectual passions of our nature. In the Christian 
system, the pleasures as well as the pains of a fu- 
ture life, though inconceivably great, have yet their 
means and their end concealed in mystery. The 
indefinite, the strongest source of high interest, is 
perpetually called up in the mind — * Eye hath not 
seen, nor eat heard, neither hath it entered into 
the heart of man to conceive the joys that he hath 
prepared for those who love him.* Sublimity is the 
characteristic of the future state in the religion of 
Jesus. The highest degree of hope or of fear must 
be awakened by it. The objects are grand, indefinite ; 
and they are therefore most perfectly calculated to 
occupy the faculties of a being whose capacity of 
mental enjoyment and suffering, of improvement and 
degradation, appears without bounds. Of all the re* 
ligions which have operated upon the human mind, 
Christianity alone has the consistent character of per- 
fect truth i all its parts are arranged with the most 
beautiful symmetry ; and its grand effects have been 
constantly connected with virtuous gratification, with 
moral and intellectual improvement, with the present 
and future happiness of man." 

This, I may remark, is a fragment, stopping at the 
commencement of a new sentence, — 

" The existence of a Supreme Being,'* &amp;c. 

Relative to the extracts which follow, I need pre- 
mise but little. Those of greatest length appear as 
if written in preparation for lectures, whilst the very 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 369 

short ones may be considered as thoughts noted down 
to be arrested in passing. 

" For the human mind is always governed not by 
what it knows, but by what it believes j npt by what 
it is capable of attaining, but by what it desires or 
fears. There had been no demonstration of the 
impracticability of alchemy. The cultivators of this 
delusive art were occasionally visited by splendid 
visions of immortality, of unbounded riches, of inex- 
haustible pleasures. Even their ^1/2^^^ developed 
some unsought-for object partaking of the marvel- 
lous. The instruments of their experiments were 
Tiew. They had produced fire from the mixture of 
cold liquids. They had discovered specifics for 
formidable diseases. They had dissolved the metal^ 
and had produced from liquid mixtures copper, and 
silver, and gold. In an age of enthusiasm, it was 
not to be expected that they themselves should set 
limits to their powers. At a time when even com- 
paratively enlightened men were believers in witch- 
crail and its charms; at a time when that science was 
the chief study which is improperly called meta- 
physics, and which is founded upon an abuse of words, 
and a substitution of unmeaning phrases for the names 
of things ; at a period when Aristotle reigned, and 
was, as it were, a tutelary deity of every professor's 
chair ; at a time when magic was believed, — it could 
not be expected that the alchemical professors should 
be the reasoning sect of the age. We have seen 
their errors, and the present generation has gained 
by their mistakes. They had discoverd a lighl capa- 
ble of guiding them in that dark night of ignorance, 
but they mistook their path. The Ught, however, 
was not 'extinffuished, and it became subservient to 

VOL. I. B B 



370 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

the ends and the views of the chemical philosophers. 
Let it be remembered that I am speaking of the 
speculative alchemists^ such men as Helmont, Helve- 
tius, and Slare ; and not of those vain impostors and 
projectors who made the few secrets of chemistry 
the means of popular delusion : not of those im- 
moral adventurers who travelled through Europe 
imposing upon the credulous and the ignorant ; pro. 
raising every thing, performing nothing; pilfering 
from their dupes, offering them richeS, and reducing 
them to poverty. 

" It was the custom of these trading projectors to 
establish themselves wherever they were unknown ; to 
promise to reveal the art of making the philosopher's 
stone ; to build furnaces ; to rob their employers, 
under the excuse of the necessity of preparation ; 
and, when the time was accomplished beyond which 
they were unable to deceive, to explode their appa- 
ratus, or set fire to the house, and escape in the 
confusion. It is against the vile sect, common in the 
days of Queen Elizabeth, that Ben Jonson directed 
the keen and admirable dramatic satire of • The 
Alchemist,' and they were all akin to the projector : — 

' The doctor — the smoky bearded^ — he 
Will close you so much gold in a bolt's head^ 
And in a turn convey in the stead another^ 
With sublimed mercury that shall mount in the heat. 
And all fly out in fumo.' 

" The passions of these men were low, their pur- 
poses vile and inglorious. The true alchemical phUo- 
sopherSy on the contrary, had often sublime and 
elevated views. The idea of glory was continually 
present to them. To ameliorate the condition of 
humanity, and to support the interests of religion. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 37 1 

were constantly held out as their objects. A spirit 
of unafiected piety generally animates their works ; 
and faith, charity, and brotherly love characterised 
their association. Their credulity was the vice of 
their age ; their errors were the errors natural to an 
infant science; but their industry was unceasing, 
their hopes glorious^ and their discoveries eminently 
useful." 



" At that time, when Bacon created a new world 
of intellect, and Shakspeare a new world of imagin- 
ation, it is not a question to me which has produced 
the greatest effect upon the progress of society — 
Shakspeare or Bacon, Milton or Newton. Shakspeare, 
indeed, has entered with a power that can never be 
imitated into all the recesses oi the human heart ; has 
given infinite delight to all tastes and all conditions 
of society, and painted man, and enabled us to un- 
derstand man. But the influence of these wonderful 
works is limited by the pleasure that they give; 
they, undoubtedly, oflen excite to actions of virtue, 
but their impression is like that of a dream. The 
object of poetry, whatever may be said by poets, is 
more to amuse than to instruct ; the object of science 
more to instruct than amuse. 

" Milton, undoubtedly, has given great enjoyment 
to the imagination by his varied noble and heroical 
thoughts, and lofty and virtuous sentiments ; but his 
influence has been comparatively little extensive. 
Different nations have different opinions ; the most 
superb of his ideas cannot with justice be rendered 
into other languages, and his most exquisite pictures 
have some connection with locality. And even the 
taste is variable ; the capricious and the mutable 

B B @ 



872 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

oppose themselves to any standard. The mixed my- 
thology of religion of Tasso is more delightful to some 
than the pure machinery of Milton ; the bewitching 
paintings of Shakspeare, in which nature appears as it 
really is, offends the Frenchman, who, in tragedy at 
least, demands the eternal sententious and powerful 
declamation, and requires even that the very servants 
should wear the buskin. 

" In natural science there is one language iiniver- 
sally intelligible, — the language of facts ; it belongs to 
nature, and it is permanent as the objects of nature ; 
it is the same to the citizen of Paris and London. 
Whenever the name of Newton is pronounced, it is 
pronounced with reverence ; the name of English- 
man derives glory from it : it is scarcely possible to 
look at the heavens, and read the order which is now 
visible in them, without a sensation of gratitude to 
the great discoverer of their laws. With respect to 
the exertion of talent required in physical science, 
and in works of imagination, it is very difficult to 
estimate the comparative ppwer, genius, and ability. 
The imagination, as it is called, which is merely the 
vivid but vague association of images with passion, 
is principally employed in the one ; the reason, which 
is the association of images according to facts ob- 
served in nature, is the faculty exerted in the other : 
but feeling, and force, and strength, are required for 
both species of exertion. The power of the mind, in 
the fervour of poetical composition, flows like a 
mountain torrent, — sparkling, foaming, beautiful and 
grand ; but passing principally over rocks, and nour- 
ishing only the solitary tree, or the flowers of its 
mossy borders. The energy of the understanding em- 
ployed upon the developement of the truths of na- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 373 

ture has a calm and quiet progress ; in its motion it 
is like the navigable river j it bears upon it ships ; it 
waters a fertile country j and what it wants in beauty 
it possesses in benefit ; what is deficient in rapidity 
is supplied in strength/' 

" The unequal division of property and of labour, 
the difference of rank and condition amongst man- 
kind, are the sources of power in civilised life, its 
moving causes, and even its very soul. 

&lt;&lt; And in considering and in hoping that the human 
species are capable of becoming more enlightened 
and more happy, we can only expect that the dif- 
ferent parts of the society should be more intimately 
linked together by means of philosophy and the arts j 
that they should act as the . children of one parent, 
with one determinate end, so that no exertion should 
be lost, no power rendered useless. In this view we 
do not amuse ourselves, with delusive dreams con- 
cerning the perfectability of the human species, 
the annihilation of labour, disease, and even death : 
but we reason by analogy from simple facts ; we con- 
sider only a state of human progression, rising out of 
its present condition; we look for a bright day, of 
which we already perceive the dawn.*' 



" The union of sentiment and feeling in the dif- 
ferent parts of a people is always connected with im- 
mense . advantages : it forms what may be called the 
national spirit, which is uniformly the source of hap- 
piness and prosperity, of independence and conquer- 
ing energy." 

As in character with this sentiment, I shall insert 
a portion of a letter which he wrote in August, 1807, 

B B 3 



SJ4f MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

to Mr. Poole, relative to the times and his coun- 
try:— 

** The times seem to me to be less dangerous, as to 
the immediate state of this country, than they were 
four years ago. The extension of the French empire 
has weakened the disposable force of France. Bona- 
parte seems to have abandoned the idea of invasion : 
if our government is active, we have little to dread 
from a maritime war, at least for some time. Sooner 
or later, our colonial empire must fall in due time, 
when it has answered its ends. The wealth of our 
island must be diminished, but the strength of mind 
of the people cannot easily pass away ; and our litera- 
ture, our science, our arts, and the dignity of our 
nature, depend little upon external relations. When 
we had fewer colonies than Genoa, we had Bacons 
and Shakspeares. 

" The wealth and prosperity of the country are 
only the comeliness of the body, the fulness of the 
flesh and fat ; but the spirit is independent of them : 
it requires only muscle, bone, and nerve, for the true 
exercise of its functions. We cannot lose our liberty, 
because we cannot cease to think ; and ten millions 
of people are not easily annihilated." 

«* There is scarcely a more dangerous propensity 
than that of attempting universal literature ; of being 
able to criticise all modem books. It increases the 
memory at the expense of the reason ; it supplies the 
graces of conversation, without the labour of thought 
When I peruse some of the descriptions of ancient 
Athens and Rome, I am forcibly reminded of some 
of the societies of modem London. I seem to see 
the parasite clothed in the robes of the moralist ; the 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. SJS 

sffable Jester concealed under the gown of the sacred 
minister of religion. I see men renouncing the dig- 
nity of character, and the greatness of reputation — 
(picture of Athens, that all men were able to quote 
the modern poets — to tell an entertaining tale). It 
was then that the parasite and the jester assumed 
those robes which were worn by the moralist, the 
minister of religion, and the philosopher, and prosti- 
tuted talents that might have been employed to lioble 
purposes, with the hopes of gaining a smile from the 
idle and the vicious, and a murmur of applause from 
the great and luxurious/' 



" The man of genius always feels more power than 
he is able to develope. His stores are too copious to 
be at once poured forth. He requires a great sti- 
mulus, and there is no stronger characteristic of super- 
lative talents than their association with a contempt 
of the popular opinion. By the popular opinion, let 
it not be understood that I mean the decisions of 
taste, the general opinion of mankind made venerable 
by antiquity ; but that opinion which is the vague 
result of caprice, fashion, and imitation — which is 
affected by novelty and quaintness; that opinion 
which prevails in literature as in dress, — which can 
give a momentary effect to the splendid, the brilliant, 
or seductive." 



" We are falling into an error the very reverse of 
that of our ancestors, who compiled and put together 
every thing. We, perhaps, neglect facts too much ; 
or at least, except in chemistry, we are not suflSciently 
attentive to the recording of facts. We are too fond 
of substituting literature for science, talents for in- 

B B 4f 



37^ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

formation^ and wit or brilliant elocution for accurate 
and deep research. Declamation is good where the 
foundations of science are established, but wretched 
and hurtful where these foundations are wanting." 



" Science is more neglected in this than in any 
other age : men are too much taken up in attempting 
to produce the minor arts. The philosophical spirit 
is too much banished from all our forms and all our 
methods ; that spirit which Bacon has characterised 
as the germ of life in the sciences." 



" What is the end of our existence, if it be not to 
investigate the wonders of — to understand the works 
of God; to increase in intellectual power; to form 
the moral law upon an extended view of society ; to 
enjoy the sublime pleasures of reason and ima- 
gination ? As the eye has been made to be delighted 
with the forms of beauty, the ear with sweet sounds, 
has the understanding, the peculiar attribute of man, 
no objects of delight, no enjoyments ? Yes ; it is the 
discovery of truth, the contemplation of the universe, 
the sublime pleasure of understanding that which 
others fear, and of making friends even of inanimate 
objects ; to look back to the origin of things, and to 
the fate of our globe; and to consider those laws 
which create and destroy, and which, acting in infinite 
space, upon innumerable worlds, display the one intel- 
ligence of one mind." 

" The grandest as well as the most correct views 
are those that have been gained by minute observ- 
ation, and by the application of all the more precise 
and accurate methods of science." 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. S77 



** The light from the sun is too bright for our 
organs, till it is reflected from the earth. Divine truth 
requires to be made human truth before it can be 
relished by us." 

" A man should be proud of honours, but not vain 
of them.*' 



" That light which at first overpowers our organs 
becomes, under the influence of habit, the language 
of the external world ; so it is with science." 



" The brood of the eagle, like that of the bird of 
night, is at first dazzled and pained by the light of 
the sun : the one will not cease to look towards it till 
they can rejoice in its splendour ; but the other uni- 
formly avoid its glorious rays." 

" One of the greatest benefits conferred by experi- 
mental sciences is, that they have given the true pro- 
gression to the mind ; they have appeared as a work 
begun, but not perfected. There is no spirit or feel- 
ing of imitation in them, which uniformly cramps the 
best energies of the mind ; but one desire for extend- 
ing them: and discwery is the great stimulus to 
exertion, is the highest stimulus to inquiry ; and the 
title of discoverer is the most honourable that can be 
bestowed on a scientific man." 



(C 



The great use of practical science is discovery." 



378 M£MOIRS OF TH£ LIVE OF 



CHAPTER VII. 

HIS ELEOTBO*OHEMIGAL DISCOVBB IBS. — DECOMPOSITION OF THE FIXED 

ALKALIES. — DANGEBOUS ILLNESS. EXTBAOT OF A LEOTUBE OF THE 

BEV. DB. DIBDIN EXPBESSIVE OF THE FEELING THEN PBEVAILIN6 
T0WABD8 HIM. — BEGOVEBY. •— VEB8ES WBITTEN AFTEB BECOVEBT 

FBOM A DAN6EB0U8 ILLNESS. CONTINUATION OF BIS SCIENTIFIC 

LABOUBS. DECOMPOSITION OF THE ALKALINE EABTHS. EXPEBI- 

MENTS ON THE OTHEB EABTHS. SPECULATIONS ON THE NATUBE OF 

VOLCANOES. — BESEABCHES ON AMMONIA. SPECULATIONS C0N0EBNIN6 

THE ELEMENTS OF BODIES. DECOMPOSITION OF BOBACIG ACID. 

RBSEABCRES ON MURIATIC AND OXYMUBIATIO ACID. CONCLUSION 

THAT OXTMUBIATIC ACID OAS HAD NEVEB BEEN DECOMPOUNDED. 

THBOBY OF CHLOBINE. CONSEQUENCES IN BELATION TO CHEMICAL 

SCIENCE AND THE PBOOBESS OF DISCOVEBY. BESEABCHES ON FLUORIC 

ACID. DISCOVEBY OF EUCBLOBINE&gt; TELLUBATED HYDBOGEN^ AND 

OF A NEW COMPOUND OF PHOSPHOBUS AND HYDBOGEN. 

The year 1807, to which the narrative of my bro- 
ther's life is now brought, was, in his career, an event- 
ful one ; and, in the history of chemical science, is an 
era memorable for the decomposition of the fixed 
alkalies. Almost immediately on entering on his re- 
searches, connected with voltaic electricity, he had 
sanguine expectations of obtaining very important 
results. In a note book kept at that time, bearing 
date August 6. 1800, probably when preparing his 
first paper on the subject, he writes : — 

" I cannot close this notice without feeling grate- 
ful to M. Volta, Mr. Nicholson, and Mr. Carlisle, 
whose experience has placed such a wonderful and 
important instrument of analysis in my power:** — as 
if he had a prophetic feeling of the great discoveries 
he was about to effect by means of it ; and it is curious 
that a query immediately follows respecting potash. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 379 

" Query : Would not potash, dissolved in spirits of 
wine, become a conductor?" And this is succeeded 
by an account of some experiments on the action of 
the pile of Volta on ammonia dissolved in water, 
on a solution of caustic potash, and on muriatic acid. 
Six years after, we have seen, he delivered his first 
Bakerian Lecture ; and, by a strict induction from the 
facts of experiments, developed the principles of elec- 
tro-chemical science, and of the agency of the voltaic 
battery as an instrument of analysis. He then ex* 
presses the hope, that " the new mode of analysis 
may lead us to the discovery of the true elements of 
bodies, if the materials acted on be employed in a 
certain state of concentration, and the electricity be 
suflSciently exalted. For if chemical union,** he 
adds, "be of the nature which I have ventured to 
suppose, however strong the natural energies of the 
elements of the bodies may be, yet there is every 
probability of a limit to their strength j wliereas the 
powers of our artificial instruments seem capable of 
indefinite increase.** 

In I8O7, in conformity with these views of over- 
powering chemical attraction by electrical attraction, 
he instituted a series of experiments on the vegetable 
alkali ; and, after a number of trials, was rewarded 
with the most brilliant success. He began the in- 
vestigation, I believe, in September ; and on the 19th 
of November, he delivered his second Bakerian Lec- 
ture to the Royal Society, containing the results of it. 
It was entitled, " On some New Phenomena of Che- 
mical Changes produced by Electricity ; particularly 
the Decomposition of the Fixed Alkalies, and the Ex- 
hibition of the New Substances which constitute their 
Bases ; and on the General Nature of Alkaline Bodies.** 



880 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

I must refer the chemical reader who wishes to 
study this lecture to the Philosophical Transactions 
for I8O7. It is well deserving of careful attention, 
both for the novelty of the means employed, the 
magnitude and brilliancy of the results obtained, 
and the simplicity with which they are described. 
A contemporary writer considers this paper ** as the 
most valuable in the Philosophical Transactions, since 
the time when Sir Isaac Newton inserted, in that 
celebrated collection, the first account of his optical 
discoveries." * 

As more suitable to this place, and as it will pro- 
bably be more acceptable and interesting to the 
general reader, I shall give his own account of these 
discoveries from a manuscript lecture, which he de- 
livered in the theatre of the Royal Institution, part 
of a course on Electro-Chemical Science, in which he 
rapidly notices the decomposition of the two fixed 
alkalies ; and the train of reasoning by which he was 
guided in pursuing and extending the inquiry. 

" 1 stated," he observes, " in former lectures, the 
experiments which led to the decomposition of all 
known compounds by electricity. From these ex-i 
periments it immediately became a matter of in- 
quiry, whether the same energetic power might not 
separate the elements of bodies as yet not decom^- 
pounded by other means. An agent by which even 
the firmest aggregation was destroyed^ by which 
stones and rocks were broken down» it was easy to 
conceive might evolve new elements ; and, on the 
electro-chemical theory, the powers on which com- 
position depend must be limited; whereas. the powers 

* Edinburgh Review^ voLxii^ 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 381 

of our artificial instruments were capable of indefinite 
increase. 

" I mentioned that acids are attracted in the vol- 
taic circuit towards the positive side; that such of 
these as are of known composition contain a great 
excess of oxygen ; and, when they are decomposed 
by electricity, their inflammable matter always passes 
to the negative surface, and their oxygen to the 
positive surface. Now all the bodies of known 
composition, that passed to the negative surface, 
were either inflammable, or contained an excess of 
inflammable matter; such, for instance, are the 
metals, metallic oxides, and ammonia. It was, 
therefore, an obvious question, whether other bodies, 
attracted to the same surface, such as the alkalies 
and alkaline earths, might not be analogous in their 
nature, — not simple bodies,— and containing inflam- 
mable matter. The first substance that I made a 
subject of experiment was potash, the vegetable alkali. 
Many vague and unfounded notions had been formed 
of the nature and composition of this body. It had 
been supposed, by some of the Italian and French 
chemists, to consist of lime and hydrogen. By 
others it had been regarded as containing nitrogen. 
The suspicion strongest in my mind was, that it 
might consist of phosphorus, or sulphur united to 
nitrogen ; for, as the volatile alkali was regarded as 
composed of an extremely light inflammable body, 
hydrogen united to nitrogen, I conceived that pkos- 
phones and sulphur, much denser bodies, might pro- 
duce denser alkaline matter ; and, as there were no 
known combinations of these with nitrogen, it was 
probable that there might be unknown combinations. 



S82 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

In my first trials on potash I used strong aqueous 
solutions. 

" Dry potash is a nonconductoi* : I then employed 
fused potash ; and, in this instance, inflammable mat- 
ter was developed. 

" EXPERIMENTS. 

&lt;&lt; Then a piece of potash moistened ; and, to my 
great surprise, I found metallic matter formed. 

" October 6th. — This matter instantly burnt, when 
it touched water — swam on its surface, reproducing 
potash. 

** In dry oxygen gas, likewise, it burnt into per- 
fectly dry potash. 

" INSTANCE. 

*&lt; Soda was decomposed in the same manner. 

" The earths had been suspected by the elder 
chemists, particularly by Boyle, Becher, and Stahl, 
to be capable of conversion into metallic substances ; 
though they had vainly sought for modes of effecting 
this important desideratum. The celebrated Beig- 
mann had made this inference with respect to barytes. 
This earth is poisonous, and extremely heavy. He, 
therefore, thought that it might be a metallic oxide ; 
and Lavoisier, with his usual acuteness, extended the 
generalisation to lime, magnesia, and other bodies of 
the same class. 

" When I had discovered, in so unexpected a man- 
ner, that potash and soda are metallic oxides^ all the 
former analogies became strengthened to a degree, 
that the question of the nature of the earths was of 
easy solution : but, though so much more like 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 388 

metallic oxides than the fixed alkalies, yet I found 
much more diflBculty in effecting their decompo- 
sition." 

Such is the brief narrative of these important dis- 
coveries ; in the making of which chance was as little 
as possible concerned, and reason as much as pos- 
sible. It is true, that the results were not exactly in 
accordance with expectation : in their extraordinary 
nature they greatly surpassed expectation ; as much 
so, as the new regions discovered by Columbus did 
the old ones he was in quest of. 

Some writers have detracted from the merit of 
these discoveries, by referring them to the means he 
employed, the " enormous batteries," as they have 
been called, which were at his disposal, in the la- 
boratory of the Royal Institution. This is neither 
liberal nor just. Supposing the batteries he em- 
ployed were really enormous, it was at his sugges- 
tion, and with definite objects in view, they had 
been constructed : but the assertion, that they were 
enormous, is not well founded. To effect his pur- 
pose, to bring to bear a sufficient power, he was under 
the necessity of uniting several different batteries ; — 
the highest power he could then command, as he 
himself relates, consisting of twenty-four plates of 
copper and zinc of twelve inches square, 100 plates 
of six inches, and 150 of four inches. 

The extreme delight which he felt when he first 
saw the metallic basis of potash, can only be conceived 
by those who are familiar with the operations of the la- 
boratory, and the exciting nature of original research ; 
who can enter into his previous views, and the analo- 
gies by which he was guided, and can comprehend the 



384 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

vast importance of the discovery, in its various rela- 
tions of chemical doctrine ; and, perhaps not least, 
who can appreciate the workings of a young mind, 
with an avidity for knowledge and glory commen- 
surate. I have been told by Mr. Edmund Davy, 
his relative and assistant, now professor of chemistry 
to the Dublin Society, that, when he saw the minute 
globules of potassium burst through the crust of 
potash, and take fire as they entered the atmosphere, 
he could not contain his joy — he actually danced 
about the room in ecstatic delight ; and that some 
little time was required for him to compose himself 
sufficiently to continue the experiment. 

As to the exact time of the discovery, it is of little 
importance. In his Elements of Chemical Philoso- 
phy, he says he discovered potassium in the begin- 
ning of October, and sodium a few days after ; and^ 
in the lecture already quoted, he mentions for the 
former the 6th of October. - 

Dr. Paris, in his Life of my brother, states that he 
commenced the inquiry on the 11th of October, and 
obtained his great result on the 19th. Dr. Paris 
draws his conclusions from the minutes of the ex- 
periments entered in the laboratory register, taking it 
for granted that no experiments were made but 
those which were entered. In regard to accuracy as 
to the exact time, I suppose there can be no ques- 
tion. It is not easy to conceive how the author 
could be mistaken ; but it is very easy to account for 
Dr. Paris's mistake. My brother might have de- 
scribed his first experiments, as was then very much his 
habit, in a private note-book ; or not at all, as they 
were of a nature not to require minute record, not 
being connected with weight or measure; and he 



SIR HUMPHUY DAVY. 885 

might have had recourse to the public register only 
when he wished to detail conclusive evidence, de- 
rived, perhaps, from a repetition of the experiments. 

Never, perhaps, was a chemical investigation more 
intensely interesting than the one under consider- 
ation ; and never, perhaps, in so short a time were so 
many new and surprising facts developed. The 
Bakerian Lecture in which they are described at- 
tests this most fully; it occupies forty-four quarto 
pages, and almost every page contains a new result 
Notwithstanding it was a first sketch, and relating 
to phenomena altogether new and marvellous, it 
scarcely required any after correction, excepting in 
that part which treats of the volatile alkali j and though 
it was written on the spur of the occasion, before 
the excitement of the mind had subsided, yet it bears 
proofs only of the maturest judgment : the greater 
part of it is as remarkable for experimental accuracy 
as for logical precision. * This is the more worthy of 
notice, as when he composed it he was in a feverish 
state, — the prelude to a severe attack of illness, 
which was very near proving fatal, — and his great ap- 
prehension was, that he should die before he had 
published his discoveries ; in consequence of which 
dread, he applied himself the more unremittingly to 
the task of detailing them. 

The exact cause of this illness, as well as its na- 
ture, was doubtful. In after life he expressed his 
persuasion that it was typhus fever; and that he 
had caught the contagion in one of the great prisons 
of the metropolis, Newgate, which he had visited, at 
a time that a contagious fever existed within its 
walls, for the purpose of suggesting means for disin- 
fecting it. His physicians, however, adopted a dif- 

VOL. I. c c 



386 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

ferent view of his case, as I have learned from one of 
them, his esteemed friend, Dr. Babington, who con- 
sidered the disease as the result of over fatigue and 
excitement from his experimental labours and dis- 
coveries. Be this as it may, it was not only severe, 
but long protracted. He took to his bed about the 
23d of November, and nine weeks after he was only 
just convalescent 

This was a golden period of his life ; every circum- 
stance, even his illness, seemed contrived to add to 
his popularity and fame. Had he been of the highest 
rank in society, greater attention could not have been 
paid to him, more anxious inquiries could not have 
been made after him. When he was at the worst, his 
physicians reported his state concisely in writing, for 
the information of the many who called to ask. In 
a letter now before me, written to his mother on the 
7th December, the reports of the preceding day are 
copied, made at eight in the morning, at noon, and 
at nine in the evening. His physicians attended him 
with the greatest assiduity, and in the most friendly 
and disinterested manner. Two of them, Dr. Babing- 
ton and Dr. Frank, were previously his friends; 
Dr. Baillie, who was called in when his illness was 
most threatening, was not behind them in kindness, 
disinterestedness, and attention, of which ever after 
my brother had a grateful remembrance.* The 

* Dr. Paris in his work has made some statements connected with 
this events which are deficient in accuracy^, and which may deserve to 
he pointed out as characteristic of his manner. I shall suhjoin to them 
Mr. Edmund Davy*s remarks (with which he has favoured me in writ- 
ing)^ who most assiduously and kindly nursed my hrother, aided hy 
Mrs. Greenwood. 

At p. 185. Dr. Paris remarks, descrihing his illness, ** His kind and 
amiahle qualities had secured the attachment of all the officers and ser- 
vants of the establishment, and they eagerly anticipated every want his 



SIR HUMPHUT DAVY. 387 

feeling which existed at this time towards him is dis- 
played in a notice which was printed, — part of the 
Rev. Dr. Dibdin*s Introductory Lecture on the Open- 
ing of the Institution, on the 18th of January, 1808. 
It commences thus : — 

" Before I solicit your attention to the opening of 
those lectures which I shall have the honour of de- 
livering in the course of the season, permit me to 
trespass upon it for a few minutes, by stating the pe- 
culiar circumstances under which this Institution is 
now again opened ; and how it comes to pass that it 
has fallen to me, rather than to a more deserving lec- 
turer, to be the first to address you. 

" The managers of this Institution have requested 
me to impart to you that intelligence, which no 
one who is alive to the best feelings of human nature 



gitaation might require. The housekeeper^ Mrs. Greenwood, watched 
over him with all the care and solicitude of a parent, and, with the ex- 
ception of a single night, never retired to her hed for the period of 
deven weeks." 

On this Mr. Edmund Davy comments thus : — ^^ I cannot speak in 
too high terms of Mrs. Greenwood's attentions on that occasion, hut 
there is no truth whatever in the statement ' that, with the exception of 
a single night, she never retired to her hed for eleven weeks.' The fact 
is, that Mrs. Greenwood and myself generally watched alternate nights 
with your brother during his severe illness." 

In the same page Dr. Paris states, that " youthful reminiscences and 
circumstances connected with his family and friends were the only ob- 
jects which at this period occupied his thoughts, and afforded him any 
pleasure. No Swiss peasant ever sighed more deeply for his native 
mountain than did Davy for the scenes of his early years." On which 
Mr. £. Davy remarks, " Now these statements, though not material, 
were not founded in fact. He very seldom spoke of his friends, more 
rarely of Cornwall ; nor did he once, so far as I heard, express any 
wish either to be among his friends in Cornwall, or to have any of 
them in town. He spoke very little during his severe illness, and that 
little had reference, in general, either to his own wants, or to the circum. 
stances of his medical or other attendants." 

C C 2 



388 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

can hear without the mixed emotions of sorrow and 
delight. 

" Mr. Davy, whose frequent and powerful addresses 
from this place, supported by his ingenious experi- 
ments, have been so long and so well known to you, 
has for these last five weeks been struggling between 
life and death. The effects of those experiments re- 
cently made in illustration of his late splendid dis- 
covery, added to consequent bodily weakness, brought 
on a fever so violent as to threaten the extinction of 
life. Over him it might emphatically be said, in the 
language of our immortal Milton, that 



&lt; I Death his dart 

Shook^ hut delayed to strike.' 

" If it had pleased Providence to deprive the world 
of ^further benefit from his original talents and in- 
tense application, there has certainly been sufficient 
already effected by him to entitle him to be classed 
among the brightest scientific luminaries of his coun- 
try : that this may not appear to be unfounded eulo- 
gium, I shall proceed, at the particular request of the 
managers, to give you an outline of the splendid disco- 
veries just alluded to ; and I do it with the greater 
pleasure, as that outline has been drawn in a very 
masterly manner by a gentleman, of all others, per- 
haps, the best qualified to do it effectually.** 

An outline is then accordingly given, and, in con- 
tinuation, it is added, — 

" These may justly be placed amongst the most 
brilliant and valuable discoveries which have ever 
been made in chemistry, for a great chasm in the 
chemical system has been filled up ; a blaze of light 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 389 

has been diffused over that part which before was 
utterly dark ; and new views have been opened, so nu- 
merous and interesting, that the more any man who is 
versed in chemistry reflects on them, the more he 
finds to admire, and to heighten his expectation of 
future important results. 

" Mr. Davy's name, in consequence of these dis- 
coveries, will be always recorded in the annals of 
science amongst those of the most illustrious philo- 
sophers of his time. His country with reason will 
be proud of him, and it is no small honour to the 
Royal Institution that these great discoveries have 
been made within its walls ; in that laboratory, and 
by those instruments, which, from the zeal of pro- 
moting useful knowledge, have, with so much pro- 
priety, been placed at the disposal and for the use of 
its most excellent professor of chemistry.'* 

Dr. Dibdin continues : — 

" This recital will be sufficient to convince those 
who hear it of the celebrity which the author of such 
a discovery has a right to attach to himself; and yet 
no one, I am confident, has less inclination to chal- 
lenge it To us, and to every enlightened English- 
man, it will be matter of just congratulation, that the 
country which has produced the two Bacons, and 
Boyle, has in these days shown itself worthy of its 
former renown by the labours of Cavendish and 
Davy. 

" The illness of the latter, severe as it has been, is 
now, however, beginning to abate ; and we may rea- 
sonably hope, from present appearances at least, that 
the period of convalescence is not very remote." 

During his convalescence, which was rather long 
protracted, for he was not able to resume his duties 

c c 3 



390 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

as professor till the 12th of March (when he gave his 
first lecture on electro-chemical science) ; his mind 
recovered its energies much sooner than the body ; 
proofs of which occur in a note-book kept at this 
time. It commences " January 24th, in convalescence 
after a confinement of nine weeks by dangerous 
fever, with bilious attacks ; *' with " Hints relating 
to the new discoveries and experiments made by 
H. D. ; *' which are followed by his opinions ** con- 
cerning the elements of bodies." 

During his convalescence he also amused himself 
with finishing a poem which he had commenced some 
years before, and which he now had printed. The 
following is a copy of it, with the heading which he 
then gave it : — 



" WRITTEN AFTER RECOVERY FROM A DANGEROUS 

ILLNESS. 

" Lo ! o'er the earth the kindling spirits pour 

The flames of life that bounteous Nature gives ; 
The limpid dew becomes the rosy flower^ 

The insensate dust awakes^ and moves^ and lives. 

'* All speaks of change : the renovated forms 
Of long-forgotten thing|s arise again ; 
The light of suns^ the breath of angry storms^ 
The everlasting motions of the main. 

'^ These are but engines of the Eternal will^ 
The One Intelligence^ whose potent sway 
Has ever acted^ and is acting stilly 

Whilst stars^ and worlds^ and systems all obey. 

" Without whose power^ the whole of mortal things 
Were dull^ inert^ an unharmonious band. 
Silent as are the harp's untuned strings 
Without the touches of the poet's hand. 

'* A sacred spark created by His breathy 

The immortal mind of man His image bears ; 
A spirit living 'midst the forms of death. 
Oppressed but not subdued by mortal cares ! 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 391 

'^ A genn^ preparing in the winter's frost 

To rise^ and bud^ and blossom in the spring ; 
An unfledged eagle by the tempest toss'd^ 
Unconscious of his future strength of wing. 

" The child of trials to mortality 

And all its changeful influences given ; 
On the green earth decreed to move and die^ 
And yet by such a fate prepared for heaven. 

" Soon as it breathes^ to feel the mother's form 
Of orbed beauty through its jsrgans thrill^ 
To press the limbs of life wil^ rapture warm^ 
And drink instinctive of a living rill. 

" To view the skies with morning radiance bright^ 
Majestic mingling with the ocean blue^ 
Or bounded by green hills^ or mountains white^ 
Or peopled plains of rich and varied hue. 

'* The nobler charms astonish'd to behold^ 
Of living loveliness^ — to see it move^ 
Cast in expression's rich and varied mould. 
Awakening sympathy^ compelling love. 



i&lt; 



The heavenly balm of mutual hope to taste^ 
Soother of life^ afibction's bliss to share ; 

Sweet as the stream amidst the desert waste. 
As the first blush of arctic daylight fair. 

&lt;' To mingle with its kindred, to descry 

The path of power ; in public life to shine ; 
To gain the voice of popularity. 
The idol of to-day, the man divine. 

*' To govern others by an influence strong, 

As that high law which moves the murmuring main. 
Raising and carrying all its waves along. 

Beneath the fuU-orbed moon's meridian reign. 

*' To scan how transient is the breath of praise, 
A winter's zephyr trembling on the snow, 
ChilI'd as it moves ; or, as the northern rays, 
First fading in the centre, whence they flow. 

*^ To live in forests mingled with the whole 
Of natural forms, whose generations rise. 
In lovely change, in happy order roll. 
On land, in ocean, in the glittering skies. 

*' Their harmony to trace, the Eternal cause 
To know in love, in reverence to adore ; 
To bend beneath the inevitable laws, 

Sinking in death, its human strength no more ! 

C C 4 



39^ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

*' Then, as awakening from a dream of pain^ 
With joy its mortal feelings to resign ; 
Yet all its living essence to retain. 
The undying energy of strength dinne ! 

'&lt; To quit the burdens of its earthly days. 

To give to Nature all her borrowed powers, — 
Etherial fire to feed the solar rays, 
Etherial dew to glad the earth with sliowers/* 

Fortunately, his constitution received no permanent 
injury from the disease he had escaped $ and» in con- 
sequence, when his strength was restored, he was 
able to resume, with all his habitual ardour, the train 
of inquiry which had been so suddenly interrupted. 

The prospects which now opened to him m chemir 
cal science were no less brilliant than extensive. It 
was difficult for the imagination to set limits to 
the decomposing influence of Voltaic electricity ; it 
seemed only necessary to increase the size of the bat- 
tery to increase its effect ; and it was not too sanguine 
to suppose that no compound body would be able to 
resist its agency, and that, ere long, by its application, 
all the elements of bodies would be brought to light, 
and the principles of chemical science be established 
in an immutable manner. In the opening lecture of 
the first course which he gave after his recovery, on 
electro-chemical science, contrasting the past with 
the future, alluding to this power, he observes, *• In 
this it will be seen that Volta has presented to us 
a key which promises to lay open some of the most 
mysterious recesses of nature. Till this discovery, 
our means were limited ; the field of pneumatic re- 
search had been exhausted, and little remained for 
the experimentalist except minute and laborious pro- 
cesses. There is now before us a boundless prospect 
of novelty in science \ a country unexplored, but 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, SQS 

noble and fertile in aspect ; a land of promise in phi- 
losophy." 

With these sanguine expectations he again took 
the field, and, through the enlightened Uberality of 
the managers of the Royal Institution and its princi- 
pal members, he was amply supplied with all neces- 
sary apparatus to accomplish his objects. During his 
convalescence a voltaic battery of 600 double plates 
of four inches square was provided, a combination at 
least four times as powerful as any that had been be- 
fore constructed* This was placed at his disposal ; 
and, as he remarks in the lecture last quoted, it was 
provided, " not so much for the purpose of exhibiting 
what was already known, what might be accomplished 
by more simple means, as for the end of new research, 
and with the hope of new discovery : ** and not long 
after, when it appeared advantageous to have a bat- 
tery still more powerful, through the munificence of 
a few individuals, one of 2000 plates' was constructed 
without delay, for the service of science (vide p. 204.) 
Nor were the means of research even limited to this 
powerful instrument ; another presented itself in the 
metallic bases of the fixed alkalies, which promised to 
be hardly less efficient ; and, happily, a chemical pro- 
cess was soon discovered, by MM. Gay Lussac and 
Thenard, for obtaining these substances in large 
quantities, so as to render them perfectly available. 

Of the novel and important objects of inquiry, and 
of the zeal with which he followed them, some idea 
may be formed from the papers which he contributed 
to the Royal Society, from 1808 to 1814, and which 
were published in the Philosophical Transactions. 
The following is a list of them : — 

** Electro-chemical Researches on the Decomposi* 



39"^ MEMOIRS OF TH£ LIFE OF 

tion of the Earths ; with Observations on the Metals 
obtained from the Alkaline Earths, and on the Amal- 
gam procured from Ammonia/' — Read June 30th, 

1808. 

** An Account of some new Analytical Researches 
on the Nature of certain fiodies, particularly the Al- 
kalies, Phosphorus, Sulphur, Carbonaceous Matter, 
and the Acids hitherto undecompounded ; with some 
general Observations on Chemical Theory/* — Decem- 
ber 15th, 1808. 

" New Analytical Remarks on the Nature of cer- 
tain Bodies ; being an Appendix to the fiakerian Lec- 
ture for 1808.'*— February, 1809. 

" The Bakerian Lecture for 1 809 ; on some new 
Electro-chemical Researches on various Objects, par- 
ticularly the Metallic Bodies^ from the Alkalies and 
Earths, and on some Combinations of Hydrogen." — 
November I6th, 1809. 

" Researches 'on the Oxymuriatic Add, its Nature 
and Combinations, and on the Elements of Muriatic 
Acid ; with some Experiments on Sulphur and Phos- 
phorus."— July 12th, 1810. 

** The Bakerian Lecture for 1810, on some of the 
Combinations of Ox3rmuriatic Gas and Oxygen, and 
on the Chemical Relations of those Principles to In- 
flammable Bodies." — November 15th, 1810. 

" On a Combination of Oxymuriatic Gas and Oxy- 
gen Gas.**— February 21st, 1811. 

" On some Combinations of Phosphorus and Sul- 
phur, and on some other Subjects of Chemical In- 
quiry.*'— June 18th, 1812. 

" On a new DetonatingCompound.'* — Nov. 5. 1812. 

" Some further Observations on a new Detonating 
Substance.*' — July 1st, 1813. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 395 

&lt;&lt; Some Experiments and Observations on the Sub« 
stances produced in different Chemical Processes on 
Fluor Spar."— July 8th, 1813. 

" An Account of some new Experiments on the 
Fluoric Compounds ; with some Observations on other 
Objects of Chemical Inquiry.*'— Feb. 13th, 1814. 

I shall not attempt an analysis of these papers ; I 
shall give merely a sketch of the most important facts 
and discoveries which they contain, referring the 
chemical reader to the original for full satisfaction. 
After the extraction of metallic bases from the fixed 
alkalies, analogies of the strongest kind indicated that 
the alkaline earths are similarly constituted, and he 
succeeded in proving this in a satisfactory manner. 
But, owing to various circumstances of peculiar pro- 
perties, he was not able, in his first attempts, to obtain 
the metals of these earths in a tolerably pure and in- 
sulated state, for the purpose of examination* On 
his return to the laboratory after his illness, this was 
one of his first undertakings. He accomplished it to 
a certain extent, by uniting a process of MM. Ber- 
zelius and Pontin, who were then engaged in the 
same inquiry, with one of his own. By negatively 
electrifying the earths, slightly moistened and mixed 
with red oxide of mercury, in contact with a globule 
of mercury, he obtained amalgams of their metallic 
bases ; and by distillation, with peculiar precautions, 
he expelled the greater part of the mercury. Even 
now, in consequence of the very minute quantities of 
the bases which he procured, and their very powerful 
attraction for oxygen, he was only able to ascertain 
a few of their properties in a hasty manner. They 
were of silvery lustre, solid at ordinary temperatures, 



396 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

fixed at a red heat, and heavier than water. At a high 
temperature they abstracted oxygen from the glass, 
and at ordinary temperatures from the atmosphere 
and water ; the latter of which, in consequence, they 
rapidly decomposed. 

The names he proposed for them, and by which 
they have since been called, were, barium, strontium, 
calcium, and magnium, which he afterwards altered 
to magnesium. 

The same analogies were nearly as strong applied 
to the proper earths ; and he attempted their decom- 
position in a similar manner, but not with the same 
success. By the action of potassium, proof was ob- 
tained that they consist of bases united to oxygen ; 
but whether these bases were inflammable substances 
merely, or metallic inflammable substances, was yet 
a problem, which has since been solved by the labours 
of Wohler, Bussy, and Berzelius, Analogy was in fa- 
vour of the latter inference, as was also the circum- 
stance that the bases of these earths are capable of 
entering into union with iron ; and this has been 
confirmed by the inquiries just mentioned, as regards 
the majority of them, all but the basis of silica, which 
still remains doubtful. 

The application of these facts to geology was full 
of promise ^ and he indulged in the hope that they 
might serve to explain not only some of the most 
mysterious phenomena of nature, as earthquakes and 
volcanoes, and the combustion of meteoric stones 
and falling stars, but might ultimately lead to a gene- 
ral hypothesis of the formation of the crust of the 
earth. His ideas on the subject occur in a lecture 
of 1811 ; and I shall insert them here, as they may 
prove interesting to many readers, though he himself 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, S97 

afterwards relinquished them, in great measure, be- 
cause, on examination, he did not find them tally 
with the actual phenomena of volcanic eruption. 

** It appears, from the experiments of Mr. Caven* 
dish, and the observations of Dr. Maskelyne, that 
the specific gravity of the whole earth is at least 
twice as great as that of the known surface. This 
alone might lead one to suspect that it contains 
metallic matter. The specific gravity is above that 
of the earths, and below that of the common metals, 
about the mean which would be produced by alloys 
of the metals of the earths. The eruptions of volca- 
noes are proved, by numerous facts, to be connected 
with the flowing in of water through some subter- 
raneous cavities. And the results of volcanic fires, 
— the oxides of the new metals of the earths are in a 
state of fusion, — and all the efiects are such as may be 
easily conceived, if we suppose them to be the con- 
sequence of the action of moisture and air upon 
metallic bodies, capable of being converted into 
earths by oxidation. Upon no other principle is it 
easy to account for the cessation and renovation of 
volcanic fires, for the enormous quantity of stony 
niatter that they pour forth, or for the intense inflam- 
mation where there is no indication of the presence 
of common combustible materials, or for the usual 
results of combustion. 

" There is in this mass of dry clay a little potas« 
slum and strontium. As long as it is dry it undergoes 
no change ; but let it be acted on by moisture, the 
clay is rent in pieces, and active combustion occurs. 

" This minute effect can give only a feeble idea of 
what might be produced by operations on a great 
scale in nature, in which the waters of the sea or of 



398 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

lakes acted upon immense masses of the metals of 
the earths. In such cases the effects of the explo- 
sion might be well conceived to be felt throughout a 
whole continent, and the lava poured forth might 
cover miles of country ; islands might be raised, and 
hills and mountains elevated. 

" The influence of air and water upon our exist- 
ing land is continually tending to degrade and de- 
compose it ; and our rivers are constantly carrying 
the divided matter of soils into the sea. For this 
principle of decay there must be in nature some 
corresponding principle of renovation; and, if we 
suppose the interior of the globe to be chiefly con- 
stituted by the metals of the earths, this principle 
will be obvious. As the surface above is destroyed, 
the interior must become exposed ; and, from the 
action of water and air, new soils and new earthy 
substances must result, in the place of those which 
have been degraded and carried off; and, in the 
general economy of nature, electrical currents, pro- 
bably the same as those exhibited in the Aurora 
Borealis and Australis, may be the means of disuniting 
infls^mmable matters from oxygen, and separating 
metals from their combinations, so as to preserve a 
constant and uniform relation between the solid, the 
fluid, and the aeriform parts of the globe.*' 

After the decomposition of the fixed alkalies, am- 
monia, or the volatile alkali, became an interesting 
subject of inquiry. The first conjecture my brother 
formed, reasoning from analogy, was, that it might 
contain oxygen in • combination with hydrogen and 
azote. His earliest experiments seemed favourable 
to the idea ; but there was a fallacy in them, and it 
was not confirmed on their repetition. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 399 

Other conjectures respecting the intimate nature 
of the volatile alkali and its apparent elements 
speedily followed, in consequence of two very re- 
markable experiments, — one made by MM. Ber- 
zelius and Pontin; and the other by MM. Gay 
Lussac and Thenard, who, like the Swedish che- 
mists, had entered upon the inquiries in which my 
brother was engaged, relative to the new objects of 
research, at the stage where he had been interrupted^ 
and, with great zeal, activity, and talent, worked the 
rich vein which he had opened. 

MM. Berzelius and Pontin, by negatively electri- 
fying mercury in contact with ammonia, obtained 
an amalgam, which, in water or the atmosphere, was 
resolved into mercury, ammonia, and hydrogen. 

The French chemists, by heating potassium in am- 
moniacal gas, found there was a disengagement of 
hydrogen, a disappearance of ammonia, and the 
formation of a grey compound possessed of peculiar 
properties. These experiments, as soon as known to 
my brother, received his most careful attention ; and 
were subjected to fresh, and very minute and labo- 
rious investigation. The formation of an amalgam from 
ammonia seemed to imply the metallisation of its ele- 
ments. The disengagement of hydrogen in the ex- 
periments of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard, in 
their opinion, indicated the decomposition of potas- 
sium, and that this metal consisted of potash and 
hydrogen. These were problems of the weightiest 
kind ; and it was impossible to say, in regard to doc- 
trine, to what they might lead. 

The results of his researches on the amalgam from 
ammonia were all of a negative and inconclusive 
kind. It could not be obtained without the pre- 



400 MEMOIRS OP THE LIFE OF 

sence of moisture ; its decomposition began as soon 
as it was separated from the influence by which it 
was formed, nor could it be freed from moisture be- 
fore its decomposition was complete. These circum- 
stances interfered with any positive conclusion respect- 
ing the nature of the matter with which the mercury 
had combined constituting its amalgam* The more 
he scrutinised this extraordinary compound, the more 
mysterious it appeared ; it proved a complete chemi- 
cal Proteus, — a mystery throughout; and, were it 
possible for human ability to invent a thing to per- 
plex the understanding, and unsettle systems, it 
would be difficult to imagine a more successful effort 
The perplexing and deeply interesting nature of the 
problem involved in this amalgam, in relation to 
chemical doctrine, is strikingly indicated by the fol- 
lowing queries, which were offered in relation to it ; 
the first, by my brother ; the second, by Mr. Caven- 
dish ; and the third, by M. Berzelius : — 

" Are hydrogen and nitrogen, both metals in the 
aeriform state at the usual temperatures of thie at- 
mosphere, bodies of the same character as zinc and 
quicksilver would be at the heat of ignition?'* 

" Or are these gases in their common form, oxides 
which become metallised by deoxidation ?'* 

" Or are they simple bodies, not metallic in their 
own nature, but capable of composing a metal in 
their deoxygenated, and an alkali in their oxygenated 
state.?*' 

These were refined speculations, flowing from 
minds prepared to reason on the facts, and seeing 
the great importance of their bearings. Twenty-four 
years have now elapsed, and the problem is still un- 
solved. The last conjecture that I have read of 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 401 

rtspectiDg it is, that the amalgam is merely a froth of 
mercury; a most crude and unphilosophical notion.* 

The experiment of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard, 
on the action of potassium on ammonia, was, in its 
results, hardly less mysterious and perplexing than 
the preceding. From the nature of the materials 
employed, it was an experiment of extreme difficulty, 
perhaps the most difficult ever recorded in the an- 
nals of chemical research. The metal had the most 
powerful attraction for oxygen ; potash as powerful 
an attraction for moisture. These were two circum- 
stances interfering with accuracy of results, and there 
were others besides ; some connected with the nature 
of the compound formed by the action of potassium 
on ammonia, and some with the composition of am- 
monia, which had the same effect of perplexing the 
inferences. The labour my brother expended on 
this experiment was extreme ; he repeated it a vast 
number of times, in a variety of forms, and with every 
precaution that his ingenuity could invent. The re- 
suits he obtained were of a mixed kind. They were 
not so conclusive as he could have wished, in relation 
to the nature of azote and hydrogen ; but they were 
amply so in regard to potassium. Nothing could be 
inferred, with any certainty, from them, respecting 
the intimate nature of either of these gases. Their 
nature remained, as they continue at present, un» 
solved problems, fit subjects for speculation and ex- 
perimental research. 

Concerning potassium, however, he arrived at sa- 
tisfactory proof that the experiment did not, in any 
way, warrant the conclusion of the French chemists 

• Dr. Paris, p. 193. 
VOL. I. D D 



•402 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

that it is a compound of potash and hydrogen ; he 
showed that no more hydrogen was produced in it 
than might have come from the ammonia ; that, when 
the compound formed was decomposed by heat, un- 
less moisture was present, there was a deficiency of 
hydrogen in the products nearly equal to the quan- 
tity first produced ; and that the more carefully the 
decomposition was effected, so much the more con- 
formable were the results to the idea that neither po- 
tassium, nor azote, nor hydrogen, had been converted 
in the operation into any simjJer form c^ matter ; in 
brief, that ammonia merely had been decomposed, 
and a compound formed of potassium and the ele- 
ments of ammonia, the proportions of which were 
variable according to the degree of temperature em- 
fdoyed, and the qualities of which compound also 
varied in a corresponding manner.* 

Even on MM. Gay Lussac and Tbasard's own 
data, before he had repeated their experiment, he kad 
no hesitation and no difficulty in rejecting their con- 
clusion, and in showing it to be illogical. He had 
maturely considered the subject previously; in his first 
inquiries into the nature of the bases of the alkalies, 
the idea bad occurred to him, that they might have 
been formed in the experiment, under the galvanic 
influence, by the union of hydrogen with the alkalies. 
If so, it necessarily followed that, on iJieir combus- 
tion, when a large quantity of oxygen was condensed, 
the revived alkalies would be moist from the water 



* What is stated in the text is in accordance with bis latest is^^peti^ 
inents on the action of potassium on ammonia. In a manuscript note 
to his paper of the 15th of December^ 1S08^ he says^ ** From Miiie«x* 
periments made with great care in 18l&lt;5, in tubes of platina, I find that 
ahnost all the potassium can be recovered, and then very little nitrogen 
is lost/' 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 403 

formed ; but the contrary occurred, — the potash and 
soda, formed by burning potassium and sodium, were 
Unusually dry. This simple experiment was conclu- 
sive to his mind against the new metals being hydra* 
retted alkalies. 

Another view he pointed out might be taken of 
them, which was the phlogistic, the same as Mr. Ca^ 
vendish had before taken of all the metals ; viz., that 
they are compounds of hydrogen and unknown bases. 

This view was refined and defensible ; it could 
not have been refuted ; it was admirably adapted to 
explain very many phenomena; very many facts 
were in its favour ; and, for a considerable time, he 
inclined to it, as both bis published papers and un- 
published notes indicate. The following are some of 
these, which, as already mentioned, were begun 
during his convalescence. As a literary curiosity^ 
and record of speculative opinion, I shall tramcribe 
&lt;liem verbatim : «~ 



&lt;c 



My Opinions concerning the Elements of Bodies. 



^&lt; If the electrical energies of bodies be examined, 
oxygen, and all bodies that contain a considerable 
proportion of oxygen, appear to be negative f hydro- 
gen, the metals, and all combustible bodies, positive, 

&lt;^ Amongst the oxygenated bodies, all that are 
sdid are non-conductors ; all the fluid ones are im&gt;- 
perfect conductors. Sulphur, phosphorus, and dia- 
mond *-** sulphur and phosphorus contain hydrogen, 
most likely also the diamond ; and the compounds of 
hydrogen are generally non-conductors. 

&lt;&lt; A new phlogistic theory might be established^ 

D D 2 



404 M£MOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

which would explain all the phenomena, as well as 
the antiphlogistic. 

** Thus, as we know oxygen is a principle possessing 
negative electricity, and hydrogen positive ; and as 
all bodies assembling at the positive contain oxygen, 
so may all bodies assembling at the negative contain 
hydrogen ; and the electricity of oxygen and hydro- 
gen neutralize each other when they are to each other 
as eighty-five to fifteen in weight. 

" Every body considered as a simple combustible 
will/ on this hypothesis, consist of hydrogen, in di£&gt; 
ferent quantities, united to dilOferent bases ; and these 
bases must be negative, but not sufficiently to neu« 
tralize the energy of the hydrogen. 

" Now, when a metal or an inflammable becomes 
increased in weight by the action of air, it may be sup- 
posed to be owing to a triple combination of oxygen, 
hydrogen, and the basis, in which the neutralization 
of energy is more or less perfect according to the 
degree of oxygenation. 

" When an inflammable substance is revived by 
the action of heat or hydrogen, the hydrogen com- 
bines, and oxygen (as in the case of mercury acted 
on by heat) or water is expelled (as in the case of 
the revival of metallic oxides, in Priestley's expenr- 
ments by inflammable air), 

** When a metallic oxide is revived by charcoal, 
&amp;c. the hydrogen of the charcoal displaces the water 
of the metal. 

** When oxide of mercury is revived by charcoal, 
the charcoal retains its hydrogen,. and the oxygen 
from the oxide combines with the compound to form 
carbonic acid ; so that acids, oxides, and alkalies 
are all combinations of water with a metallic basis.'' 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 405 

" THIRD THEORY. 

** Ea:tension and Improvement of the last. 

"May not water, combined with two different im- 
ponderable principles, one acting the negative, the 
other the positive part, constitute oxygen and hy- 
drogen ? and may not these two etherial principles be 
what some excellent electricians have called vitreous 
and resinous electricity ? and may they not form fire 
by their attraction or neutral approximation ? Then, 
whenever they were discharged, water would ap- 
pear ; and if they were discharged when one portion 
of water was in chemical union with other matter, 
there is no reason why the other portion, free from 
elastic matter, should not fix itselfi^ which would ac- 
count for oxydation. 

" There are abundant analogies in favour of hy- 
drogen changing the physical properties of the in- 
flammable solids, and rendering them non-conductors. 

" A minute portion in weight of the basis of potash, 
L e. yi^, solidifies mercury, and the heat produced by 
their union is intense. There may not exist TzyV^F 
part of hydrogen in diamond, and yet it may be ad- 
equate to explanations. Charcoal seems to be non- 
conducting when it does not contain ittzt^Vt^dt part of 
its weight of hydrogen. 

*• If we suppose water simple ; then, 

" Oxygen will be water — 

" Hydrogen, water + 

" The metals,. ..Unknown bases, water -f. 

" Charcoal, 



** Sulphur, 
** Phosphorus, 
**' Nitrogen, 

D D 8 






Unknown bases, water -[• 



406 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

" AcidsL oxides, aika-l tt i u 

,. ^j ! J- Unknown bases, water— . 

lies, and earths, j 

** In this theory all the elements, except water, are 
supposed a: and yJ^ 

But, though defensible, these views were merely 
hypothetical, fitted as he used them, for hints in re- 
search, as they might be true ; but, ti]l proved to be 
so, and reduced to matter of fact, unfit to become the 
doctrines of science. 

The history of opinion relative to the metals of the 
fixed alkalies is a striking instance of the shackled 
state of the mind, how strongly attached it is to old 
notions, how firmly fixed in its prejudices. 

When the discovery of these metals was first an** 
nounced, and their extraordinary properties described, 
especially their extreme lightness and inflamma* 
bility, opposition was immediately made; and one 
hypothesis was advanced after another, to explain 
circumstances which, because never witnessed before 
associated with metallic bodies, were considered as 
anomalous: by some, potassium and sodium were 
called hydrurets; by others, metalloids. These Guides 
have now passed away, and are almost forgotten. 
They were most easily refuted. My brother hav- 
ing shown that potassium and sodium possess the 
most characteristic qualities of metals, as' peculiar 
lu$tre, power of conducting electricity, edacity, com* 
bustibility, power of forming bodies soluble in acid&amp; ; 
having shown that, betweai potassium and platmum, 
the one lighter than ether, the other the heaviest 
body known ; the one as fusible as wax, and inflam*- 
mable on ice, and the other resisting fusion and com«- 
bustion in the strongest heats of the furnace ; haiviiig 
shown that, between them, the other metals form a 
complete chain of union by gradation of properties — 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 407 

the conclusion was irresistible, that they all belong to 
one class ; and that it would be just as philosophical 
to reject arsenic from the class of metals on account 
of its.brittleness, or mercury on account of its fluidity^ 
as potassium and sodium on account of their lightness. 

Fortunately, in science, as in politics, opposition is 
wholesome, and, properly conducted, leads to truth 
and improvement — Veritas est magna et prevalebit^ 
The discussion of the nature of the alkaline metals 
led to the discovery of several interesting particulars, 
and enriched chemistry widi some important &amp;cts, 
especially regarding the combinations of these metals 
with oxygen, and their oxides with water : in regard 
to the latter, proving that potash and soda, so long 
considered simple bodies, are actually double com^ 
pounds and hydrates ; and that the pure oxides had 
never been witnessed till they ware formed directly 
by the combustion of the metals. 

Afber the decomposition of the fixed alkalies, doubt 
naturally spread liiroogh every department of cbe^ 
mistry ; a salutary doubt, prompting further inqwry 
aad scrutiny, by means of the new powers of analysis 
Sulphur, phosphorus, and carbon were, according t(^ 
the antiphlogistic views, considered simple substances; 
but they might be compounds. For the purpose of 
investigating their nature, my brother subjected them 
to many experiments* The results of hi» first expe- 
riments on phosphorus and sulphur were favourable 
tx&gt; the conclusion that these bodies are compounded, 
fiid that they both contain oxygen and hydrogen. 
His latest researches, however, induced him to sup- 
pose that the indications which be had obtained of 
the presence of the ox}rgen and hydrogen were od-» 
easioned by the sulphur and phosphorus operated 

o D 4&gt; 



408 MEMOIRS OF TH£ LIFE OF 

upon not being pure, having been contaminated with 
oxide, or water, or both. 

In the inquiry relative to the nature of sulphur, 
one fact strongly impressed him, and it deserves to 
be kept in recollection, and made the subject of fur* 
ther research. I allude to the large quantity of sul- 
phuretted and telluretted hydrogen which is generated 
when sulphur and an alloy of potassium and t^u-* 
rium are heated together. He considered this result 
as indicating either the decomposition of sulphur, or 
of potassium, or of tellurium, or of all three bodies, 
and one of the strongest facts in favour of a phlogistic 
hypothesis. 

From his experiments on the diamond and charcoal 
be was disposed to infer that a minute portion of 
oxygen is essential to the former, and that hydrogen 
is essential to the latter, — inferences not confirmed 
by later researches, which he engaged in at Florence 
and Rome, and which will be noticed in the sequel. 

Analogy had always indicated the compound nature 
of certain acids, which, up to that time, had resisted 
all attempts to effect their decomposition. These 
adds were the boracic, muriatic, and fluoric. In a 
former part of this work, it has been mentioned how 
he tried bis youthful strength against them, and failed. 
He now returned to the enterprise, and, with the more 
powerful agents which he could bring against them, 
succeeded perfectly. 

The obvious analogy was that founded on the 
dogma of Lavoisier, of oxygen being the acidifying 
principle ; and that as acids, the composition of iwhich 
was kaown, consist of bases and oxygen^ so those of 
unknown composition likewise must. 

With this guide he conunenced his researches, and 



SIR HUMPHRY J&gt;AVY. 409 

he soon had the satks&amp;ction of proving, sts i^orrectness 
in relation to boracic acid: acted, on by the v€iltaic 
battery» it underwent decomposition ; a brown matter 
colleoted at the negative pole, which proved ta be its 
inflammable base ; the same effect on it was produced 
by the action of potassium, from the more powerfid 
affinity of the latter for oxygen ; and the result of 
analysis was confirmed by synthesis. By heating 
boron (as the inflammable base was called) in oxygen, 
it burnt, and was reconverted into boracic add. 

Here we have an instance of the beneficial efiS^cts 
of analogy aiding the discovery of truth, and the ex* 
tension of science. In the inquiry which he instituted 
into the nature of the muriatic acid, we have a con- 
trary instance how a plausible analogy may be felse, 
and lead to error, and tend to shackle science, and 
prevent the advancement of knowledge ; and how (as 
he himself remarks in an early lecture on chlorine) 
&lt;^ in the physical sciences there are much greater ob« 
stacles in overcoming old errors than in discovering 
new truths J the mind, in the first case, being fet* 
ter©4 in the last perfectly free in its progress.'* In 
accordance with what Bacon says, that *^ if false facts 
in nature be once on foot^ what through neglectof 
examination, the countenance of antiquity, and the 
use made of thepa in discourse, they are scarce ever 
retracted.** * He entered upon the inquiry, not; 
doubting the correctness of the analogy ; not doubt- 
ing that the muriatic acid gas, up to that time, had 
not been decomposed; that it probably contained 
oxygen as an acidifying principle united to some base; 
|i^d that oxymuriatic acid gas (as chlorine was then 

* De Augmetitia Sdentiamm^ |&gt;; &amp; 



410 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

called) is a compound of muriatic acid gas and oxy- 
gen loosely united. 

His object was to obtain the supposed base of mu- 
riatic acid, to separate the oxygen it was suj^iosed to 
contain, and insulate the substance of which he was 
in quest : all his attempts were ineffectual. Most per- 
plexing and anomalous results occurred. To account 
for them on the old hypothesis, it was necessary to 
suppose that water is essential to muriatic add gas ; 
and that muriatic acid without water or oxygen, in 
brief uncombined, had never been witnessed. 

Arrived at this stage of the inquiry, he reviewed 
the subject in its details ; vigorously threw aside all 
preconceived notions, and came to the conclusion 
that oxymuriatic acid gas, according to the opinion 
of Scheele, who discovered it, is a simple substance ; 
that it is analogous to oxygen, and forms muriatic 
acid gas by union with hydrogen. I know no train 
of chemical inquiry more interesting and instructive 
than this, and better deserving of being carefully 
studied. It is a model, as it appears to me^ of re- 
search and reasoning, and a beautiful instance of the 
gradual developement of an important truth, which 
was the beginning of a very beneficial reform in doc- 
trine. This, indeed, was a remarkable time in the 
history of chemistry ; a general revolution was on the 
eve of taking place ; and my brother performed a part 
in relation to the dogmatism and false doctrine of the 
French school, very similar to that which the founder 
of this school, the illustrious Lavoisier, performed hi 
regard to the Stahlian hypothesis, — a part, it is eai^y 
to conceive, Lavoisier himself would have acted, had 
he been guided by the same lights; — admitting nothing 
to be proved which was not proved ; calling w4iat was 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 411 

doubtful, doubtful; considering the bodies which 
were not decomposed as simple substances ; rejecting 
unknown or imaginary principles ; and, in brief, fbU 
lowing as strictly as possible that method of philoso* 
phising which is known by the name of inductive, 
to which modem science, without doubt, owes much of 
its excellence^ and without which science would soon 
become little better than a romance,— a motley and 
vain assemblage of opinions, fancies, and facts. I 
shall now place before the reader a brief sketch of 
this inquiry, as it forms one of the most important 
parts of my brother's scientific labours, and, in rela- 
tion to doctrine, the most important and original. 

He began the investigation by attempting the de* 
composition of muriatic acid gas by means of potas*- 
Slum. The action of the metal on the acid was 
Tiolent, e^n to inflammation* Hydrogen gas was 
produced, about the same quantity as if the potas^ 
slum had acted on water, and a white salt was formed; 
and the results were precisely the same, however 
car eiuUy the muriatic acid gas was dried. In this 
experiment the hydrogen was supposed to have come 
from water adhering to or belonging to the muriatic 
acid gas. 

The next step was to endeavour to obtain muriatic 
acid free from water, so as to be in a more favourable 
state to be acted on. The decomposition of dry 
auriates was attempted, by intensely heating them 
with dry phosphoric and boracic acid, but without 
effect ; and equally without effect with silica ; though, 
when aided by moisture, muriatic acid gas was disen^ 
g^ed in die greatest abundance. 

Tbese experiments failing, he directed his attention 
to oxymuriatic acid gas, and endeavoured to obtain 



41S MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

dry muriatic acid by means of sulphur and phospho* 
rus ; supposing that these inflammable substances^ 
with a strong attraction for oxygen, would combine 
with it, and that the acid would be detached. But 
the result did not correspond to this idea : no sepa- 
ration occurred, but new combinations; sulphur 
formed, with oxymuriatic acid gas, a liquid volatile 
compound, and phosphorus two compounds; one 
liquid, and one solid ; both volatile* 

The next trial to be mentioned w^us a most im^ 
portant one. Having prepared a piece of charcoal 
by intensely igniting it in an exliausted globe, by 
means of the voltaic battery, and having dried oxy^ 
muriatic acid gas carefully by means of anhydrous 
muriate of lime, he passed the gas into the globe, and 
repeated the ignition of the charcoal. No ch^ige 
occurred ; the charcoal gave no signs of combustion j 
the chlorine remained perfectly unaltered. 

It was now he began to doubt the very existence 
of oxygen in oxymuriatic acid gas. If it contained 
oxygen, why was it not separated by a substance 
most strongly attracting it, aided by an intense heat, 
and without any interfering cause to prevent or dis- 
guise the result ? 

He did not rest here, but instituted other expe- 
riments on the same plan. In Libavius's liquor, or 
the volatile muriate of tin, dry muriatic acid was. 
supposed to be united with oxide of tin, in the same 
manner as it was supposed to be united with dry 
phosphoric acid in the solid compounds already men^ 
tioned, formed by the action of phosphorus on oxy- 
muratic acid gas. If this view were true, it was pro- 
bable that ammonia would effect the decomposition 
of these bodies ; that it would unite with the rait* 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 413 

riatic acid, and that, by the application of heat, the 
muriate of ammonia would sublime, and oxide of tin 
and phosphoric acid be obtained. Such were not the 
results ; both were perfectly new, and unexpected ; 
the ammoniacal gas united with the liquor of Libavius, 
and formed a solid volatile compound ; it united also 
directly with the phosphoric sublimate, and formed a 
solid fixed compound, having a great deal of the cha- 
racter of an elementary substance, and which, had it 
been found ready formed in nature, might have 
passed for a new earth or oxide. 

It had been previously asserted that, when ammo- 
niacal gas and oxymuriatic acid gas are mixed toge- 
ther, water is formed by the mutual decomposition of 
the acid gas and of part of the alkaline. This was 
in accordance with the idea of loosely combined 
oxygen in oxymuratic acid gas. He repeated the 
experiment, but could procure no water ; the pro- 
ducts were dry muriate of ammonia, and some free 
azote« 

The last experiment in the chain of evidence re- 
lated to muriatic acid gas. Mr. Cruikshank had 
shown that when about equal parts of hydrogen 
and oxymuriatic acid gas are mixed, they produce a 
compound almost entirelycondensible by water. MM. 
Gay Lussac and Theriard, who had been ably inves- 
tigating the nature of muriatic acid, at the same time 
that my brother was so employed, and who had ob- 
taitied many results similar to his, and some of much 
^^sine peculiar to themselves, stated that this matter 
was 'muriatic acid gas, and that no water is deposited 
in&gt; ti)e operation. This experiment he very carefully 
repeated^ and the results he obtained confirmed 
those cf the French chemists ; the more care was 



414 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

taken in drying the gases, the mercury, and the ves- 
sels, so much the less condensation was observed ; 
admitting of the conclusion, that were foreign mois- 
ture excluded entirely, one volume of hydrogen and 
one of chlorine, on union, would form exactly two of 
muriatic acid gas. 

Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard, by their re- 
searches, had satisfied themselves that in all the de- 
compositions in which oxygen was expelled, in 
which oxymuriatic acid gas was concerned, water or 
some other body was present known to contain oxy- 
gen. They stated, therefore, that oxymuriatic acid 
gas might be considered a simple substance ; that 
the phenomena relating to it admitted of being ex« 
plained on that hypothesis $ but at the same time they 
gave the preference to the view of it in accordance 
with the doctrines then prevalent, that it is a com- 
pound. 

My brother also having satisfied himself of the truth 
of this, and further, that water cannot be obtained 
from muriatic acid directly, only by means of bodies 
known to contain oxygen, he considered the ex« 
istence of water in it, and of oxygen in ox3rmuriatic 
gas, as hypothetical assumptions ; and preferred the 
original view of Scheele as an expression of facts — ^viz. 
that oxymuriatic acid gas is an undecompounded or 
simple substance, and muriatic acid gas a compound 
of it and of hydrogen. Such is the train of research 
and argument which led to this important conclusion ; 
it was merely a returning to the first principles of 
modern chemistry — those by which the phlogistic fay* 
pothesis had been overthrown, which, as modified by 
Mr. Cavendish, might be defended as an hypothesis, 
but could not be maintained as a statement of fiK^ts. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 415 

Thus is it, also, with the doctrine of oxymuriate acid 
gas ; with as much propriety may metals be called 
compounds of bases which have never been obtained 
separate and phlogiston or hydrogen, as oxymuriatic 
gas called a compound of a base which has never 
been procured apart and oxygen. My brother did 
not assert that oxymuriatic gas is an element, a real 
indestructible principle, no more than he did that the 
metals are such elements : he merely held that the one, 
like the others, is in our arrangements to be viewed 
as dementary in the modem acceptation of the term, 
as long as it remains undecompounded, this being 
the only practical criterion of an elementary body. 

From this point, the inquiry relative to oxymu« 
riatic acid gas may be considered as having taken 
another and novel direction — a course which con- 
ducted to new researches, and brilliant and important 
discoveries, both in relation to the facts and doctrines 
of science. 

As soon as he had satisfied himself of the above 
conclusion, that there was no evidence for the de* 
composition &lt;^ oxymuriatic gas, that it required to 
be received as a simple substance, it was natural for 
him to inquire, to what class of bodies it belongs ; 
that is, to what other substances its properties are 
most analogous. By a careful examination of ite 
properties, he inferred that it is more analogous to 
oxygen Uian to any other substance: thus, in its 
electrical relations, like oxygen, it is powerfully at- 
tracted by the negative pole of the voltaic battery ; 
in relation to heat and light, like oxygen, combustion 
id a frequent accompaniment of its entering into cmn- 
bsBfltioa; like oxygen, also, though not acid in 
itself, k forms acid matter by union with inflammable 



416 M£MOIRS OP THB LIF£ OF 

iiubstances. He proposed, therefore, to class it witib 
bxygen, as a supporter of combustion and acidifying 
principle ; ~^ using the term, not in the original atid 
istrict acceptation as emplo3red by Lavoisier, but 
mer^y as convenient expressions in connection with 
classification, in the same manner as the term inflsmi- 
mable is applied to the bodies with which ti^ey unite, 
and in the act of uniting with which, inflammatioii 
is produced* 

This classification was productive ofihe best ^K^cts ; 
it broke down a great barrier of doctrine that had ift 
a manner been consecrated hy the genius^ of Lavoisier ; 
it did away with an exclusive principle of acidity and 
combustion ; it dispersed a thick mist of prejudice 
through which chemists had been in the habit of view^ 
ing the phenomena of science ; removed all obstacles 
to the natural arrangement ; and, as we shall see here* 
after, led to a great extension of chemical sciienciB. ' 

As the name, oxymuriatic gas, was tdtally ubap^ 
propriate to the substance to Which it' was ^applied, 
whether considered in its composition or properties^ 
it was necessary to discontinue it ; and my bfotiier 
proposed as a substitute for it that of chlorine, ^ 
name independent of speculation, derived merily 
from the colour of the gas. On the same princi|^ 
of avoiding a speculative nomenclature, he proposed 
to designate the combinations of chlorine by th^ 
names of their bases with the termination ane f a pro- 
position which, perhaps wisely, has not been followed,- 
as it would have been very inconvenient in use, pw- 
plexing the mind like a short-hand character^ 

Having now given a brief sketch of these reseasdieis^ 
I have nearly performed my task in relation to them* 
His views were readily adopted by the most eminent 



J 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 41? 

chemists of Europe ; and, with a few exceptions, in 
less than two years from their promulgation^ they 
were very generally received and taught in the 
schools* This was no more than might have been 
expected in an enlightened age, considering the 
nature of these views, their simplicity, the facility 
with which they explained phenomena, the induce^ 
foents they held out to further research, and the pro-&gt; 
mise they afforded of further discoveries. 

The only individual I need mention, who re* 
sisted with any pertinacity, and made a protracted 
defence of the old doctrine, was Mr. (afterwards Dr.) 
Murray, an ingenious lecturer on chemistry in Edin- 
burgh, who^ I bdieve, never gave up his early opinion, 
that chlorine is a compound of muriatic acid and oxy* 
gen ; or rather, his modified opinion, that it is a com- 
pound of oxygen and dry muriatic acid. In support 
of the old doctrine, he published a series of papers in 
Nicholson's Journal, which my brother delegated me 
to answer^ The controversy, as most frequently hap« 
pens, was conducted with unnecessary warmth and 
asperity ; however, it was not unproductive of good. 
It brought the subject strongly before the philosophical 
public, and was probably instrumental in deciding the 
question sooner than if the new doctrine had encoun- 
tered no active opposition. And, what was more im- 
portant, it was the means of bringing to light two 
gases, which, till then, had not been known : — £u- 
chlorine, a compound of chlorine and oxygen, which 
was discovered by my brother, in January 1811 ; and 
Phosgen, a compound of chlorine and carbonic 
oxide,, which I discovered the same year. Both 
these gases, there is reason to suppose, were present: 
9iad acted in Dr. Murray's experiments, without his 

VOL. I. E E * 



418 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

knowledge of the circumstance, and gave rise to re- 
sults of a deceptive character. After an interval of 
twenty-five years, I have much pleasure now in 
looking back on this happy period of my life, when 
the whole of my time was devoted to chemical 
studies and pursuits in their most interesting and al- 
luring form ; and, I can never forget the lively inter* 
est my brother took in what I was doing. When I 
ascertained the existence of phosgene gas, he was 
out of town. On his return I related to him all the 
particulars, and I am quite sure he felt more pleasure 
than if he had made the discovery himself. I shall 
be excused, I trust, for mentioning this little incident 
connected with myself, as it tends to display his warm 
sympathy in the success of others. 

His researches relative to fluoric acid, which were 
commenced at the same time as those we have just 
been considering relative to the muriatic acid, did 
not make the same rapid progress, nor were the re. 
suits equally successful. This arose from the nature 
of the subject. When he began the inquiry in 1808, 
the knowledge chemists possessed of fluoric acid and 
its combinations was imperfect and vague ; his first 
experiments, on this account, were of little avaiL 
When he resumed the inquiry in 1813, the difficulties 
just alluded to were in great measure removed ; a 
great deal of precise information had been collected 
respecting the fluoric compounds. It was proved in 
a satisfactory manner, that there are distinct forms 
of acid, capable of being obtained from fluor spar ; 
one liquid, called fluoric acid, and two aeriform; 
one named silicated fluoric acid gas ; the other, fluo- 
boradc acid gas, as from the former silica was pro- 
curable, and from the latter boracic aoid. Now, 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 419 

obstacles of a different description presented tbem« 
selves, arising out of the peculiar properties of 
the compounds themselves. The liquid acid is of 
a very unmanageable nature ; it is not confinable 
in glass ; and it acts even in vapour on the skin so 
powerfully that it is not easy to experiment on 
it, without suffering from its violent acid and cor* 
rosive qualities. The gaseous compounds, it is true, 
are more tractable ; but their compound nature tends 
to render the results obtained in operating on them 
more or less obscure ; and the fluoric element which 
they contain, as soon as liberated, exhibits, even more 
strongly marked than the liquid acid, a character of 
intractableness, in consequence of which its precise 
nature, and that of the fluoric combinations, are still 
problematical. 

My brother's researches relative to the fluoric com- 
binations owe much of their interest to these diffi* 
culties. The perusal of them will well repay the 
chemical reader ; in point of ingenuity and original 
invention, they are not inferior to those on chlorine; 
and it is not easy to find a more striking instance of 
the aid of analogy in directing experiment, and of the 
necessity and advantage of trying the truth oi anak&gt;gy 
by experiments. 

He enters on the inquiry by pointing out three 
hypotheses, which may be framed in accordance with 
the then known facts on the nature of the fluoric 
combinations, and which may be enumerated, to con- 
firm what has been said of the great difficulty and 
odbficurity of the subject : — 

^&lt; In the first, which is that generally adopted, the 
ilicated fluoric acid gas is supposed to be a compound 
of silica and a peculiar acid, itself consisting of in- 

E E f2 



420 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

flammable matter and oxygen ; fluo-boracic acid gas» 
a compound of boracic acid and the same acid $ and 
pure liquid fluoric acid, as water combined with the 
acid. 

^* In the second hypothesis, the silicated fluoric 
acid is conceived to consist of a peculiar undecom-. 
pounded principle, analogous to chlorine and oxygen» 
united to the basis of silica ; the fluo-boracic acid of 
the same principle united to boron, and the pure liquid 
fluoric acid as this principle united to hydrogen* 

" In the third hypothesis, which probably would 
have been formed by the disciples of the Phlogistic 
School of Chemistry, had they been acquainted with 
the facts, the liquid fluoric acid is considered as an 
undecompounded body, and the metals and in- 
flammable bodies as compounds of certain unknown 
bases with hydr(^en ;• silicated fluoric acid gas, on 
this id^a, must be regarded as a compound of the 
fluoric add with the basi« of silicum, and fluo-boracic 
acid gas as a compcnind of the fluoric acid and the 
basis of boron." • 

He adds, &lt;^ It is not easy to devise simple expe« 
rimefits to ascertain which of these hjrpotheses is 
true ; yet in admitting strict analogical reasoning, it 
is easy to show which is most conformable to the 
general series of chemical facts." And with this ob- 
ject in view his experimental research was conducted^ 

By the action of ammonia on liquid fluoric acid» 
he coul^ obtain no proof of the existence of water 
in it 

By the action of potassium on the fluate of am* 
monia^ no proof was afibrded of the acid being aa 
inflammable base united with oxygen ; the results 

• Phil. Trans. 1815. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 421 

obtained were the same as when potassium is made tck 
act on muriate of ammonia. 

With great difficulty, owing to the energetic 
powers of fluoric acid, he succeeded in submitting it 
to the test of the voltaic battery. And, again, the 
results are most favourable to the idea that it is 
analogous to the muriatic acid, — composed of a prin-* 
ciple, like chlorine, in union with hydrogen. And to 
this view of its nature he gives the preference, con- 
sidering all the phenomena of the experiments, both 
on the liquid acid and the silicated fluoric and fluo- 
boracic acid gases, as most conformable to it* 

Assuming the truth, then, of this analogy, itfoliowed 
of necessity that it was in vain to attempt the decom- 
position of the fluoric acids by combustible substances; 
by means of which only new compounds can be ob« 
tained. Following tlie same process of reasoning, it 
appeared to him probable that the decomposition 
might be effected by oxygen or chlorine ; tliat, a» 
chlorine, under certain circumstances, expels oxygen 
and, under others, oxygen expels chlorine taking its 
place in combination, -^ so one or other of these prin- 
ciples might possibly expel the fluoric principle he 
was in quest of. With this happy idea, he instituted 
many experiments, the results of some of which were 
in accordance with it. Thus^ when chlorine was 
made to act on fluates containing bases which there 
was reason to suppose have a greater affinity for 
chlorine than for the fluoric principlei^ there was an 
effervescence — a decomposition of the fluat, and a 
chloride was formed, and the fluoric principle was 
separated, — but which immediately united itself with 
the matter of the vessel, whether glass or metal. 

He next tried to collect the substance disengaged 

£ £ 3 



422 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

by chlorine, which I have called the fluoric principle, 
so as to obtain it separate ; but in this attempt he 
failed : he could find no vessel capable of holding it 
free. 

However, the proofs of the existence of such a 
principle, analogous to chlorine and oxygen, were so 
convincing to his mind, that he ventured to assign it 
a name, fluorine, that had been proposed by M. Am- 
pere, who, independently of my brother, guided 
merely by analogy, had concluded that such a prin- 
ciple must exist. 

In the brief history of the train of investigation 
which has just been given, relating to chlorine and 
to fluorine, it appears to me instructive to observe 
the pointed diflerence of my brother's views respect- 
ing them ; how he considers the existence of the one 
as an established fact, and how he infers the existence 
of the other only as a probability ; the one substance 
being readily obtained in an insulated state, and easily 
submitted to experiment in this state, and having re- 
sisted every means employed to decompose it ; the 
other substance, on the contrary (if substance it may 
be called), having been examined only in combination, 
neither glass or metal of any kind being capable of 
isolating it ; and, consequently, not within the reach 
of the senses, but a proper subject for analogical 
reasoning. Supposing that chlorine acted on glass 
like the fluoric principle, and as energetically on the 
metals and on water, our knowledge of it would be 
almost precisely similar to that which we possess of 
fluorine ; and now, as in combination the analogy 
between them appears to be complete, it seems most 
reasonable to infer that the two substances belong to 
the same class of bodies. The demonstration, how- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 423 

ever, is wanting; and till the fluoric . principle is 
obtained separate, this inference, reasonable as it is, 
is only conjectural. This should never be lost sight 
of, if a strict logic is to be maintained in relation to 
the doctrines of chemistry, as is most desirable. 

The reader has now before him a brief sketch of 
the most important scientific labours of my brother, 
between 1808 and 1814, but not of the whole of 
them. I have made slight mention of his disco- 
very of a compound of oxygen and chlorine pos- 
sessing very remarkable properties. I have also 
to mention his discovery of two other gases ; one a 
compound of tellurium and hydrogen, and the other 
of phosphorus and hydrogen : and of two solid com- 
pounds ; one composed of water and phosphorus 
acid, or hydrophosphorus acid, which, by heat, is re- 
solved into phosphoric acid, and the phosphuretted 
hydrogen just alluded to ; and the other formed by 
the union of sulphureous acid gas, and nitrous acid 
gas, and aqueous vapour, — a compound which acts a 
very important part in the ordinary process of manu- 
facturing sulphuric acid by the deflagration of sulphur 
with nitre. And even other discoveries might be 
mentioned in addition, which he made during this 
period ; but the mere enumeration of them would be 
without interest ; and the detail necessary to make 
them intelligible and interesting to those who are 
only generally acquainted with chemical science, 
would be here out of place. 

In the next chapter, in which I shall continue his 
personal history, I may have occasion to revert to the 
subject. Sufiicient, and more than enough, I trust, 
has been brought forward, to show how ardently he 
prosecuted science, and how amply he was rewarded 

£ £ 4 



4^4 



MEMOIRS OP. THE XIP£ OF 



with success. He was excited by a noble ambition 
to distinguish himself; and, even when most po- 
pular, he looked beyond the popularity of the hour 
and day. Writing to my mother, in August 1809i 
he says, " At present, except when I resolve to be 
idle for health's sake, I devote every moment to 
labours which I hope will not be wholly inefiectuftl 
in benefiting society, and which will not be wholly 
inglorious for my country hereafter ; and the feeling 
of this is the reward which will continue to keep me 
employed," 



* • 



* % 



' • f 



« &gt; 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 425 



CHAPTER VIII. 

IDBA OF RB8UMIN0 THB MXDIOAL PROFBBSION* — LEOT171IB8 AT THS DtTlk. 

LIN SOCIETY. LBTTER8 TO HIS MOTHER AND BROTHER.-— HIS MAR« 

RIAOE. HIS '^ELEHBNTS OF OHEMICAL PUUiOSOPHY.*' — THE ATOMIC 

TBBOBT. BIB ESTIMATION OF MR. DALTON. NOTICE OF THB GREAT 

VOLTAIC BATTERY OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION. SOME OTHER BZ- 

TRACTS. HIS VIEWS ON CHEMICAL NOMENCLATURE. — CONTINUES HI8 

SCIENTIFIC PURSUITS. IS WOUNDED IN THB EYE IN BZFBBIMBNTINO 

ON A NEW DETONATING COMPOUND OF CHLORINE AND AZOTE. •— OB- 
TAINS PERMISSION FROM THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT TO PROOEBD 
THROUGH FRANCE INTO ITALY. 

W^HEN my brother accepted the appointment of Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution, he laid 
aside, for a time, the study of the medical profession, 
and devoted himself exclusively, as we have seen, to 
scientific research. Now that he had attained dis- 
tinction as an original inquirer, and a great degree of 
popularity, especially in the higher circles of London 
society, he appears to have had it in contemplation to 
resume his professional studies, with the view to en- 
gage in medical practice as a physician. For this 
purpose he entered his name at Cambridge, and kept 
some terms there. He was probably induced to 
form this plan by a prospect of fortune, in a profes- 
sional career, infinitely greater than he had any right 
to expect from the mere prosecution of science. 
From the latter he derived a competency, and little 
more; from the other, he might calculate on 
making an independence, and on acquiring means 
of his own for prosecuting his favourite pursuits. 
Moreover, I have little doubt, that with his sanguine 



426 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

temperament and enlarged views, he might at this 
time have anticipated discoveries in medicine, not 
inferior to those which he had already made in che- 
mistry; flattering himself with the hope of becoming, 
in a double sense, the benefactor of his fellow men. 
But science had too strong a hold on his affections to 
allow him to carry into effect this plan ; and with- 
out any struggle, I believe, he gave it up : he must 
have been convinced, on reflection, that' he could 
'not have followed it successfully, in regard to for- 
tune, without making an entire sacrifice of science. 

During the period he continued to lecture in the 
Theatre of the Royal Institution his popularity was 
constantly increasing, and the size of his audience 
•kept pace with it. Latterly it was scarcely less than 
1000. His lectures were so attractive, that had he 
ichosen to have retired from the Institution, like his 
'predecessor. Dr. Garnet, and to have opened a course 
on his own account, he might probably have acquired 
a large income. But he bad a greater pleasure in 
giving his support to an establishment which he con- 
sidered useful to society, with which he associated his 
fame, and which, without his exertions, would have 
had but a short-lived existence. 

In consequence of his reputation and discoveries 
he was twice invited to deliver courses of lectures to 
the Dublin Society successively, in 1810 and 1811 ; 
and I may here introduce some extracts from a copy 
of the minutes of the Society, for which I am in- 
debted to Mr. E. Davy, recording the manner in 
which the invitation was given, and the impression 
which his lectures made. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. '%t7 

" From the Proceedings of the Dublin Society^ 

May 3. 1810. 

" Resolved J — That it is the wish of the Society to 
communicate to the Irish public in the most extended 
manner (consistent with the engagements of the So- 
ciety), the knowledge of a science so intimately con- 
nected with the improvement of agiiculture and the 
arts, which it is their great object to promote ; and 
that, with this view, it appears to them extremely de- 
sirable to obtain the fullest communication of the 
recent discoveries in electro-chemical science which 
have been made by Mr. Davy. 

" Resolved^ — That application be made to the Royal 
Society, requesting that they will be pleased to dis- 
pense with the engagements of Mr. Davy*, so far as 
to allow the Dublin Society to solicit the favour of 
his delivering a course of electro-chemical lectures in 
their new laboratory, as soon as may be convenient 
after the present course of chemical lectures shall have 
been completed by their professor, Mr. Higgins. 

'* Resolved^ — ^That the sum of 400 guineas be appro- 
priated out of the funds of the Society, to be presented 
to Mr. Davy, as a remuneration, which they propose 
him to accept, and as a mark of the importance they 
attach to the communication they solicit." 



" Mr. Davy arrived in Dublin, and delivered his 
course of lectures to a crowded auditory. At the 
close of his lectures the following resolutions were 
passed : — 

" Nov. 29. 1810. Resolved,— Thzt the thanks of 
the Society be communicated to Mr. Professor Davy, 

* He was at this time Secretary to the Royal Society ; an appointment 
he obtained in 1807^ and held till 1812. 



4ii8 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

fbr the excellent courae of lectures which, at their 
requesli, he has delivered in their laboratory ; and to 
assure him, that the views which led the Society to 
seek for these communications have been answered 
even beyond their hopes j that the manner in which 
he has unfolded his discoveries has not only imparted 
new and valuable information, but, further, appears 
to have given a direction of the public mind towards 
chemical and philosophical inquiries, which caAiiot 
fail in its consequences to produce the improvement 
of the sciences, arts, and manufactures in Ireland.'* 



" June 13, 1811. Resolved^^— That a letter be writ- 
ten to Mr. Professor Davy, requesting him to favour 
the Dublin Society and the Irish public with a further 
communication of the recent discoveries in chemical 
philosophy, and to deliver a course of lectures in 
their laboratory for that purpose, in the months 
November and December next ; and requestiDg that 
he will also repeat to them, at the aame time, the 
course of lectures in geological science which he 
has read this year to the Royal Institution; and 
that he will be so good as to procure for the Society 
copies of as many of the geological sketches rt^ferred 
to in that course as he may think necessary for the 
elucidation of the subject ; and further xequesting 
him to superintend the ccmstruction of a voltaic bat' 
tery of large plates, for the use of the Society, to be 
transmitted to them in time for these lectures/' 



"Dec. 5. 1811. Resolved vnanimomlyy — That th§ 
thanks of the Society be communicated to Mr. Pavy, 
fiKT the two excellent courses of lectures in chemical 
and geological science which, at their request, he 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 4S9 

has delivered in their laboratory, full of valuable in*- 
fbrmation ; and which have not merely continued, but 
materially increased, the spirit of philosophical re- 
search in Ireland. 

** Resolved tmanimoushf, — That Mr* Davy be re- 
quested to accept the sum of seven hundred and fifty 
pounds, as a remuneration on the part of the Society." 

At the same time, the degree of LL.D. was con- 
ferred on him by Trinity College, Dublin. A letter 
written to my mother, after his arrival in Ireland, in 
1811, previous to the commencement of his lectures, 
will give a more lively idea of the estimation and 
regard in which he was held. 

&lt; * 

" Balina^ Ireland^ Oct 24*. 

•• My dear Mother, 

&lt;* I am safe and well, in a remote and beautiful part 
of Ireland, where I have been making an excursion 
with two of my friends. 

*&lt; I shall return to Dublin in two or three days, and 
fiball be very glad to hear from you or my sisters 
there. I hope you are all well and hajqiyj 
. ** I heard from John a few days ago j he was quite 
well and in good spirits. 

•* The laboratory in Dublin, which has been enlarged 
so as to hold 550 people, will not hold half the persons 
who desire to attend my lectures. The 550 tickets 
issued for the course by the Dublin Society, at two 
guineas each, were all disposed of the first week; and 
I am told now that from ten to twenty guineas are 
offered for a ticket 

\ *« This is merely for your eyi j it may please you to 
know that your son is not unpopular or useless. 



430 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Every person here, from the highest to the lowest, 
shows me every attention and kindness. 

&lt;^ I shall come to see you as soon as I can. I hear 
with infinite delight of your health, and I hope Heaven 
will continue to preserve and bless a mother who 
deserves so well of her children. 

^&lt; I am your very affectionate son, 

" H. Davy. 
" My kindest love to my sisters and aunts.'* 



When his lectures were concluded, he wrote to me 
to the same efiect. In a letter, dated December 1st, 
he says, — 

" I have nearly finished my business here : my 
lectures have been received with the highest interest, 
and the tone of hospitality, kindness, and respect 
towards me is even higher, if possible, than last 
year." 

At this period he may justly be considered at the 
height of his popularity, and perhaps of his happi- 
ness. He had earned an unsullied and noble repu- 
tation ; he was loved and admired by friends, who had 
cheered him on in his career ; he had hardly passed 
the prime of manhood * ; he was in possession of ex- 
cellent health ; he had open to him almost every 
source of ordinary recreation and enjoyment ; and he 
had, besides, the unfailing pleasures derived from the 
active and successful pursuit of science. His letters 
written at this time, such as I have had an oppor- 
tunity of consulting, strongly mark a happy content- 
ment, as well as a very amiable and affectionate 
state of mind. I more particularly allude to those 
which he addressed to his mother and sisters, and 

* In 1811 he was 3S. 



sill HUMPHRY DAVY. 4S1 

to myself. After spending three years with him 
at the Royal Institution, we parted in the autumn 
of 1811 ; he to proceed to Ireland, and I to com- 
mence my medical studies in Edinburgh. Many 
years older, the interest he took in me more re- 
sembled that of a father than of a brother ; and it is 
with peculiar pleasure I now reflect on his various 
kindnesses ; my numerous obligations (many of which 
were delicately concealed at the time, as I have since 
learnt from his correspondence with my mother); 
his valuable hints and generous encouragement in 
regard to my studies, leaving me free to follow the 
bias of my own mind ; and his excellent advice in 
respect to my conduct, in which was always infused 
a native nobleness of sentiment, well adapted to stir 
up virtue in a young mind. In illustration of this&gt; 
I shall give a portion of a letter which I received 
from him from Dublin. In relation to himself, I 
could have wished to have given the whole, it is so 
strongly expressive of his natural goodness and kind- 
ness of disposition, and of his high and delicate 
sense of moral rectitude, but it is too flattering in 
regard to myself; and even part of what I give is of 
this description, written by one who knew that the 
voice of praise is one of the strongest incentives ta 
virtue, and that a certain degree of self-respect is one 
of the best securities against moral degradation. 

'' Dublin, Oct. 15. 1811. 

** My dear Brother, 

" I am just arrived, after a short passage ; and I 

have just perused your letter. I shall enclose with 

this as many letters of introduction as a frank will 

hold. Mrs. Appreece has written to Mr. H. Mac 



432 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

kenzie's family, which she thinks the one in Edin- 
burgh that will be most agreeable to you. Call and 
leave your name. You will easily find him. He is 
the author of the « Man of Feeling/ 

" I should not lay much stress upon the advice of 
ia bad logician. # • ♦ • 

You must follow your own plans with respect to 

study. 

* • • * • 

" Pray do not care about the expense, if it adds 
any thing to the comfort or the respectability of your 
situation. If you could board in a respectable family, 
it would, I think, be best. 

" I will, if you like, send you 40/. a year in ad- 
dition to what my mother sends you ; and you may, if 
you please, consider it as a loan, which you shall 
repay when you are a rich physician. 

&lt;&lt; My dear John, let no difficulties^ alarm you. 
You may be what you please. Trust me, I know 
what your powers are. Preserve the dignity of your 
mind, and the purity of your moral conduct. You 
set sail with a fair wind on the ocean of life * * 
• * * • * Move straight 

forward on to moral and intellectual excellence. Let 
no example induce you to violate decorum, —&gt; no ri- 
dicule prevent you from guarding against sensuality 
or vice. Live in such a way that you can always 
say, the whole world may know what I am doing. 

** I am, my dear John, 

" Your ever affectionate Brother, 

** H. Davy.'* 

Soon after my brother'j» return to London from 
Ireland, new prospects opened before him full of 



SIR HUMPHRY lUVY* 433 

hope of happiness, as well as of increased power of 
usefulness. He had, during the preceding year, be« 
come acquainted with Mrs. Appreece, towards whom 
esteem gradually ripened into affection. 

When their marriage was decided on, he thus 
wrote to my mother : — 

** My dear Mother, 
" You possibly may have heard reports of my in- 
tended marriage. Till within the last few days it 
was mere report. It is, I trust, now a settled ar- 
rangement* I am the happiest of men, in the hope 
of a union with a woman equally distinguished for 
virtues, talents, and accomplishments. * &gt; * 

You, I am sure, will sympathise in my happiness. I 
believe I should* never have married, but for this 
charnttog woman, whose views and whose tastes 
coindde with my own, and who is eminently 
qualified to promMe my best efforts and objects 19 

life. • • . * • ♦ 

• • • • * * 

** I Am yotir afiectibnate sob, 

•« H. Davt.** 

With the same strong feeling he announced his 
marriage to me about the same time : — 

" My dear JoKfN, 

«* Many thanks for your last letter, I have been 

very miserable. The lady whom I love best of any 

human beings has been very ill. She is now welU 

and I am happy. Mrs. Appreece has consented to 

VOL. I. F F 



434 M£M0Itl8 OF THE LIFE OF 

marry me ; and when the event takes place I shall 

not envy kings, princes^ or potentates. 

• ♦•«•• 

«« I am, my dear brother, 

" Ever most affectionately yours, 

" H. Davy/' 

The next letter tvas written on the eve of his 
marriage, and just after he had received the honour 
of knighthood : -^ 

" Friday, April lOth, 1812* 

** My dear BlioTttER, 

** You will have excused me for not writing to you 
on subjects of science. I have been absorbed by ar- 
rangements on which the happiness of my future 
life depends. Before you receive this these arrange- 
ments will, I trust, be settled ; and, in a few weeks, I 
6hall be able to return to my habits of study and of 
scientific research. 

" I am going to be married to-morrow ) and I 
have a fair prospect of happiness, with the most 
amiable and intellectual woman I have ever known. 

" The Prince Regent, unsolicited by me, or by 
any of my intimate friends, was pleased to confer the 
honour of knighthood on me at the last levee. This 
distinction has not often been bestowed on scientific 
men ; but I am proud of it, as the greatest of human 
genius's bore it ; and it is at least a proof that the 
court has not overlooked my hUmble efforts in the 
cause of science. 

" I have discovered pure phosphorous acid (a solid 
body, very volatile) ; and a pure hydrophosphorous 
acidi containing two proportions of water and foui' 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 435 

of phosphorous acid, and decomposing by heat into 
phosphoric acid and a new gas containing four pro- 
portions of hydrogen and one of phosphorus. I have 
made some curious discoveries (economical ones) on 
sulphuric acid. I shall give them in my next. 

" Pray address to me, Sir H. Davy, Beechwood 
Park, near Market St. Aiban's. 

" Believe me, my dear John, I shall always take the 
warmest interest in your welfare and happiness, and will 
do every thing to promote your views. I shall have 
some ideas on your studies soon to communicate. 

" I am, my dear brother, 

" Most affectionately yours, 

" H. Davy.'' 

This letter was followed soon after by the next, 
making me further acquainted with his plans, and 
giving assurance of his continued attachment to sci- 
ence, in reply, if I recollect right, to a hope to that 
effect which I expressed in congratulating him on his 
marriage : — - 

** My dear John, 

&lt;« I told you I should come to the Highlands this 
summer, and I shall carry the plan into execution. 
I wrote to you to say this a few days ago. I ad* 
dtessed my letter Edinburgh j so that, possibly, it miay 
be lying at the post-office. 

" I trust I shall have the happiness of seeing you 
before the end of July ; and that I shall see you well, 
improved, active, and happy. 

" I communicated to you, in a former letter, my 
plans, as far as they were matured. I have neither 
given up the Institution, nor am I going to France j 

F F 2 



436 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and, wherever I am, I shall continue to labour in the 
cause of science, with a zeal not diminished by in- 
crease of happiness and (with respect to the world) 
increased independence. 

" I have just finished the first part of my * Che- 
mistry,' to my own satisfaction, and I am going to 
publish my * Agricultural Lectures,* for which I am 
to get 1000 guineas for the copyright, and 50 gui- 
neas for each edition, which seems a fair price. As 
I shall see you so soon, I shall not write about any 
matters of science. 

" I shall bring you what I think you will consider 
an agreeable present,— copies of all your papers, 
twenty-five of each, as presents for your friends.* 

" I was appointed Professor (honorary) to the In- 
stitution, at the last meeting. I do not pledge my- 
self to give lectures. Brande gives twelve. 

• • * * • • 

If I lecture, it will be on some new series of discove- 
ries, should it be my fortune to make them ; and I 
give up the routine of lecturing, merely that I may 
have more time to pursue original inquiries, and for- 
ward more the great objects of science. This has 
been for some time my intention, and it has been 
hastened by my marriage. 

" I shall have great pleasure in making you ac- 
quainted with Lady D. She is a noble creature (if I 
may be permitted so to speak of a wife), and everj' 
day adds to my contentment by the powers of her un- 
derstanding, and her amiable and delightful tones of 
feeling. God bless you. 

*« Believe me to be 

•• Your affectionate brother, 

" H. Davy." 

* These were piapen published in the Philosophical Transacdonsk 






SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 437 

The first work alluded to, in the letter just giveiit 
as his Chemistry J was his " Elements of Chemical.Phi- 
losophy," published very soon after his marriage.. It 
was in many respects peculiar. In the dedication to 
Lady Davy, he expresses the warm feelings of his 
heart, and gives assurance of his lasting devotion to 
science. It was written during the period of his 
courtship, which, as he states in the same dedication, 
was the happiest period of his life. It was com- 
menced in the autumn, just before he set out for 
Ireland, was rapidly continued amidst the various dis- 
tractions of his many different occupations and pur- 
suits, and was printed as it was written. Almost as 
soon as he began writing, he began printing ; no fair 
copy was made : the MS. was transferred sometimes 
the same day and hour from his pen to the press ; 
and yet I am not aware that the work bears any ma- 
terial, marks of hastiness, or of carelessness, or of any 
want of systematic arrangement, or of due keepii^ 
and proportion of its parts. Though rapidly com- 
posed, it was not, in fact, hurried ; he was very care- 
ful in verifying results, taking nothing for granted ; 
and thus, in a letter written to me in the winter of 
1812, speaking of this undertaking, in which he was 
then engaged, he says: — " The time not employed 
in lecturing or public occupation I devote to my 
book. I shall soon send you what I have done. I. 
examine all results as I go on.*' His great facility 
arose very much from his mind having been prepared 
for it by his preyious studies and researches, some- 
what in the same manner as the hand of a great artist 
in design is for a fresco painting. Indeed, as a 
whole, it is rather to be considered an epitome of his 
own labours, and discoveries, and peculiar views, than 
what the title of Elements would indicate. 

F F 3 



438 M£MOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

The most original and interesting parts of the 
work are, first, those relating to chemical attraction, 
and to electricity, heat and light, in connection with 
chemistry, viewed as chemical agents ; secondly, 
those relating to simple substances and their primary 
combinations, especially chlorine, and the bases of 
the fixed alkalies, alkaline earths, and earths proper ; 
and, thirdly, his views and speculations relative to the 
obscure parts of chemistry, its analogies, and pros- 
pects of extension. Under the head of chemical 
attraction he brought forward his views of the com- 
bination of bodies in definite proportions, and opposed 
the speculations of BerthoUet of a contrary kind, 
relative to the influence of mass, and various other 
accidental circumstances, in altering the results of 
affinities. I must refer the chemical reader for de- 
tails to the work itself. It will be sufficient here to 
observe that my brother, in refuting BerthoUet, made 
a constant appeal to facts, and showed that the state- 
ments which that distinguished chemist advanced in 
favour of his peculiar doctrines were, either alto- 
gether or in part, incorrect; and that they owed 
their apparent force of argument to the omission of 
some particulars or circumstances which, if taken into 
account, admitted of the explanation of the results, 
on the idea that chemical attraction is entirely cer- 
tain and definite in operation, neither admitting of 
gradation either as regards its force or its effects. 

My brother's own views respecting the doctrine of 
combination in definite proportions were a modifica- 
tion of those of Mr. Dalton, — the same, in regard to 
fact,' stripped of all speculation; in brief, merely a 
generalisation, or an induction from facts. 

It is a fact that all compounds, the composition of 
which is accurately known, always consist of (as 



SIR HUMPHRT DAVY. 439 

nearly as possible) the same quantities of ingredients ; 
the exactness of nature appearing every day more 
perfect as the processes of chemistry improve in ac- 
curacy. 

It is a subordinate fact, that a substance, whether 
an acid or an alkali, an earth or a metal, an inflam- 
mable or supporter of combustion, when it is capable 
of effecting decompositions in consequence of superior 
attraction, always expels the same proportional quan- 
tity of matter endowed with an attraction inferior in 
force to its own ; so that if it is known how much it 
will expel from one, it is known how much it will expel 
from all. Thus a metal always precipitates the same 
quantity of another metal, from all its solutions, that 
it is capable of decomposing ; and thus, too, in the 
mutual decomposition of neutro-saline solutions, in 
ordinary circumstances, there is no change of the 
neutral point 

It is also a fact, that when one substance forms 
with another more than one compound, the propor- 
tion with which it combines in the second,* or third, 
or fourth compound, is always a multiple or divisor 
of that in the first ; and, subordinate to this, when 
gases combine they unite either volume with volume, 
or with half a volume, or with two or three. It is a 
generalisation of these facts which constitutes the 
important doctrine of bodies uniting in definite pro- 
portions. It was thus as much as possible based on 
experience, independent of opinion or speculation, 
that my brother first adopted it, and always held it. 
Mr. Dalton, on the contrary, advanced it originally 
in a different form, to which assent might be given 
or withheld at pleasure ; he advanced it as an abstract 
speculation, more in the manner of an ancient than 

FF 4 



440 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

of a modern philosopher, founding it, as he announced 
it, on certain axioms connected with the invisible 
particles of matter. 

This hypothetical form was very unfavourable to 
the reception of the doctrine in its early stage. Dr. 
Thompson, in his " History of Chemistry*,** states 
that my brother first opposed it, though he after- 
wards became one of its most strenuous supporters. 
Well acquainted with his opinion on the subject, it 
appears to me that Dr. Thompson has mistaken it, 
not distinguishing between his sentiments on the 
hypothetical parts of Mr. Dalton's views, the atomic 
doctrines relating to the weight, size, and number of 
atoms, and those which he held derived from the re- 
sults of analysis, the facts and true foundations of 
the theory. The former are still, as they were at first, 
and as they ever must be, open to objection, being 
beyond the scrutiny of the senses and the test of ex- 
periment. 

If my brother at any time indulged in pleasantry 
in conversation, on the atoms of Mr. Dalton, as men- 
tioned by Dr. Thompson, it must have been in a 
guileless manner, and with no expectation that it 
would have been re-echoed, and still less recorded in 
the page of the history of chemistry. He always re- 
spected and esteemed Mr. Dalton, and never thought 
lightly of any of his views. The estimation in which 
my brother held him, as the author of the theory 
which has rescued chemistry from endless confusion 
and vagueness, is best seen in his writings. I shall 
quote that part of his discourse to the Royal Society 
which he delivered on the award of the first royal 
medal to Mr. Dalton, in which he does the amplest 

• Vol. ii. p.l9S. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 441 

justice to that gentleman as an original discoverer, 
nowise detracting from his merits, as others have de- 
tracted from his own • : — 

" They (the council of the Society) have awarded 
the first prize to Mr. John Dalton of Manchester, 
Fellow of this Society, for the development of the 
chemical theory of definite proportions, usually called 
the Atomic Theory, and for his various other labours 
and discoveries in physical and chemical science. 

" What Mr. Dalton's merits are, I shall briefly 
endeavour to state to you, though it is impossible to 
do justice to them in the time necessarily allotted to 
this address. 

" The brilliant and important discoveries of Black, 
Cavendish, Priestley, and Scheele had added to che* 
mistry a great variety of substances before unknown, 
many of which had forms never before witnessed in 
the material world ; and the new and accurate logic 
of Lavoisier had assigned to many of them their just 
places in the arrangements of chemistry, and had 
established the characters of most of them as simple 
or compound bodies. Novel uses of these substances 
were ascertained, new combinations of them made, 
and their applications to the purposes of common 
life constantly extended by various distinguished 
chemists in the close of the last century ; but, with 

* Mr. Babbage, in his Essay on the Decline of Science in England^ 
has called the award of this medal to Mr. Dalton an insult. By what 
process of reasoning or feeling he has arrived at this inference it is dif- 
ficult to imagine. The mles established for the awarding of the medal 
having been broken through by the Council of the Society in Mr. Dal- 
ton's favour (the matter of offence to Mr'. Babbage^ according to his 
own stating), is surely an enhancement of honour. It is melancholy to 
witness the effects of party animosity, and more especially amongst men 
of science ; how it blinds the judgment, destroys generous sentiment^ 
and produces all kinds of misrepresentation ! 



44S MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

respect to the weight or quantity in which the difier- 
ent elementary substances entered into union to form 
compounds, there were scarcely any distinct or accu- 
rate data. Persons, whose names had high authority, 
differed considerably in their statements of results ; 
and statical chemistry, as it was taught in 1799, 
was obscure, vague, and indefinite, not meriting even 
the name of a science. 

" To Mr. Dalton belongs the distinction of first 
unequivocally calling the attention of philosophers to 
this important subject Finding that, in certain com- 
pounds of gaseous bodies, the same elements always 
combined in the same proportion ; and that when 
there was more than one combination, the quantity 
of the elements always had a constant relation, such 
as one to two, or one to three, or to four ; — be ex- 
plained this fact oh the Newtonian doctrine of indi- 
visible atoms, and contended that the relative weight 
of one atom to that of any other atom being known, 
its proportions or weight, in all its combinations, 
might be ascertained ; thus making the statics of che- 
mistry depend upon simple questions in subtraction or 
multiplication, and enabling the student to deduce an 
immense number of facts from a few well-authenti- 
cated, accurate, experimental results. 

&lt;^ I have said that to Mr. Dalton belongs the dis- 
tinction of first 'unequivocally calling the attention of 
philosophers to this subject ; but I should be guilty 
of historical injustice, if I did not state that various 
opinions and loose notions on the same mode of 
viewing the combinations of bodies had existed be- 
fore. And not to go back to the time of the Greek 
schools, to the Homoids of Anaxagoras, or to the 
Atoms of Epicurus, nor to those Newtonian philoso- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 443 

phers who supported the permanency of atoms, and 
their uniform combinations; such as Keil, Friend, 
Hartley, and Marzucchi ; — there may be found in the 
works of Dr. Bryan Higgins, Mr. William Higgins, 
and Professor Richter, hints or conclusions bearing 
decidedly on this doctrine. Dr. Bryan Higgins, in 
his experiments and observations relating to acetous 
acid, fixable air, dense inflammable air, fire, and light, 
published in I786, contends that elastic fluids unite 
with each other in limited proportions only ; and that 
this depends upon the combination of their particles 
or atoms with the matter of fire, which surrounds 
them as an atmosphere, and makes them repulsive of 
each other ; and he distinguishes between simple 
elastic fluids, as composed of particles of the same kind, 
and compound elastic fluids, consisting of two or 
more particles, combined in what he calls molecules, 
definite in quantity themselves, and surrounded by de^ 
finite proportions of heat. Dr. Bryan Higgins's no- 
tions have, I believe, never been referred to by any of 
the writers on the atomic theory. Mr. William Hig-* 
gins's claims have, on the contrary, often been brought 
forward : yet^ when it is recollected that this gentle- 
man was a pupil and relation of Dr. Bryan Higgins, 
and that his work called the * Comparative View' was 
published some years after the treatises I have just 
quoted, and that his notions are almost identical (with 
the addition of this circumstance, that he mentions 
certain elastic fluids, such as the compounds of 
azote, consisting of one, two, three, four, and five 
particles of oxygen to one of azote), it is difiicult not 
to allow the merits of prior conception, as well as of 
very ingenious illustration, to the elder writer. 

" Neither of the Higgins attempted to express 



414 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

the quantities in which bodies combine by numbers ; 
but Richter has a claim of this kind. In his * New 
Foundations of Chemistry/ published in 1795, he 
has shown that, when neutro-saline bodies, in general, 
undergo mutual decomposition, there is no excess of 
alkali, earth, or acid ; and he concludes that these 
bodies are invariable in their relation to quantity, and 
that they may be expressed by numbers. 

" Mr. Dalton, as far as can be ascertained, was not 
acquainted with any of these publications, at least he 
never refers to them ; and whoever will consider the 
ingenious and independent turn of his mind, and the 
original tone prevailing in all his views and specula- 
tions, will hardly accuse him of wilful plagiarism. 
But let the merit of discovery be bestowed wherever 
it is due, and Mr. Dalton will be still pre-eminent in 
the history of the theory of definite proportions. He 
first laid down, clearly and numerically, the doctrine 
of multiples, and endeavoured to express by simple 
numbers the weights of the bodies believed to be 
elementary. His first views, from their boldness and 
and peculiarity, met with but little attention ; but 
they were discussed and supported by Drs. Thomson 
and Wollaston ; and the table of chemical equivalents 
of this last gentleman separates the practical part of 
the science from the atomic or hypothetical part, and 
is worthy of th*e profound views and philosophical 
acumen and accuracy of the celebrated author, 

«* Gay Lussac, Berzelius, Dr. Prout, and other che- 
mists have added to the evidence in favour of the es- 
sential part of Mr. Dalton*s doctrine ; and, for the 
last ten years, it has acquired almost every month 
additional weight and solidity. 4 

" Gentlemen, I hope you will clearly understand 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 445 

that I am speaking of the fundamental principle^ 
and not of the details as they are found in Mr. Dal- 
ton's system of chemical philosophy. In many of 
these, the opinion of the composition of bodies is 
erroneous, and the numbers gained from first and 
rude experiments incorrect ; and they are given with 
much more precision in later authors on chemistry. 
It is in the nature of physical science that its me- 
thods offer only approximations to truth ; and the 
first and most glorious inventors are often left behind 
by very inferior minds in the minutiae of manipula- 
tion ; and their errors enable others to discover truth. 

" Mr. Dalton's permanent reputation will rest upon 
his having discovered a simple principle universally 
applicable to the facts of chemistry — in fixing the 
proportions in which bodies combine, and thus laying 
the foundation for future labours respecting the sub- 
lime and transcendental parts of the science of corpus- 
cular motion. His merits in this respect resemble 
those of Kepler in astronomy. The causes of che- 
mical change are as yet unknown, and the laws by 
which they are governed ; but, in their connection 
with electrical and magnetical phenomena, there is a 
gleam of light pointing to a new dawn in science ; 
and may we not hope, that, in another century, che- 
mistry having, as it were, passed under the dominion 
of the mathematical sciences, may iind some happy 
genius, similar in intellectual powers to the highest 
and immortal ornament of this Society, capable of 
unfolding its wonderful and mysterious laws ? *' 

On the other parts of the elements of chemical 
philosophy which I have alluded to as most inter- 
esting and important, little commentary is here re- 
quired, the subjects of them having been more or less 



446 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

especially considered in the papers which he had pre- 
viously given to the Royal Society. The section on 
electricity is a clear abstract of all that was most 
valuable then known in that science^ embracing 
electro-chemistry, and enriched with many Dew re- 
suits tending to establish its laws. 

I shall extract his account of the great voltaic 
battery, the effects of which were so wonderful and 
instructive, as well as brilliant ; and I may preface it 
with the remark, that marvellous as the effects of 
this gigantic apparatus were, he had in part antici- 
pated them as far back as 1800 or 1801. In a note- 
book kept at that time he observes : — 

« By means of 1000 plates, you may perhaps 
make the spark pass through air, &amp;c. 

" The most powerful combination that exists, in 
which number of alternations is combined with extent 
of surface, is that constructed by the subscriptions 
of a few zealous cultivators and patrons of science in 
the laboratory of the Royal Institution. It consists 
of 200 instruments connected together in regular 
order, each composed of ten double plates arranged 
in cells' of porcelain, and containing in each plate 
thirty-two square inches ; so that the whole number 
of double plates is 2000, and the whole surface 
128,000 square inches. This battery, when the cells 
were filled with sixty parts of water, mixed with one 
part of nitric acid and one part of sulphuric acid, af* 
forded a series of brilliant and impressive effects. 
When pieces of charcoal about an inch long and 
one-sixth of an inch in diameter were brought neaf 
each other (within the thirtieth or fortieth part of an 
inch), a bright spark was produced, and more than 
half the volume of the charcoal became ignited to 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 447 

whiteness ; and by withdrawing the points from each 
other a constant discharge took place through the 
heated air, in a space equal at least to four inches, 
producing a most brilliant arch of light» broad and 
conical in form in the middle. When any sub* 
stance was introduced into this arch it instantly 
became ignited ; platina melted as readily in it as 
wax in the flame of a common candle ; quartz, the 
sapphire, magnesia lime, all entered into fusion; 
fragments of diamond, and points of charcoal and 
plumbago rapidly disappeared, and seemed to eva- 
porate in it, even when the connection was made in a 
receiver exhausted by the air-pump ; but there was no 
evidence of their having previously undergone fusion. 
" When the communication between the points po* 
sitively and negatively electrified was made in air, 
rarefied in the receiver of the air-pump, the distance 
at which the discharge took place increased as the 
exhaustion was made ; and when the atmosphere in 
the vessel supported only one*fourth of an inch c«f 
mercury in the barometrical gauge, the sparks passed 
through a space of nearly half an inch ; and, by with- 
drawing the points from each other, the discharge 
was made through six or seven inches, producing a 
most beautiful corruscation of purple light; the 
charcoal became intensely ignited, and some platina 
wire attached to it fused with brilliant scintillations, 
and fell in large globules upon the plate of the pump. 
All the phenomena of chemical decomposition were 
produced with intense rapidity by this combination. 
When the points of charcoal were brought near each 
other in non-conducting fluids, such as oils, ether, 
and oxymuriatic compounds, brilliant sparks occurred, 
and elastic matter was rapidly generated j and such 



448 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

was the intensity of the electricity, that sparks were 
produced even in good imperfect conductors, such 
as the nitric and sulphuric acid. 

" When the two conductors from the ends of the 
combination were connected with a Leyden battery, 
one with the internal, the other with the external 
coating, the battery instantly became charged ; and 
on removing the wires, and making the proper con- 
nections, either a shock or a spark could be per- 
ceived ; and the least possible time of contact was 
sufficient to renew the charge to its full intensity." 

His views of the effects of radiant matter, or that 
species of matter which passes from the sun to the 
earth, were in some respects peculiar. He does not 
agree with MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard that the 
chemical operation of the sun's rays depends merely 
on their heating power j nor does he admit, with Dr. 
WoUaston and M. Berard, that the invisible rays next 
the violet in the Solar spectrum are specifically chemi- 
cal rays ; he is rather of opinion that the whole ray 
is active, and the different parts of it when separated 
by the prism ; and that its effects depend upon a pe- 
culiar influence, which, to be better understood, 
requires to be further studied. As the subject is of 
much interest and importance, as well as obscure, I 
shall transcribe his remarks on it : — 

" As yet it has not been clearly demonstrated what 
is the peculiar chemical energy of the least refrangible 
rays. In acting upon the compounds of silver, they 
produce new combinations, or a disengagement of 
hydrogen by decomposing water, and they have no 
action whatever on these substances when dry. I 
found that chlorine was much more rapidly absorbed 
by water, and muriatic acid much more rapidly 
formed when the Vessels were exposed in the violet 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 449 

extremity of the spectrum than when they were ex- 
posed to the other rays ; but that the combinations of 
chlorine and hydrogen in dry vessels took place more 
rapidly in the red rays. M. Berard has stated, how- 
ever, an opposite result; but new experiments are 
wanting to decide the question. I made my experi- 
ment by concentrating the red rays and the rays 
beyond the red rays by a lens, and throwing them 
upon a small sphere of copper within the vessel, so 
that the heat communicated to the metal njay have 
interfered with the result ; and in M. Berard's trials 
the vessels were moist, so that his result may have 
been connected with a deposition of water. 

" I found that the black oxide of mercury exposed 
in the red rays, concentrated by a lens, gradually 
became red, in which case oxygen was probably ab- 
sorbed; but the same oxide exposed in the violet 
rays, concentrated in the same manner, was not 
changed ; and these rays produced no effect upon 
dry red oxide of mercury, but upon moistened red 
oxide occasioned the same change as a current of 
hydrogen gas. 

" Dr. WoUaston has shown, that a change of colour 
is produced upon gum guaicum by the rays beyond 
the violet rays, connected with an absorption of oxy- 
gen, and hence he has proposed to call the invisible 
rays in this part of the spectrum chemical rays, and 
M. Berard has adopted this distinction ; but, suppos- 
ing that hydrogen is disengaged in the experiment 
on guaicum, it may in its nascent state absorb oxygen, 
and the change of colour may depend, not upon the 
absorption of oxygen, but the separation of hydrogen 
and its new combination. 

** The facts that I have stated above sufficiently 

VOL. I. G G 



450 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

demonstrate that the rays producing heat are capable 
of assisting certain species of chemical action ; and 
there seems no more reason for asserting that the rays 
producing no heat are the rays most efficacious in 
occasioning chemical changes, than for asserting, with 
MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard, that light produces 
all its chemical effects by producing heat.*' * 

That part of his work which related to the simple 
or elementary substances, or those bodies which had 
not been decompounded, had a very original character, 
in consequence of the results of his own inquiries. 
Without hesitation, he places the bases of the fixed 
alkalies, and alkaline earths, and earths proper, in the 
class of metals, and took away oxymuriatic acid gas 
from the class of acids, to which it had been so long 
spellbound by the power of hypothesis and &lt;rf a 
hypothetical nomenclature; and, with a name in- 
dependent of speculation, placed it by the side of 
oxygen, as most analogous to it in its general pro- 
perties. This classification was by some critics ob- 
jected to at the moment, and considered premature ; 
but, as they were moved rather by timidity and fear 
of change than the force of truth, their opposition 
was little regarded, and is now forgotten ; and the 
arrangement then, for the first time, proposed in an 
elementary work, is now, I believe, almost universally 
received. 

The change of doctrine concerning oxymuriatic 
acid gas, and the new views connected with chlorine, 
naturally made my brother anxious to see effected a 
reform in nomenclature. It has been already men- 
tioned how he proposed to designate the combinations 

* MS. for 2d edition. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 451 

of this substance. He brought forward the same 
proposition in his Elements, and used the names which 
he had suggested; but, finding that they were not ap- 
proved of by men of science, it was his intention to 
have omitted them in the second edition of his work. 

The subject of chemical nomenclature generally, 
he was of opinion^ required a thorough revision. He 
considered the principle crif the French nomenclature, 
as it is commonly called, ill adapted to a progressive 
science ; liable to great abuse ; an obstacle in the way 
of discovery, and fitted only for the state of che- 
mistry when it was invented. At a very early period 
he entertained these sentiments respecting it, even 
before he left Penzance ; and in a note-book kept 
at Bristol they are strongly expressed. As the topic 
is still unsettled, and deserving of very mature const- 
deration and careful discussion, I shall give some 
of his views respecting it ; hoping that they may have 
an influence in the formation of a nomenclature, 
which, as is so much to be desired, shall be perma- 
nent, amidst the changes and advancement of science; 
and if not a help to the memory, at least not a clog 
to the understanding, and an impediment to truth. 

He seems to consider it essential, first, that names 
should have no reference to inaccurate generalis- 
a:tion ; secondly, that they should be derived, not from 
a group of properties, but from some simple and ob* 
vious property ; and, thirdly, that they should be as 
simple and brief as possible. 

I shall select two or three of his remarks, which 
illustrate his views of nomenclature, whilst they show 
how little his own mind was biassed by the theory 
connected with the French nomenclature : — 

" If the names of substances are to be formed from 

G G ^ 



452 MEMOIRS OP THE LIFE OF 

their properties, they should be from properties^ which 
are readily perceived, and which have no relation to 
a number of facts. 

*Vlt is wrong to assume facts which can only be 
known by experience. Water ought, on the prince 
pies of the French nomenclature, to be called oxide 
oif hydrogen. Let us translate the combinations of 
hydrogen—water generator, oxide of water generator. 
Here, it is evident, we oblige the reader to form an 
idea of a compound substance, that he may be able 
to understand the species of a simple one ; and we 
likewise oblige him to form a number of imperfect 
ideas with regard to the mode of this formation. So 
too, of oxygen : a person, unacquainted with this 
substance, must go through a succession of chemicai 
facts to comprehend the name. But it is not by the 
acidifying power of oxygen gas that the experiment* 
alist detects its existence; it is by its non-absorb* 
ability by water, diminution with nitrous gas, and 
capability of supporting flame. The name, instead 
of conveying to the mind of a student a clear and 
determinate idea, as Lavoisier supposes, calls up 
trains of obscure ideas, connected with an imagined 
process of acidification. 

'&lt; Besides, after any one has been accustomed to 
apply the term generator of acid properties fbr 
some time to a particular substance, he is induced to 
believe its existence in all bodies possessed of these 
properties ; is thoroughly convinced of its existence 
in the muriatic, fluoric, and boracic adds j and is 
astonished that sulphuretted hydrogen can exist » 
an acid without if 

The next extract is from a Lecture of 1811, on 
oxygen : — 



SIB HUMPHRY DAVY. 453 

^&lt; The whole series of discussions that have been 
brought forward prove that oxygen is a body very 
prone to enter into combination, and with great 
energy, and usually produces light, and always heat. 
The compounds that it forms differ according to the 
nature of the body with which it combines* Thus, 
with hydrogen, it forms a neutral compound ; with 
sulphur, a strong acid ; with pots^sium^ a corroding 
alkali; with iron, an insoluble tasteless body; and 
with certain metals it forms earths. Oxygen, there- 
fore, or the producer of acid, is a very improper name 
for it; for there are many powerful acids that do not 
contain it, and it exists in the most energetic alkalies* 
It might be called with more propriety hydrogen, the 
piroducer of water, or alkaligen, or geogen ; but all 
these names are equally exceptionable. At present it 
is better to continue the name of oxygen, and to wait 
for a more mature period of the science for the reform 
of the nomenclature.** 

Other extracts might be given in exemplification 
of his views of nomenclature ; but these may suflSce, 
as all his observations were rather pointed at the im- 
perfections of the French system, than directed to 
the formation of a new one. Indeed, both then, 
smd always after, he considered chemistry too un- 
settled to receive a nomenclature founded on strict 
principles of science. He considered a loose no- 
menclature, fettered as little as possible by theoiy^ 
best fitted for its youthful and growing state. Such 
names as chlorine, euchlorine, phosgene, nowise de- 
s^^riptive of the chemical nature of the substances to 
which they were applied, he preferred to others 
whicli theqry would have suggested ; and on the 
same principle, I believe, he preferred popql^u; 

G G 3 



454 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

names and old names, when, if at all, ^gnificant 
only, of some obvious quality, or expressive of the 
names of discoverers ; such as corrosive sublimate, 
calomel, litharge, minium, aurum mnsivum, the 
fuming liquor of Libavius, Kermes mineral, &amp;c. — to 
appellations derived from theory, and respecting the 
propriety of which, till the science were perfect, 
there might be unceasing difference of opinion. Per- 
haps a nomenclature of a mixed kind, such as is 
commonly employed in mineralogy and geology, and 
indeed in all the other sciences, is most suitable to 
chemistry, would serve best the purpose of science 
and its interests, and would be most commodious for 
common use. 

Not only the discoveries which had been made 
since the promulgation of the French nomenclature 
rendered my brother averse to its principle, but also 
the anticipations which he indulged in of further and 
greater advances. Some idea of this may be formed 
from the concluding part of his work, to which I 
must refer the curious reader. He laid it down as 
an axiom, that ** we know nothing of the true ele- 
ments belonging to nature :'* he considered nsitare 
as inexhaustible, affording matter for almost endless 
research, limited only by the powers of the mind. 
Full of hope of continued triumphs of experimental 
science and the discovery of some simple law appli- 
cable to the complicated phenomena of chemistry, it 
is not surprising that he was averse to a nomenclature, 
the tendency of which is opposed to change, as if, when 
first established, it had been taken for granted that 
the science was perfect. 

I have occasionally referred to a MS. which my 
brother had prepared for a second edition of the Ele- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 4f55 

ments of Chemical Philosophy, consisting of some 
additions and some alterations, and a few corrections, 
but none of them of very material importance. 

It seems singular that though the work was in 
much estimation when it appeared, and continues to 
be valued and quoted as of high authority by the 
best writers on chemistry, and though it was trans- 
lated into most European languages, yet a second 
edition of it has not been required. 

As he stated in the first edition, and repeated in 
the copy prepared for the second, it was his intention 
to have continued and completed the work. He also 
stated in the latter his intention of shortly giving to 
the public a distinct work, containing a detailed ac- 
count of his labours in analytical chemistry carried 
on during the preceding twelve years. Whether he 
commenced a second volume of his Elements, or the 
work last mentioned, I am not sure ; I believe not ; 
I can find no traces of either of them. The intention, 
however, he never entirely relinquished ; and had his 
life been prolonged, and his health permitted, I have 
no doubt he would have carried it into effect. Whilst 
he preserved his health, that is, from 1812 to 1826, 
other objects of original research and more pressing 
interest almost constantly had his attention ; and 
afterwards, when his health failed him, he found him- 
self unequal to an undertaking which, whether the 
continuation of the Elements of Chemical Philosophy, 
or an account of his anal3rtical labours, would have 
required a devotion of time, and attention, and exer- 
tion incompatible with a valetudinary state. 

To return to the narrative. Almost immediately 
after his marriage he resumed his habits of re- 

G G 4 



456 MEMOIRS OF 7HC LIFE OF 

search ; and, indeed, followed, as far as change of 
circumstances from his single state would admit of, 
the same tenor of life as before. 

In the June following he gave proof of his unin- 
terrupted zeal in the cause of science, by a paper 
which he then communicated to the Royal Society, 
entitled, ** On some Combinations of Phosphorus and 
Sulphur, and on some other Subjects of Chemical In- 
quiry.*' And even when he set out on a tour of 
pleasure with Lady Davy, in the next month, for the 
Highlands of Scotland, he was provided with a porf&gt; 
able chemical apparatus, that he might not be without 
the means of following his favourite pursuit of expe- 
rimenting, in connection with fishing and shooting, 
which he almost as much delighted in. It was his 
intention to have returned to London in December ; 
but a letter which he received from Paris, from M. 
Ampere, mentioning a discovery which interested him 
much, viz. a new detonating compound of chlorine 
and azote, I believe, induced him to retrace his steps 
earlier. Be this as it may, in the latter end of Octo- 
ber he was again in his laboratory, and intent on the 
preparation of the new compound, of which he had 
only received from his correspondent the brief inti- 
'mation that it was a fluid, exploding at the heat of 
the hand, and that it had deprived M. Dulong, the 
author of the discovery, of an eye and a finger. 

The following is a paragraph from a letter which 
I received from him at this time, relative to this and 
other inquiries : — 

" There is nothing doing here. I have commenced 
some experiments. 1 am attempting to decompose 
hydro-fiuoric acid by chlorine, and to combine azote 



SIR HUMPHmr DAVY, 457 

from prussic acid - with chldrikie; I heated this day 
diamond powder in chlorineii but there -was no 
action/' . » .r ... 

In another paragraph of the «ame letter, :llluding 
to some experiments which we had made together' in 
Edinburgh, in the laboratory of Dr. ' Hope, in the 
presence of that gentleman and some other menof* 
science, on the union of muriatic acid gas and. am- 
monia, in connection with the controversy then goir^ 
on respecting the nature of oxymuriatic acid gas, be- 
tween Dr. Murray and myself, he sa3rs :— 

*' I think you should answer Murray's assertion by 
a short note, with testimonials. The controversy is 
closed/' He concluded this letter with the cheering 
exhortation, &lt;&lt; Go on, and prosper in all good things, 
— in usefulness, happiness, and knowledge." 

I shall insert the next letter I had from him entire, 
announcing his success in making the fulminating 
compound he was in quest of^ and the wound he had 
received in his eye from its explosion, written, as 
Lady Davy added in a postscript, to save me fixmi 
anxiety : — 

" L&lt;mdon, Nov. 16. 1812. 

" My dear John, 

^&lt; I have discovered the mode of making the com- 
bination of azote and chlorine. It is by exposing 
chlorine to a very weak solution of ammonia, or to a 
solution of nitrate of ammonia, or of oxalate of am- 
monia. 

^&lt; It must be used with very great caution. It is 
not safe to experiment upon a globule larger than&gt; a 
pin's head. I have been severely wounded by a piece 



458 M£MOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

scarcely bigger. My sight, however, I am informed, 
will not be injured. It is now very weak. I cannot 
see to say more than that I am, 

" Your very affectionate brother, 

« H. Davy." 

This accident happened at Tunbridge, in Mr. 
Children's laboratory ; and, as a caution to others, on 
his return to town, which was immediate, he com- 
municated the particulars to the Royal Society, in a 
letter to Sir Joseph Banks. The injury of his eye 
was severe, and for a considerable time prevented 
him from prosecuting his labours of research. Thus, 
in a letter dated Wimpole, January lyth, 1813, where 
he was spending a few days at Lord Hardwicke's, he 
writes me : — 

" I have had another severe attack of inflammation 
in the eye, and was obliged to have the conjunctiva 
and cornea punctured. I suspect the cause was some 
little imperceptible fragment. I am just recovering, 
and hope I shall see as well soon as with the other 
eye. 

" My operations and employments have been, in a 
great measure, suspended ; yet I have found oppor- 
tunities of working a little upon fluorine. I believe 
I have nearly got to the bottom of this difficult 
question, and have expelled fluorine by chlorine, 
though I have not yet seen it, but I have ascer- 
tained that it expels oxygen from most compounds. 

«* I will give you my processes in my next letter." 

The complete recovery of his eye was protracted 
nearly till April, as appears from the following letter 
descriptive of his plans and pursuits : — 



1 

I 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 459 

"April*. 181 S. 

" My dear John, 

" It is long since I have heard from you. 1 am 
going into Cornwall, Pray address a letter to me, at 
Penzance. We are going, a pretty large party, into the 
west, and shall fish in our way. I wish you were 
amongst us. I shalM)e absent from town about 
three weeks. We have come to the resolution of 
going to Scotland in the summer. Lady D. and. I 
shall have the pleasure of seeing you there. We 
think of going by Edinburgh, and of passing a good 
deal of our time in Sutherland ; so that I have come 
to the resolution of seeing my mother and sisters in 
the spring. The Cornish journey will be too mpid 
a one, and too interrupted for Lady D. to be of the 
party. Blake, Warburton, Pepys, and the SoUys 
form a party who will combine mineralogy and 
fishing. 

«* I am now quite recovered, and Jane is very well, 
and we have both enjoyed the last month in London. 
I have been hard at work. I have expelled fluorine 
from fluate of lead, fluate of silver, and fluate of 
soda, by chlorine. It is a new acidifier, forming three 
powerful acids ; hydro-fluoric, silicated fluoric, and 
fluo-boric. It has the most intense energies of com- 
bination of any known body, instantly combining with 
all metals, and decomposing glass. Like the fabled 
waters of the Styx, it cannot be preserved, not even 
in the ape's hoof. We have now a triad of supporters 
of combustion. 

&lt;&lt; I have just finished printing my agricultural 
lectures. I shall send you a copy as soon as I can. 

" Thenard has proved Lampadius's liquor to be 
what Clement and Desormes thought, — carbon and 



460 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

sulphur,. fifteen to eighty-five j nearly two proportions 
of sulphur to one of carbon. 

" Remember me to Mr. Plajrfair when you see 
him, and tp the Mackenzie family, and to the Fer- 
gussons. We hope to see Mr. Flayfair in May. 
We shall see you, if ajl things do Well, in July. 

" I am, my dear John, 

" Your most affectionate brother, 

« H. D. 

" Remember me to Mr. Moore. I want to try 
some experiments before I write to him on his sub- 
ject. Tell him this. Till within the last fortnight my 
eye has interfered with writing." 

In the autumn of this year, finding it possible, on 
account of his scientific name, to obtain permission 
from the French government to visit the Continent, 
he formed a plan of an extensive tour with scientific 
objects in view, as well as the gratification of an ardent 
curiosity, and love of travel, which he soon carried 
into effect. The following is part of a letter which 
he wrote to his mother when on his way to embark 
at Plymouth : — 

'' Andover^ Oct 14. 1813. 

" My dear Mother, 
« We are just going to the Continent upon a 
journey of scientific inquiry, which I hope will be 
pleasant to us, and useful to the world. We go 
rapidly through France to Italy, and fi-om that to 
Sicily ; and we shall return ihroagb Germmy* We 
have every assurance from the governments of the 
countries through which we pass, that we shall not 



srit tiuwpHily DAVT. 461 

be molested, but assisted. We shall sfcay probably 

a year or two. 

* # * • &gt;# «i 

*• As soon as I have settled a plan of correspond- 
ence abroad, I wUl write to you, and shall hear of you 
from John as often as possible. As I am permitted 
to pass through an enemy's country, there must be 
no politics in any letters to me ; and you had better 
not write except through the channel I shall here- 
after point out. 



•• 



&lt;' When I return I shall peaceftiUy fix my abode 
for life in my own country. Pray take care of Betsy^ 
When the wind is cold she should not think of going 
out. Tell Grace not to be afraid, though I am going 
through France. My love to Kitty, and to Grace 
and Betsy. I am, my dear mother, wishing you all 
health and happiness, 

" Your very affectionate son, 

** H. Davy.'' 

The following day I had a letter from him from 
Plymouth ; from whence, with Lady Davy, he crossed 
the channel in a cartel to Morlaix. He was ac- 
companied by Mr. Faraday (who has since so ho- 
nourably distinguished himself in original research) 
as his assistant in experiments and in writing*, and 
provided with a commodious portable apparatus for 
instituting such inquiries as he had in contempla- 
tion. 

*Mt, F«ad8/4 Letter to Dr. Paris. '' Life/' &amp;e. p« 363.; 



462 MEMOIRS OP THE LIFE OF 



CHAPTER IX. 

NOTICES OV HIB FIRST CONTINENTAL TOUR. RESEARCHES ON IODINE AT 

PARIS. — SKETCHES OF DISTINGUISHED FRENCHMEN^ GUTTON DE MOR- 
REAU^ VAUQUEUNy OUVIER^ DE HUMBOLDT, OAT LU88AC, BRRTHOLLET, 

LA PLACE. VERSES ON '* FONTAINEBLEAU," ON '^MONT BLANC," '* THE 

BANKS OF THE RHONE," '^ THE MEDITERRANEAN PINE," '' THE OANI- 
OOU," " VAUCLUSB," *' CARRARA." — SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHES ON HIS 
JOURNEY. VERSES ADDRESSED TO CANOVA ; ON '' THE SYBIL's TEM- 
PLE ;" ON ''a DISTANT VIEW OF P^fiSTUM." MENTION OP VOLTA. 

EXTRACT FROM HIS JOURNAL. DESCRIPTION OF PART OF THE 

TYROL. OCCUPATIONS AT ROME IN THE WINTER OF 1814. EX- 
PERIMENTS ON THE COIiOURS OF THE ANCIENTS. *— A MIS-STATEMENT 
RESPECTING HIM POINTED OUT RELATIVE TO A CONTROVERSY WITH 

M. GAY LUSSAC. — EXTRACTS FROM HIS JOURNAL. ANECDOTE OF HIM 

FURNISHED BY SIB WALTER SCOTT. — HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND. 

I SHALL commence this chapter with a quotation 
from his **^ Consolations in Travel/' descriptive, in a 
few words, of the period of his life that has passed 
in review, and of that on which we are about to 
enter : — 

«* Accident opened to me, in early youth, a philo- 
sophical career, which I pursued with success. In 
manhood fortune smiled upon me, and made me in- 
dependent. I then really became a philosopher, and 
pursued my travels with the object of instructing 
myself, and of benefiting mankind. I have seen 
most parts of Europe, and have conversed, I believe, 
with all the illustrious men of science belonging to 
them. My life has not been unlike that of the an- 
cient Greek sages. I have added some little to the 
quantity of human knowledge, and I have endear- 
voured to add something to the quantity of human 
happiness." 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 468 

The following letter to my mother was written a 
day or two after his arrival in France : — 

''Morlaix, Oct 22. 1813. 

" My dear Mother, 

" We are safe at Morlaix. A sea voyage is always 
disagreeable, and I have not yet recovered the effects 
of mine. We were a day and two nights at sea. We 
found here our passport from Paris, and we shall set 
out to-morrow. The weather is rather unfavourable ; 
but it has rained so much, that I hope the clouds are 
exhausted. 

«* Pray write to my brother, and say to him that 
we are quite safe. As soon as I arrive in Paris, I 
shall endeavour to find a mode of hearing as oflen as 
I can of your health and safety. 

" I am, my dear mother, 

" With best love to my sisters and aunt, 

" Your very affectionate son, 

« H. Davy.*' 

In Paris he spent about two months, varioudy 
occupied between the calls of society and of science. 
During this short period he had the pleasure of 
being instrumental in adding another substance to 
the supporters of combustion, viz. iodine; the 
nature of which he first determined in a satisfac- 
tory manner. It had been discovered two years be- 
fore by M. Curtois, a manufacturer of saltpetre, but 
kept a secret. About the time of my brother's ar- 
rival, MM. Clement and Desormes were engaged in 
examining it, at the desire of M. Curtois, and had 
ascertained many of its properties; and M. Gay 
Lussac had also entered on the inquiry. The most 



464 MEMOIRS OF THC LIFE OF 

striking quality of iodine^ — that by which it was dis- 
covered, and to which it owes its name*,— -is its be- 
coming a violet-coloured gas when heated. Another 
quality which fixed the attention of those who ex- 
amined it was, its forming an acid having the cha- 
racter of the muriatic acid. M. Clement, indeed, 
believed that it was really the muriatic acid, and M. 
Gay Lussac entertained the same opinion. At the 
request of the former, my brother, who had received 
a small portion of the problematical substance from 
his friend, M. Ampere, submitted it to experiment, and 
soon satisfied himself that the acid just alluded to is 
distinct from the muriatic, and a new and peculiar 
one; and that iodine itself is a simple substance, 
analogous in its chemical relations to chlorine. 

These views of the nature of iodine and its acid 
were communicated to M. Gay Lussac ; and it was 
not till after this distinguished chemist was well ac- 
quainted with them, and after further research, that 
he gave up his first idea.t 

The analogy between iodine and chlorine imparted 
to the former substance a peculiar interest, and very 
much facilitated the investigation respecting it. The 
contrast was great between the previous slowness 
and the subsequent rapidity of progress of the in- 
quiry. In a few days my brother had ascertained 
some of its most remarkable properties and combin- 
ations, and had collected the materials of his first 
communication to the Royal Society on the subject ; 
and in less than twelve months, chiefly in consequence 
of the elaborate and masterly researches of M. Gay 



* From uifSrKf violaceoaB. 

t Vide Joorn*! of Sdenoe and the Arts^ vol. L p. SS4. 



sift aUlG^HRY DAYir* 46$ 



Lussac, the chemical faistoiy of iodiiie was more lull 
and complete than that of most other substanoes 
longest known. 

The manner in which my brother conducted the 
investigation (and I must confine myself to his la* 
bours) was very much after the plan of that which 
he followed in the examination of chlorine. I shall, 
notice only briefly his principal experiments and re* 
suits, referring the chemical reader to his paper 
published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1814, 
for the minute details. After having satisfied himself 
that the questionable acid was not the muriatic, and 
that iodine is capable of uniting immediately with 
silver, and that the compound is the same as that 
which its acid precipitates from nitrate of silver, his 
next object was to endeavour to decompose iodine. 
For this purpose he successively tried the action of 
potassium, of chlorine, and of oxygen on it, with 
the hopes of separating either an inflammable base, 
or oxygen, or chlorine, did it contain any of these 
principles ; but in vain. With the two first substances 
it entered immediately into union, — with potassium 
forming a white saline body, and with chlorine a 
yellow solid, volatile by heat, soluble in water, and 
possessed of acid properties ; whilst with oxygen it 
remained unaltered. 

MM. Clement and Desormes had ascertained that 
iodine is capable of entering into combination with 
most of the metals, and they stated that metallic 
oxides might be obtained from their solutions. This 
my brother verified ; but he found that no oxide 
could be obtained unless water was present, or a sub- 
stance known to contain oxygen. 

His attention was next directed to the action of 

VOL. I. H H f 



4&lt;66 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

phosphorus on iodine, and the peculiar acid gas, since 
called the bydriodic, which is produced when these 
two substances are heated together. He found that 
the quantity of this acid is, in some measure, propor- 
tional to the moisture present ; that, when water is 
as carefully as possible excluded, very little acid re- 
sults from the union of the phosphorus and iodine ; 
that, when sufficient moisture is present, the produc- 
tion of it is abundant ; that it may be procured also 
by heating the phosphuret of iodine with a little 
water, and may be procured directly by heating 
iodine in hydrogen gas ; and further, that when the 
acid gas is decomposed by potassium or any other 
metal, as happens with muriatic acid gas, hydrogen 
is liberated equal to half the volume of the gas, and 
a compound of the metal used and iodine is formed, 
precisely the same as that which is obtained by uniting 
iodine with the metal directly. 

MM. Clement and Desormes had ascertained that 
iodine is rapidly soluble in a solution of potash. My 
brother, reasoning on the circumstances of the ex- 
periment, — that the iodine dissolves without the dis- 
engagement of oxygen gas, and that the compound 
obtained by evaporating and heating the solution is 
the same as when iodine and potassium are united 
directly, — inferred that iodine must be capable of 
forming a class of salts analogous to those which 
were formerly called the hyperoxymuriates, in which 
oxygen exists in a very unusual proportion. This 
inference was fully confirmed by experiment. He 
obtained with facility the salt he was in quest of, and 
not only in the instance of potassa, but also in that 
of soda and barytes ; and in each instance it possessed 
properties analogous to the corresponding hyperoxy- 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 467 

muriate or (as these salts are now called) chlorate. 
He concluded his experimental inquiry by subjecting 
iodine in the gaseous state to the action of sparks 
irom ignited points of charcoal kindled by the vol* 
taic battery. The result was negative ; the iodine 
remained unaltered. And not having been able to 
decompose it, he was compelled to consider it a simple 
body. And it being a non-conductor of electricity, 
and possessed of negative electrical energy with re- 
spect to metals, inflammable and alkaline substances, 
and analogous, in its general chemical qualities, to 
oxygen and chlorine, he did not hesitate to suggest 
its being placed in the same class, especially as it 
agrees with chlorine and fluorine in forming acids with 
hydrogen, and agrees with oxygen in forming an 
acid with chlorine. He adds, that he hopes the 
new facts connected with iodine ** will do something 
towards settling the opinion of chemists respecting 
the nature of acidity, which seems to depend upon 
peculiar combinations of matter, and not on any 
peculiar elementary principle ; ** and no doubt they 
had this effect, and were also very efiicient in support 
of the new doctrine concerning chlorine, which from 
this time came into general adoption. 

Of his sojourn in Paris I have no particulars 
of any interest to communicate ; he at this period 
kept no notes of what he observed, — nor, indeed, 
was it ever his practice in great cities. During his 
last illness he amused himself with writing or dic- 
tating notices of the distinguished men of science 
whom he had known. I may here introduce a few 
instances of them, — - a few of the most conspicuous 
and distinguished with whom he had the honour of 
becoming acquainted during his visit to the French 

H H 2 



46&amp; MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

capital, — most of whom, Uke himself, have paid the 
debt of nature. Slight as these sketches are, they 
may amuse the reader, as well as show my brother's 
perception of character, and the manner in which he 
estimated men ; and, moreover, I trust they may be 
influential in repelling certain ungenerous, and, I 
believe, unjust charges which have been brought 
against him, of holding in contempt the talent of 
others, and overrating his own. 

" Guy ton de Morveau was very old when I made 
his acquaintance, between seventy and eighty, and 
very, feeble. Though he had been a violent republi- 
can, he was Bonaparte's director of the mint, and a 
baron of the empire. His manners were mild and 
conciliatory ; and it is a proof of the energy of his 
mind, that, having promised his vote to a person as 
corresponding member of the Institute, he kept his 
promise, and my election wanted only his voice to be 
unanimous. Having never, when in France, inquired 
into the intrigues connected with elections, or inte- 
rested myself about them, I should not have known 
this, had he not himself told me so when I dined 
afterwards at his house.*' 



" Fauqicelin was in the decline of life when I first 
saw him in 1813, — a man who gave me the idea of the 
French chemists of another age ; belonging rather to 
the pharmaceutical laboratory than to the philosophi- 
cal one : yet he lived in the Jardin du Roi. Nothing 
could be more singular than his manners, his life, 
and his manage. Two old maiden ladies, the Ma- 
demoiselles de Fourcroy, sisters of the professor of 
that name, kept his house. I remember the first 
time that I entered it, I was ushered into a sort of 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 469 

bed-chamber, which likewise served as a drawing- 
room. One of these ladies was in bed, but employed 
in preparations for the kitchen; and was actually 
paring truffles. Vauquelin wished some immediately 
to be dressed for my breakfast, and I had some diffi- 
culty to prevent it. Nothing could be more extraor- 
dinary than the simplicity of his conversation ; — he 
had not the slightest tact, and, even in the presence 
of young ladies, talked of subjects which, since the 
paradisaical times, never have been the objects of 
common conversation.** 



" Cuvier had even in his address and manner the 
character of a superior man ; — much general power 
and eloquence in conversation, and a great variety of 
information on scientific as well as popular subjects. 
I should say of him, that he is the most distinguished 
man of talents I have known ; but I doubt if he is 
entitled to the appellation of a man of genius." 



" De Humboldt was one of the most agreeable 
men I have ever known ; social, modest, full of intel- 
ligence, with facilities of every kind : almost toojluent 
in conversation. His travels display his spirit of 
enterprise. His works are monuments of the variety 
of his knowledge and resources.*' 



" Gay Ltissac was quick, lively, ingenious, and 
profound, with great activity of mind, and great faci- 
lity of manipulation. I should place him at the head 
of the living chemists of France.*' 



• " Berthollet was a most amiable man ; when the 
friend of Napoleon even, always good, conciliatory, 

HH S 



470 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

and modest, frank and candid. He had no airs, and 
many graces. In every way below La Place in intel- 
lectual powers, he appeared superior to him in moral 
qualities. BerthoUet had no appearance of a man of 
genius ; but one could not look on La Place's phy- 
siognomy without being convinced that he was a very 
extraordinary man." 



•* La Place^ when a minister of Napoleon, was 
rather formal and grand in manner, with an air of 
protection rather than of courtesy. He spoke like a 
man not merely feeling his own power, but wishing 
thiat others should be immediately conscious of it. 
I have heard, from good authority, that he was ex- 
ceedingly proud of his orders, and that he had the 
star of the order of Re-union affixed to his dressing- 
gown. This was in 1813. In 1820, when I saw 
him again, his master had fallen. His manners were 
altered. He was become mild and gentlemanlike ; 
and had a softer tone of voice, and more grace in the 
forms of salutation. I remember the first day I saw 
him, which was, I believe, in November, 1813. On 
my speaking to him of the atomic theory in chemis- 
try, and expressing my belief that the science would 
ultimately be referred to mathematical laws, similar 
to those which he had so profoundly and successfully 
established with respect to the mechanical properties 
of matter, he treated my idea in a tone bordering on 
contempt, as if angry that any results in chemistry 
could, even in their future possibilities, be compared 
with his own labours. When I dined with him, in 
1820, he discussed the same opinion with acumen 
and candour, and allowed all the merit of John Dal- 
ton. It is true our positions had changed. He was 



SIR HUJy^FHEY DAVY. 47 ^ 

now amongst the plcj aristocracy of France, and was 
no Jqpger the intellectual head of the new aristo- 
cracy; and, from a young and humble aspirant to 
chemical glory, I was about to be called, by the 
voice of my colleagues, to a chair which had been 
honoured by the last days of Newton." 

These few sketches may suffice at present. He 
gave many more, both of foreigners and his country- 
men, some of which will be introduced in the sequel; 
and all of which were written in the saipe temperate 
tone, and (as it appears to me) discriminative man- 
ner ; biassed, if at all, by a feeling of kindness, never 
by one of envy or animosity. 

In prosecution of his travels,' he left Paris, on the 
23d of December, on his way to the south of France, 
and to Italy. Though he made no notes of his jour- 
ney which remain, he has left some memorials of it, 
partly in verse, expressive of his feelings&gt; and de- 
scriptive of certain spots and things which impressed 
him strongly, and partly in the results of scientific 
research. Some specimens of the former require a 
place here. The first I shall insert was written on 
the evening of the day he commenced his journey^ 
and at Fontainebleau, after having witnessed the 
varied magnificence of forest and palace, under pe- 
culiar circumstances of time and season, — when an 
icy foliage covered the trees, and only a few months 
before the abdication of Napoleon, at this very place, 
of whose downfall, " never to rise," he had a presen- 
timent, the expression of which, as he afterward* 
told me, he considered a prophecy. 



H H 4 



472 MEMOIRS OF TH£ LIFE OF 



*' FONTAINEBLEAU. 

" Dec. 29. 1813. 
'' The mists diipene, — and where a sullen doud 
Hung on the mountain's verge the sun hursts forth 
In afi its majesty of purple light. 
It is a winter's evenings and the year 
Is fast departing; yet the hues of heaven 
Are bright as in the summer's warmest month. 
It is the season of the sleep of things ; 
But nature in her sleep is lovely still ! 
The trees display no green^ no forms of life ; 
And yet a magic foliage clothes them rounds — • 
The purest crystals of pellucid ice^ 
All purple in the sunset. Midst the wood 
Fantastically rise the towering cliffs^ 
That in another season had been white. 
But now^ contrasted with the brilliant ice^ 
Shine in atrial tints of purest blue ! 
The varied outline has a thousand charms ; 
Here^ rises high a venerable wood. 
Where oaks are seen with massy ice girt round. 
And birches pendant with their glittering arms. 
And graceful beeches clinging to the soil ; 
There, massy forms exist of rocks alone, — . 
Rising as if the work of human art. 
The pride of some gr6at Paladin of old. 
In awful ruins. Nearer I behold 
The palace of a race of mighty kings ; 
But now another tenants. On these waUs, 
Where erst the silver lily spread her leaves — 
The graceful symbol of a brilliant court — 
The golden eagle shines, the bird of prey, — 
Emblem of rapine and of lawless power : 
Such is the fitful change of human things : 
An empire rises, like a cloud in heaven. 
Red in the morning sun, spreading its tints 
Of golden hue along the feverish sky. 
And filling the horizon ; — soon its tints 
Are darken'd, and it brings the thunder storm, — 
Lightning and hail, and desolation comes ; 
But in destroying it dissolves, and falls 
Never to rise ! " — 

The next, I believe, was written at Lyons, on first 
viewing the distant Mont Blanc in the twilight from 
the banks of the Rhone : — 



« 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 4f{% 



'' MONT BLANC. 

'^ Jan. 5. 1814. 
With joy I view thee^ bathed in purple light. 
Whilst all around is dark ; with joy I see 
Thee rising from thy sea of pitchy clouds 
Into the middle heaven,— 
As if a temple to the Eternal, raised 
By all the earth, framed of the piUar'd rock. 
And canopied with everlasting snow 1 •— - 
That lovely river, rolling at my feet 
Its bright green waves, and winding 'midst the rocks. 
Brown in their winter's foliage, gain'd firom thee 
Its flood of waters ; through a devious course. 
Though it has laved the fertile plains, and waah'd 
The cities' walls, and mingled with the stieams 
Of lowland origin, yet still preserves 
Its native character of mountain strength, — 
Its colour, and its motion. Such are those 
Amongst the generations of mankind 
To whom the stream of thought descends from heaven. 
With all the force of reason and the power 
Of sacred genius. Through the world they pass 
Still uncorrupted, and on what they take 
From social life bestow a character 
Of dignity. Greater they become. 
But never lose their native purity.' 



&gt;» 



« 



BANKS OF THE RHONE., 



"Jan. 6. 



^' The air is soft as in the month of June 
In northern climes ; a balmy zephyr blows. 
And nothing speaks of winter's harshest month 
Save that the trees are leafless, and yon Alps, — 
Not, as in summer, merely capp'd by snow. 
But deep incased, and girt around by ice. 
Upon the mountains crowded round thy banks, 
O lovely Rhone ! no ice, no snows are seen. 
But lively tints and varied, such as might 
Bespeak autumnal days. The oak, that long 
Has kept its faded foliage, clothes thy base, — 
The bracken to their sides a richer tint 
Of chesnut gives, and the green herbage clothes 
Their summits bathed in dew ; save where the difi* 
Uplifts its marble crest of hue diverse 
And varied outline, grey with moss, or blue. 
In native colouring ; or, changed by time. 
And rusted by the active elements. 
More lovely in decay, — assuming forms 



474 MEMOIBS OF THi; LIFE OF 

Of broken columnsj, (ind of mouldering towers. 
Thy nearest banks^ O lovely river ! glow 
With the bright willow^ round whose crimson bucl9 
The water-fly expands her glittering wings. 
Thy upper slopes the graceful myrtle skirts. 
Green as in spring time ; and the primrose lurks 
Beneath its odorous leaves. The fruitful vine 
Darkens thy champaign, and on many a hill 
The villages in sober colours rise, 
The castles' towering walls ; and all the tints 
Which human art bestows upon the scene 
Are chaste as if the master.hand of Claude 
Had traced upon the canvass their design. 
From the deep gullies bosom'd in thy rocks 
Descends in foam and thunder many a stream 
Without a name ; but one is far renown'd — 
Sorgue, — beside whose crystal waters sang 
The bard of Provence." 

The next lines are on a tree he much delighted 
in, the stone pine, of Italy, which, wherever it 
occurs, is beautiful, whether solitary amidst the 
vine-clad hills bordering the Campagna of Rome, 
or collected in groves and forests, as in the Pineta of 
Ravenna : — 

'' THE MEDITERRANEAN PINE, 

^' Montpelier, Jan. 14. 1814* 



t€ 



Thy hues are green as is the vernal tint 
Of those fair meads where Isis rolls along 
Her silver floods. And not amongst the snows. 
Nor on the hoary mountain's rugged crest^ 
Is thy abode ; but on the gentle hill. 
Amongst the rocks^ and by the river's side. 
Rises thy graceful and majestic form. 
Companion of the olive and the vine. 
And that Hesperian tree whose golden fruit 
Demands the zephyr warmed by southern suns. 
In winter thou art verdant as in spring, — 
Unchangeable in beauty ; and thy reign 
Extends from Calpe to the Bosphorus.* 
Beneath thy shade the northern African 
Seeks shelter from the sunshine ; and the Greek« 
In Tempe's vale, forms from thy slender leaves 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. *75 

A shepherd's coronal. Fanes of the god 

Of Egypt and of Greece majestic rise 

Amidst thy shades ; and to the memory^ 

Oh lovely tree ! thy resting-places hring 

All that is glorious in our history, — 

The schools where Socrates and Plato taught^ — 

The rocks where Grecian freedom made her standi — 

The Roman virtue, — the Athenian art, — 

The hills from which descended to mankind 

The light of faith, — from which the shepherd gave 

The oracles of heaven, and Israel saw. 

The sacrificial offering of her guilt. 

The hlood of the atonement, shed in vain. 

When Salem fell, and her offending race 

Were scatter'd as the dust upon the hlast." 

The next verses are dated " Oriental Pyrenees, 
January 26th." The record they contain of his strong 
patriotic feeling and love of civil liberty was called 
forth by seeing a British fleet in the Mediterranean, 
and in anticipating the overthrow of a military des- 
potism, which, had it prevailed, might, as he ap- 
prehended, have rendered Europe again almost 
barbarous : — 

« THE CANIGOU.* 

" MOBNIKO. 

'^ In the eastern sky the stars their lustre lose 
In more difiused light, as if their orbs 
Had melted into air, and form'd the day : 
Above, the heavens receive a brighter tint 
Of purest azure ; and beneath they glow 
With lovely hues&gt; which every instant change^ — 
Now purple, and now orange ; and a gleam 
Of golden light pours on the tranquil main« 
I cast my eyes upon thy western coast. 
And lo ! thy giant form, O Canigou ! 
As if a new creation of the day. 
Framed of the morning doud for ever fix'd. 
And gilded by the expiring morning star. 
So bright thy glittering snows appear, they seem 
To form another dawn : thy base is dark. 
Rising through mists that mingle with the wave ! 

* The Canigou is one of the highest mountains of the Pyrenees, 
nearly 9000 feet above the level of the sea (1 491 toises). 



476 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

*' NOON. 

^^ The orb of light its flood of lustre pours 
From the mid-heavens upon the tranquil sea 
Without a tide^ whose silver mirror spreads 
Reflecting forms of mountain-majesty 
Along the Iberian coast ; and, more remote. 
In gentle agitation feels the breeze. 
That to its deep and lovely azure gives 
The life of motion. All the morning mists 
Have vanished, and the mid-day sunbeams sleep 
Upon thy snows, or glitter where the streams 
They feed with crystal waters pour in foam 
Amidst thy dark deep glens and shaggy woods, 
Where the bright pine and darker cork trees blend : 
Their varied foliage forms a boundary 
&gt; Where winter seems to mingle with the spring. 

And, lower still, the olive tree appears — • 
The work of culture, and the leafless vine, 
And the green meadows, where the torrents sleep. 
Or move obedient to the wants of man. 
Nature in savage wildness, — mountain strengths- 
Breathes in one picture with the forms of art. 
And all that stamp the social character. 
A city's walls majestically rise. 
The guardian of a realm whose sounds of war 
Alarm the ear. Along the sandy shore 
The path the Carthaginian trod appears. 
When from the Pyrennees his veterans pour*d. 
To try the strength of Rome, and shed profuse 
Her patriot blood at Canne. On the wave 
Triumphant ride the fleets of Ocean's Queen. 
My heart throbs quicker, and a healthful glow 
Fills aU my bosom. Albion, thee I hail ! — 
Mother of heroes ! mighty in thy strength ! 
Deliverer ! from thee the fire proceeds 
Withering the tyrant ; not a fire alone 
Of war destructive, but a living light 
Of honour, glory, and security, — 
A light of science, hberty, and peace \ 

^^ EVENING. 



i( 



A moment past the sky was bright and dear. 

But now a mist obscures the ambient air ; 

The mist becomes a cloud, which gathers round 

Thy brow ; at first so white, — so bright, — so pure,- 

The snows seem dark beneath its crisped fringe ; 

And now it spreads a thicker canopy. 

And rapidly descends, and fills thy glens. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY* 477 

And covers all thy rocks. Its tints are changed, 
Its fleecy whiteness gone ; the sunbeams fade. 
And lose their glory in its sullen gloom. 
Portentous of the storm ! And now the rain 
Descends in floods — the angry lightning gleams, 
The thunder roars ; the tempest howls along 
Thy echoing clifls ; and the vexed main 
Mingles her white foam with the troubled floods, 
The torrents from the mountains rolling down !" 



The following lines on Vaucluse were written, I 
believe, in the beginning of February, when he visited 
the remarkable, beautiful, and impressive scene of 
which they are descriptive, — a scene in all its features 
suited to his tastes and feelings, especially the river, 
which, of the purest water of the hue of the beryl, 
bursts from the base of a mountain precipice, and 
flows over a rocky bed covered with dark green con- 
fervae, abounding in beautiful trout, which, probably 
owing to the perpetual coolness of the stream, are 
always in season * : — 

" VAUCLUSE. 

^' I see the rifted rocks above thy stream, 
O Sorgue ! and, as I trace its wave along, 
A scene of pastora] beauty glads my eye. 
Well suited to a pastoral poet's song ; — 
Meads that have gain'd their freshness from thy wave. 
And fed upon thy dews, whiten'd with flocks ; 
And gentle slopes, where, 'midst the broken rocks, 
The vines spread forth their branches to the sun 
As if they gain'd their nurture from his beams ; 
And, in the richer soil, the olive turns 
Its glittering foliage from the northern blast. 
Along the hills the stately villa peers, 
Embosom'd deep in cypress. On the plain 
The cottages are spread, and many a row 
Of trees in formal trim the pruner's art 
Declare ; fitted to bear the richest fruits 
Pomona culls, or for the verdant food 

• On the 10th of April, 1830, I found the temperature of the Sorgue 
at its source 54^. 



478 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

Of that fair inBect, daughter of the spring, ' 

Whose industry supplies the Cimbrian looms. 
I walk along thy banks ; — • and now thy streams 
Descend with more of power and sparkling foam. 
Amidst their basins awful cliffs impend 
Above thy channel^ raised in many a form 
Fantastictd of spires and Gothic towers 
And airy battlements ! As if in sporty 
Nature in humouring her plastic strength 
In playful mood had formed them. In a dark 
And gloomy chasm, crowded with broken rocks, 
I see the white spray rise in many a cloud ;.-— 
And now I hear the thundering cataract. 
It is thy lofty spring, O wondrous stream ! 
Bom of the mountain snows ! Thy course is made 
In darkness and in silence, deeply hid 
Within thy channel of the marble rock ; 
And all at once thou risest into light, 
Pure as if fresh from heaven ! Embosom'd long 
In earth, thou hast no earthly taint. Thy hues 
Seem stolen from the blue etherial sky. 
So bright, so pure their lustre ; and thy foam 
Is whiter than the snow that gave thee birth. 
In thunder thou descendest from thy rocks ! 
Nor dost thou sleep beneath them ; murmuring still 
Along thy pebbly bed, gamish'd with plants 
Growing amidst thy waters, mingling hues 
Of emerald with thy transparent blue. 
I wonder not the poet loved thy wave, — 
Thy cavern'd rocks, ~- thy giant precipice ; 
For such a scene was suited well to break 
The tyrant-spell of love and to controul. 
A passion that was often hopeless love 
' CaU'd for impressions strong and vigorous. 
Such as this scene sublime might well bestow 
Upon a mind alive to sympathy 
With all created forms that bear the stamp 
Of loveliness, or majesty, or grace." 

The lines on Carrara, with which I shall conclude 
these poetical notices are without date ; but I believe 
they were written at this time, when he visited this 
remarkable spot on his way to Florence. 

*' CARRARA. 

*' Thine is no dark and dreary mine. 
No hidden qtuurry damp and cold ; 
Thy crests in orient sunbeams shine, 
. The morning tints thy rocks in gold — 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 479 

'&lt; Thy roeks sul^me, that stifl retnaiii 
As erst from chaos they arose^ 
Untouch'd hy time, without its stain^ 
Pure as their canopy of snows ! 

*' Forms worthy of that magic art 

Which from the graver's potent hand 
Can hid the hues of heauty start. 

And all expression's power command ; — 



'^ Forms worthy of that master skill. 

Which to the poet's dream has given 
The nohle front, the potent will, 
Fix'd in the majesty of heaven ; 

'^ And that a softer charm has shed 
On Cytherea's radiant head. 
And kindled in her Grecian face 
The immortality of grace! 

*^ Scenes hlended with the memory 
Of mighty works can well supply 
The food of thought, — and scenes like these 
Have other natural powers to please. 

*^ Around transparent rivers flow. 

Whose tints are hright as summer sky ; 
Upon their banks the olives grow ; 
The greener pine, aspiring high, 

^^ Towers 'midst the cliffs ; the chestnut loves 
Thy slopes, where vines their tendrils rear ; 
In the deep glen the myrtle groves 
Embalm the cool and quiet air." 

I shall now briefly revert to his scientific pursuits — 
the main object of his travels. From Paris he went 
directly into Auvergne, and examined the extinct 
volcanoes of that mountainous region. From thence 
he proceeded to Montpelier, where he resumed his 
inquiries on the combinations of iodine ; the results of 
which he communicated to the Royal Society in a 
paper, which was published in the *' Philosophical 
Transactions " of the same year. He crossed into 
Italy by the way of Nice and the Col de Tende ; and 
passing through Turin, proceeded to Genoa, where 



480 m£;moirs of the life of 

he remained a few days, and took the opportunity of 
making some experiments on the electricity of the 
torpedo, but without good results, probably partly 
owing to the languid state of the fish from the cold- 
ness of the season ; and also of extending his inquiries 
on iodine. Both here and at Montpelier, in quest 
of this substance, he examined many of the marine 
productions of the shores of the Mediterranean, in 
most of which he found traces of it. But in the 
sponges, the ashes of which he tried, and bay-salt, he 
could not detect it.* Since, however, it has been 
detected by Dr. Fyfe in the former (Edinburgh 
Philosophical Journal, No. 2.) j and, I may remark, 
that the results of my experiments on sponge are in 
accordance with Dr. Fyfe's ; and thus confirming its 
important medicinal character and efficacy. 



* If the sponges^ the ashes of which my brother experimented upon^ 
had been previous to incineration subjected to repeated washing^ it may 
account for his not detecting iodine in them. I have found by this 
process that the greater part of the iodine is abstracted. 

I may here add, that I have also detected slight traces of iodine in 
the coarse sea-salt of the Mediterranean^ and which therefore I have 
been in the habit of recommending for use in families^ and more 
especially in nurseries^ in preference to refined salt. It is not improbable 
that the apparent increase of scrofulous and consumptive disease in recent 
times may be connected with the over refinement of salt^ — that is^ car. 
ried so far as to deprive it of its iodine principle, which seems intended 
by provident nature as a corrective of certain injurious causes productive 
of a terrible class of diseases. This view is confirmed by the remark- 
able difference in point of health in the population of certain mountainous 
districts of South America, as described by M. Boussingault in the 54th 
volume of the Annales de Chimie et de Physique, in some of which 
salt containing a very small proportion of iodine is used, and in others 
salt entirely destitute of iodine. As regards the public healtii and the 
happiness of families, the subject is of the first importance, and deserv- 
ing of minute and thorough inquiry. Tubercular phthisis now carries 
off about &amp;ne fourth of all who die in our own country, — the most in^ 
teresting, and loved, and valued ; hardly sparing a family. Its cure, 
when formed, is almost hopeless ; its prevention is full of hope^ and to 
this all our care should be given. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 481 

' From Florence, where he arrived from Genoa in 
the middle of March, he wrote me the following let- 
ter, particularly referring to his scientific labours : — 

" Florence, March 18.1814. 

** My dear John, 

" 1 have written to you several letters, but I have 
not yet received one in return. This I attribute to 
the difficulty of communication, not to any want of 
kindness on your part. 

" Write to me, alia posta, Roma. There is now 
full communication between Italy and England : and 
tell me all the news, — what you have done, what you 
have published, and what you are doing. 

** I find the French chemists inclined to your views 
of animal heat, as a chemical process, and Le Gallois 
strongly opposed to Brodie ; yet after much discus- 
sion, I have retained my opinion. 

" We have made a most interesting voyage in 
eventful times. I have passed from the Pyrenees to 
the Alps, and have twice crossed the Appenines, and 
have visited all the most remarkable extinct volcanoes 
in the south of France. All the basalt that I have 
seen between the Alps and Pyrenees is decidedly of 
igneous origin. I have observed some facts on this 
subject that are, I believe, new, — a regular transition 
of lava into basalt, depending upon the different pe- 
riods of refrigeration ; and true prismatic basalt in the 
interior of an ancient lava. 

" I have worked a good deal on iodine, and a little 
on the torpedo. Iodine had been in embryo for two 
years. I came to Paris ; Clement requested me to 
examine it, and he believed that it was a compound, 
affording muriatic acid. I worked upon it for some 

VOL. I. II 



482 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

time, and determined that it was a new body, and 
that it afforded a peculiar acid by combining with 
hydrogen, and this I mentioned to Gay Lussac, Am- 
pere, and other chemists. The first immediately 
" took the word of the Lord out of the mouth of his 
servant,'* and treated this subject as he had treated 
potassium and boron. The paper which I sent to the 
Royal Society on iodine I wrote with Clement's ap- 
probation, and a note published in the *' Journal de 
Physique " will vindicate my priority. I have just 
got ready for the Royal Society a second paper on 
this fourth supporter of combustion. 

*&lt; The old theory is nearly abandoned in France. 
Berthollet, with much candour, has decided in favour 
of chlorine. I know no chemist but Thenard who 
upholds it at Paris, and he upholds it feebly, and by 
this time, probably, has renounced it. 

" I doubt if the organ of the torpedo is analogous 
to the pile of volta. I have not been able to gain 
any chemical effects by the shock sent through water ; 
but I tried on small and not very active animals. 
I shall resume the inquiry at Naples, where I 
hope to be about the middle of May. In my journey 
I met with no difficulties of any kind, and received 
every attention from the scientific men of Paris, and 
the most liberal permission to go where I pleased 
from the government. 

" I lived very much with Berthollet, Cuvier, Chap'^ 
tal, Vauquelin&gt; Humboldt, Morveau, Clement, Chev- 
reul, and Gay Lussac. They were all kind and 
attentive to me ; and, except for Gay Lussac's last 
turn of publishing without acknowledgment what he 
had first learnt from me, I should have had nothing 
to complain of ; but who can controul self-love ? It 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 483 

• 

ought not to interfere with truth and justice; but I, 
will not moralise nor complain. Iodine is as useful 
an ally to me as I could have found at home. Tell 
me what you are doing, and what you wish ; and 
command me as your affectionate friend, and love me 
as your very affectionate brother, 

" H. Davy.*' 

At Florence, where he remained rather more than 
a fortnight, he entered upon a new subject of in- 
quiiy, and which he prosecuted afterwards at Rome. 
This was the nature of the diamond, and of the dif- 
ferent varieties of carbon. Many conjectures had 
been previously formed relative to the striking differ- 
ence of qualities between the hardest and the most 
beautiful of the gems, and the more common forms 
of carbon as it appears in charcoal, anthracite, and 
plumbago. By one inquirer, the peculiarities of the 
diamond were supposed to be owing to the presence 
of a little hydrogen ; by another, to the presence of 
a little oxygen ; by a third, to perfect purity and 
crystallisation, and the presence of a little water of 
crystallisation ; and, lastly, my brother conjectured 
that it might contain some new principle, some new 
supporter of combustion, to which it might owe its 
characteristic qualities. This idea he formed before 
he quitted England ; and suggested it in a paper on 
the fluoric combinations, which was written before he 
was acquainted with the existence of iodine. He 
remarks : " As the investigation of nature proceeds 
it is not improbable that other and more subtle bodies 
belonging to this class (the supporters of combus- 
tion) will be discovered j and perhaps some of the 
characteristic differences of those substances, which 

1 1 2 



48 1&lt; MEMOIRS Of THE LIF£ OF 

apparently give the same products by analysis, may 
depend upon this circumstance." 

" The conjecture (he continues) appears worth 
hazarding, whether the carbonaceous matter in the 
diamond may not be united to an extremely light 
and subtle principle of this kind, which has hitherto 
escaped detection, but which may be expelled, or 
newly combined, during its combustion in oxygen." * 
And after the discovery of another supporter of com- 
bustion in iodine, even before his anticipation had 
been published, and of a new acid containing it, 
which, for a time, was supposed to be identical with 
the muriatic, he was strengthened in the probability 
of the idea, and determined, as soon as possible, to 
subject it to the test of experiment At Florence 
he found the facilities required, and he immediately 
entered upon the inquiry. For making his experi- 
ments he was liberally allowed the use of the great 
lens in the cabinet of natural history, by means of 
which he was able to obtain simple and decisive 
results. The first fact he observed in using this 
instrument was, that when the diamond was once 
inflamed in oxygen gas, its combustion continued 
with great energy, like any other variety of carbon, 
unaided further by the solar heat. For the details 
of his processes, I must refer the chemical reader to 
the paper itself. The results were entirely negative. 
After the combustion of the diamond in oxygen gas 
there was no increase or diminution of the volume 
of the gas ; no water was produced, — not the 
slightest trace; and the acid gas generated had 
the common properties of carbonic acid gas&gt; -^ form* 

• PhiL Trana. 1817, p. 42. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 485 

ing with lime carbonate of lime ; and yielding 
charcoal, when decomposed by potassium. More- 
over, when intensely heated in chlorine gas, by means 
of the lens, the diamond underwent no alteration. 
From these results the inference was unavoidable, 
that diamond is merely crystallised carbon ; and from 
other results, obtained in experimenting, in a similar 
manner, on the common varieties of carbon,, it was 
necessary to infer, that, though they all contain cer- 
tain impurities, they are chemically essentially the 
same as the diamond, differing only in their state of 
aggregation, according to the original opinion of Mr. 
Tennant ; and thus overthrowing an opinion which 
had almost become an axiom, and which my brother 
himself was disposed to adopt, " that bodies cannot 
be exactly the same in composition, or chemical 
nature, and yet totally different in all their physical 
properties.*' 

In the beginning of April he quitted Florence 
for Rome ; and, as I conjecture, took the Perugia 
road, which, to a traveller entering Italy for the first 
time, is much more attractive than the route by 
Radicofani. However, which of the two it was 
is of no importance ; my only reason for believing 
that it was the former, is a description of scenery at 
this very season of the year, written from recollection 
some years after, with which he opens a chemical 
dialogue that was never completed. It thus com- 
mences: — 

" Scene — The Appe7iines above Perugia. 

" Poet. — Notwithstanding the magnificence of the 
Alpine country, and the beauty of the upper part of 
Italy, yet the scenery now before us has peculiar 

I I 3 



/ 



486 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

charms, dependent not merely upon the variety and 
grandeur of the objects which it displays, but like- 
wise upon its historical relations. The hills are all 
celebrated in the eariy history of Italy, and many of 
them are crowned with Etruscan towers. The lake of 
Thrasimene spreads its broad and calm mirror be- 
neath a range of hills covered with oak and chesnut ; 
and the eminence where Hannibal marshalled that 
army which had nearly deprived Rome of empire, is 
now of a beautiful green from the rising com. Here, 
the Tiber runs, a clear and bright blue mountain 
stream, meriting the epithet of cerulean bestowed 
upon it by Virgil ; and there, the Chiusan marsh 
sends its tributary streams from the same level to the 
rivers of Etruria and Latium. In the extreme dis- 
tance are the woods of the Sabine country, bright with 
the purple foliage of the Judas tree, extending along 
the sides of blue hills, which again are capped by 
snowy mountains. How rich and noble is the scene ! 
How vast its extent ! how diversified itscolours ! ** 

The subject of the dialogue is the chemical ele- 
ments. He chose this beautiful and impressive 
scene, belonging to history, to contrast the constancy 
of nature with the mutability of man, preliminary to 
explaining the laws on which that constancy depends. 

He remained in Rome nearly a month, and then 
went to Naples, where he spent about three weeks. 
He returned to Rome in the last week of May, and 
left it in the first week in June, with the intention of 
passing the summer in Switzeriand. 

\t is hardly necessary to observe, that both at 
Rome and at Naples he found unfailing sources of 
interest, as every person of an inquiring and reflect- 



SIE HUMPHRY DAVY. 487 

ing mind necessarily must, — where what is marvel- 
lous and beautiful in nature and art, of the past and 
of the present time, abound in such profusion, and 
occur in the most impressive forms. His last work, 
finished at Rome, his " Consolations in Travel," 
bear in almost every page indications of this inte- 
rest, which even increased, I believe, in his after 
visits, and especially in his last, when, owing to his 
feeble state of health, ordinary sources of enjoyment 
were closed to him. The same work contains many 
allusions to the incidents of this time, and to the 
observations which he made during this or the fol- 
lowing year. Thus, in the third dialogue, he men- 
tions his " safe passage through a party of brigands 
who once stopped him in the passes of the Appe- 
nines." This occurred between Rome and Naples ; 
and I have heard him say he had an amusing 
conversation in walking up a steep ascent of the 
road beyond Fondi with the captain of the party, 
who allowed him to pass unmolested, in compli- 
ment to his country. Thus, again, in the same dia- 
logue, he describes the triumphant return from 
banishment and prison of the venerable Pontiff^ 
Pius VII., and his entry into Rome, borne on the 
shoulders of the most distinguished artists, headed 
by Canova, which he himself witnessed.* And it 
was at Rome, not at Fontainebleau, I believe, that 
he had an opportunity of paying his respects to the 
Pope, " whose sanctity, firmness, meekness, and be- 
nevolence, he considered an honour to his church 
and human nature." It was during this period that 
he commenced those observations on volcanic action, 
and on the effects of deposition from water, which he 

• May, 1814. 
I I 4 



/ 

/ 



488 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

has described in the " Consolations/' in connection 
with his peculiar views respecting the great changes 
which have taken place on the surface of our globe. 
And of the six dialogues, of which the whole of this 
work consists, the scenes of three of them are laid in 
Southern Italy ; viz. in the Colosseum, on Vesuvius, 
and at Paestum. 

Amongst his note-books I can find but few remains 
which refer to this particular time. They are chiefly 
poetical, with a few notes on Somma. They may be 
worthy of insertion in further illustration of his tastes, 
feelings, and manner of observing. 

The following lines to Canova, with whom he now 
became acquainted, and from whom he received great 
attention, could hardly have been written elsewhere 
than at Rome. Whilst they are a tribute to the 
excellence of the man and of the artist, they are no 
weak proof of my brother's admiration of the art ; and 
may be brought forward in opposition to his hurried 
walk through the salons of the Louvre, described by 
Dr. Paris, as if he were insensible to the beauties of 
the arts of design, than which no opinion was ever 
more hastily formed or ill-founded.* 

" CANOVA. 

I *^ Thou wast a light of hrightness in an age 

When Italy was in the night of art : — 
She was thy country^ hut the world thy stage^ 

On which thou acted'st thy creative part. 
Blameless thy life — thy manners playful^ mild^ 
Master in art^ hut Nature's simplest child. 

* In opposition to the same statement, I may insert an extract from 
the diary which he kept the last time he was at Rome, referring in 
terms of high admiration to two statues then in the Vatican, and which 
had heen in the Museum of the Louvre when he first visited Paris : — 
^^ Jan. 24th, 1829^ went yesterday to the Museum, and admired the 
glorious works of old Greece, the Apollo and the Laocoon." 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 4$9 

Phidias of Rome ! like him thou stand'st luUime: 

And after artists shall essay to climh 

To that high temple where thou dwell'st alone^ 

Amidst the trophies Uiou from time hast wod. 

Generous to all^ hut most to rising merit ; 

By nohler praise awakening the spirit ; 

Yet all unconscious of the eternal fame^ 

The light of glory circling round thy name ! " 

The next lines are not less a tribute to nature, 
and a proof of the powerful influence which beautiful 
and impressive scenery was capable of exercising over 
his mind : — 



" THE SYBIL'S TEMPLE.* 

" Thy faith^ O Roman ! was a natural faith^ 
Well suited to an age in which the light 
IneiFahle gleam'd thro' ohscuring clouds 
Of ohjects sensible, — not yet reveal'd 
In noontide brightness on the Syrian mount. 
For thee, the Eternal Majesty of heaven 
In all things lived and moved, — and to its power 
And attributes poetic fancy gave 
The forms of human beauty, strength, and grace. 
The Naiad murmur'd in the silver stream. 
The Dryad whisper'd in the nodding wood, 
(Her voice the music of the Zephyr's breath) ; 
On the blue wave the sportive Nereid moved. 
Or blew her conch amidst the echoing rocks. 
I wonder not, that, moved by such a faith. 
Thou raised'st the Sybil's temple in this vale. 
For such a scene was suited well to raise 
The mind to high devotion, — to create 
Those thoughts indefinite which seem above 
Our sense and reason, and the hallowed dream 
Prophetic. — In the sympathy sublime, 
Wiih natural forms and sounds, the mind forgets 
Its present being, — images arise 
Which seem not earthly, — 'midst the awful rocks 
And caverns bursting with the living stream, — 
In force descending from the precipice, — 
Sparkling in sunshine, nurturing with dews 
A thousand odorous plants and fragrant flowers. 

• Tivoli. 



490 MEMOIRS OF TH£ LIFE OF 

In the sweet mnsic of the veraal woods^ 
From winged minstrels^ and the loader sounds 
Of mountain storms, and thundering cataracts^ 
The voice of inspiration well might oome ! " 



The following lines on Paestum, like the preceding, 
are without date : whether they were written now 
or afterwards, is of little importance. The reader of 
the " Consolations in Travel" will discover in them 
that animated description of this celebrated spot with 
which he opens the third dialogue : — 

'' ON A DISTANT VIEW OF PiESTUM. 

*' The mountains above were clear and bright^ 
Empurpled by the evening light. 
Not a single cloud was seen in the skj. 
But the wind was turbulent and high^ 
And full it blew on the Tyrrhene sea, 
VHiich rose in billowy majesty : 
Which rose^ but not in its stormy hue^ 
For its colour was brightest^ purest blue. 
Save where it foam'd in crested pride^ 
Wliite as the snow on the glacier s side. 
Tho' loud the wind, and high the breeze. 
Murmuring amidst the odorous trees. 
Yet Philomel, as if to prove 
More loud, as well as sweet, the voice of love. 
Threw from the Caruba her thrilling song. 
Her minstrel music wild and strong ; 
And gentle doves in thicket nigh. 
Heaved, scarcely audible, their sigh. 
Life seem*d in every thing to be I — 
The blades of maize -— the leafy tree — 
The cones that shook on the giant pine 
Seem'd moved by an impulse of power divine : «» 
Joy seem'd to dance in every thing ; 
The blast was from a zephyr's wing, 

Moisten'd by that balmy dew 
Which summer steals from spring. 

Wafting each instant odours new. 
'^liere faintly gleam'd the evening star. 
Thy temples, Paestum, from afar, 
Upraised their marble columns bright 
In the last gleams of purple light. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 491 

Above the wild deserted pkin^ 
Where death and silence seem'd to reign^ — 
Temples^ whose massy form and finish'd grace 
Speak of the genius of a Grecian race." 



The notes on Somma will be given a little further 
on, with some notices of the scientific researches in 
which he was engaged during the following winter 
and spring, on his second visit to the south of 
Italy, 

Of his journey northward into Switzerland I have 
no particulars to communicate, and nothing of inter- 
est to relate, except that at Milan he had the pleasure 
of seeing Voltd, and the honour of forming the ac- 
quaintance of a philosopher to whom modern science 
lies under so great an obligation. My brother thus 
speaks of him in his Sketches of Distinguished Men, 
already alluded to : — 

" Volta I saw at Milan, in 1814, at that time ad- 
vanced in years, — I think nearly seventy, and in bad 
health. His conversation was not brilliant ; his views 
rather limited, but marking great ingenuity. His 
manners were perfectly simple. He had not the air 
of a courtier, or even of a man who had seen the 
world. Indeed, I can say generally of the Italian 
S9avans, that, though none of them had much dignity 
or grace of manner, yet they were all free from 
affectation." 

From Milan he crossed the Alps by the Simplon, 
and arrived at Geneva in the last week of June. He 
remained there till the middle of September, residing 
in a country house, charmingly situated on the banks 
of the lake. These three months, I have heard him 
say, were spent very agreeably : the charm of the best 
society (chiefly English) was added to that of mag- 



492 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

nificent scenery, and of a delightful summer climate ; 
and he had besides the pleasure of anghng. He was 
able even to enjoy his favourite amusement in the 
lake from the garden of the villa, which descended 
to the water's edge. 

In returning to winter in Italy he visited some of 
the most remarkable scenery in the different cantons 
on the way to the Tyrol, through which he now 
passed for the first time, I shall extract from a 
note-book, two little descriptions of scenery, written 
at the moment, to record some of the peculiarities 
of a region of which he was ever after extremely 
fond : — 

" October 6. 1814. — Detained at Inspruck two 
hours. Came to-day only two posts. The scenery 
to-day by far the finest I have seen in the Tyrol, and 
as fine as I have ever seen. Deep glens — in two of 
them two blue rivers, rolling and foaming over rocks 
of syenite and micaceous schist. The depth of the 
glens much greater than in Switzerland ; narrow, and 
pine and birch below ; then cultivated patches, and 
then pine, and birch, and larch again ; and, above 
all, very high mountains, dark and frowning, but 
having snows on their gullies and bosoms, and on 
their tops. The sky harmonised with the grandeur 
and solemnity of the scene; it was clouded, but 
something like a soft October day in England. The 
clouds, of the purest white, played amongst the 
mountains, and gave to their dark firs and nodding 
rocks a deeper gloom by contrast. Now and then 
the sun burst forth, and made the yellow birch lighten 
into tints of gold.*' 

" October 12. at Vicenza. — Left Trente yester- 
day morning at half past five o'clock, and passed 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 493 

through some of the most beautiful scenery I ever 
saw. At first our road was up a mountain, where six 
horses were necessary. Features the same as those 
in the neighbourhood of Trente, and exquisitely 
beautiful; the valleys clothed with vines sporting 
round mulberry trees, elms, and fruit trees, and now 
displaying ripe grapes. The mountains all limestone, 
at least those so near as to enable me to ^udge of 
their nature; and blue, grey, reddish, or white. 
The town of Trente, in the midst of a highly culti- 
vated valliey, watered by the Adige ; here a sober, pas- 
toral, clear river, as large or larger than the Tay, 
containing trout, barbel, and eels, and probably a 
few grayling. The road from Trente to Bassano is 
exquisitely beautiful, and the beautiful passing into 
the sublime. When we came to the division of the 
waters (those which feed the Adige, and those that 
feed the Brenta), a rude sort of porphyry began to 
appear, and micaceous schist ; and the hills crowned 
with snow, above the Brenta, probably were micaceous 
schist. On descending, variety of clothed hills, rich 
in the variegated vegetation of birch, oak, wild 
grape, thorn, clematis, &amp;c. ; a small lake, and then a 
larger one, beautifully wooded, sending a stream 
down, very small, to form the Brenta.** 

In returning to Rome he went by the way of Fer- 
rara and Bologna, and crossed the Appenines to 
Florence. At Pietra Mala, in the midst of the 
mountains, and at the height of several thousand feet 
above the level of the sea, is a remarkable column of 
flame, of considerable magnitude, which is almost 
perpetually burning ; and in the neighbourhood of 
it, in more than one place, the springs are agitated 
by the disengagement of air, which kindles on the 



4i94f MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

approach of a light, and burns with the same kind q£ 
flame as the great column. In passing through Pietra 
Mala, he had some of this air collected ; and at Flo^ 
rence, on submitting it to analysis, he found it was 
carburetted hydrogen, similar to coal gas ; and he, of 
course, inferred that it is of similar origin, prc^ably 
produced from a bed of coal, acted on by subter- 
raneous heat. These particulars he communicated 
to me, in a letter which I received from him during 
his journey, but which, with others written to me 
during this and his second journey on the Continent, 
have not, I regret, been preserved. 

During the whole of this winter, which he spent at 
Rome, he was, as usual, variously engaged. The 
laboratory, the Campagna, and society, with the et 
cetera of this wonderful city, aflforded him ample 
amusement and occupation. 

The society was of that kind to which he alludes 
in his " Consolations in Travel,"—*" numerous and di- 
versified, containing many intellectual foreigners, and 
some distinguished Britons, who had a higher object 
in making this city their residence than mere idleness 
and vague curiosity." 

In the Campagna and the adjoining country he took 
exercise with his gun, and completely recovered his 
youthful cacciatore taste ; and from this time he con- 
tinued to be almost as keen a fowler as he was before 
an anglen Nor is it more than might be expected 
that this taste should have revived here, where there 
is so much to excite it ; the vast quantity of wild 
fowl, the great variety and succession of birds of pas^ 
sage, the peculiar nature of the ground, and the im- 
pressive features of the surrounding scen^y. 

The results of his chemical researches durii^ this 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 495 

winter he communicated to the Royal Society in three 
papers, which were published in the " Philosophical 
Transactions" for 1815, with the following titles and 
dates : — 

" Some Experiments and Observations on the Co- 
lours used in Painting by the Ancients."— Jan, 14, 

" Some Experiments on a Solid Compound of lo- 
dine and Oxygen, and on its Chemical Agencies," — 
February 10th. 

" On the Action of Acids on the Salts usually 
called the Hyper-oxymuriates, and on the Gases 
produced from them." — Feb. 15th. 

The first of these papers is very well deserving of 
being studied by the enlightened painter, who takes 
an interest in the history and in the preservation of 
the works of his art : he will find in it an ample ac- 
count of the colours which have proved permanent in 
ancient paintings ; with suggestions for the selection 
of colours, and surfaces capable of resisting the effects 
of time, founded on chemical principles. Thus, in 
relation to surfaces, for perishable canvass, or copper, 
or wood, he recommends substituting plates of mar* 
ble, or of a composition in imitation of marble ; and, 
in relation to colours, he recommends excluding en-^ 
tirely all of animal or vegetable origin, all of which 
are more or less fugitive, and employing only such as 
are capable of resisting the severest tests of change, 
of which modern chemistry offers a sufiicient number 
and variety : and, further, he recommends, at least for 
the great works of art, both in the mixture of the 
colours and the varnishing of the picture, the rejec- 
tion of oil and resinous substances ; substituting for oil- 
painting painting in fresco, and endeavouring to dis- 
cover varnishes composed of unalterable materials. 



496 MEMOIRS OF THB LIFE OF 

The two other papers are purely chemical. One 
contains an account of a new compound of oxygen 
and iodine, which he succeeded in forming by pass- 
ing euchlorine over iodine, when two combinations 
resulted ; one consisting of chlorine and iodine, the 
other of oxygen and iodine ; both solid, but which he 
was able to separate easily by heat, in consequence 
of their different degrees of volatility. He had pre- 
viously, as has been noticed, discovered a class of 
salts in which iodine performed the same part as 
chlorine in the hyper-oxymuriates ; and he now satis- 
fied himself that this new compound in the iodine- 
salts acted as an acid, and neutralised the bases, and 
that when combined with water it exhibited the or- 
dinary properties of an acid. 

In his third paper he describes another new com- 
pound, which he obtained from chlorate of potash, by 
forming this salt (deprived of its water of crystalliz- 
ation by fusion) into a paste with strong sulphuric 
acid, and subjecting it to a very gentle heat in a retort 
of the smallest possible capacity. A deep greenish 
yellow gas was thus generated, of a brighter and more 
intense colour than euchlorine, and more readily and 
dangerously explosive. He found it composed of one 
volume of chlorine and two of oxygen, — the three vo- 
lumes condensed by union into two. It immediately 
occurred to him, that euchlorine may be a mixture of 
this new gas and chlorine ; and later experiments, es- 
pecially those of M. Soubeiran*, and, I may add, some 
which I have made, appear to favour the idea that 
it is such a mixture, and not a definite compound. 

Dn Paris, in his life of my brother, in giving an 

* Annales de Chimie et de Physique^ toiti. xlviii. p. 118. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 497 

account of his inquiries relative to chlorine, states, 
that after his discovery of the gas in question, he en- 
tered into " a very warm controversy with M. Gay 
Lussac respecting chloric acid (the discovery of this 
gentleman), and maintained an opinion regarding its 
constitution which he afterwards abandoned, and 
which Dr. Paris asserts he had reason to believe that 
he regretted ever having advanced.* Such a statement 
I consider in nowise wan-anted. As my brother's 
view of the composition of chloric acid was a mere 
statement of facts, it is most improbable that he 
should change it, much less regret it ; and I am con- 
fident he did neither. The paper in which he ex- 
pressed his ideas at most length on the subject, hardly 
deserves to be called warmly controversial j it is closely 
and powerfully argumentative, and an excellent ex- 
ample of discussion on a recondite chemical question. 
I shall give it below, that the chemical reader may 
judge for himself, t It is entitled, «*On the Ana- 
logies between the Undecompounded Substances and 



• Life, p. 210. 

f*^Onthe Analogies between the Undecompounded Substances^ and 

on the Constitution of Acids, 

" In a work publiahed in 1812 (Elements of Chemical Philosophy)^ 
I have pointed out some of the analogies between the substances consi- 
dered in the present state of our knowledge as undecompounded, and I 
have endeavoured to found a classification upon these analogies : — 

'' I placed oxygen and chlorine tc^ether, because, in combining with 
inflammable bodies and metals, they produce heat and light in a much 
higher d^ee than any other known species of matter, and because many 
of their compounds are possessed of analogous chemical and dectricid 
qualities. At the same time I stated that there is a general chain of 
resemblance between all the chemical agents ; and that while sulphur is 
analogous to chlorine in one of its properties, it possesses more general 
resemblances to phosphorus. 

'^ The progress of chemical discovery since that time has added new 
links in the system of analogy, and modified some of the ancient links. 

VOL. !• K K 



498 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

on the Constitution of Acids." It was published in 
the second number of the " Journal of Science and 



The singular body iodine, whilst it strongly resembles chlorine in most 
of its chemical qualities^ is still more analogous than chlorine to sulphur; 
and in lustre^ opacity^ specific gravity^ and the high proportional quan- 
tity in which it unites to other matter, it is similar to the metals. With 
the metals, indeed^ it may be said to be distinctly connected by means 
of tdllurium^ which, as I have shown, by uniting to hydrogen^ forms a 
substance having acid properties. 

^' Carbon^ boron, and silicon^ appear the links between phosphorus and 
sulphur and the metals; and probably the bases of zircona, gludna, and 
alumina, will form a part of the chain between the metals of the alka- 
line earths and the common metals. 

'* Hydrogen and azote stand almost alone ; yet hydrogen is connected 
with the common inflammable hodies by the manner in which it com. 
bines with oxygen and chlorine, and azote resembles carbon in the pro. 
portional quantity in which it enters into combination, and in its want of 
attraction for metallic substancos. Fluorine, probably, if it could be t&gt;btained 
insulated, would form the link between oxygen and chlorine and azote. 

^^ M. Gay Lussac, in an elaborate paper published in the ^Annalesde 
Chimie' for July 1814, in which he advanced many views, reasonings, 
and calculations^ upon the composition of the compounds of chlorine, 
exactly the same as those I have given in three papers published three 
years before in ^ The Transactions of the Royal Society,' endeavours to 
show that there is a stronger analogy between chlorine, iodine, and 
sulphur, than between the same bodies and oxygen ; and he wishes them 
to be separated as a class from oxygen, and placed in a class with 
sulphur. I do not admit the force of his reasoning on this subject ; 
the bodies to which he refers bear only one marked point of resemhlance 
to sulphur, that which I have mentioned above ; and they difier from it 
in their electrical relations, and in the chemical and electrical nature of 
all their other compounds, and agree in these respects with oxygen. 
Like oxygen, in voltaic arrangements they are determined to the positive 
surface, whereas sulphur is separated at the negative surface. The com. 
pounds they form with metals strongly resemble those formed hy 
oxygen : they are electric, and many of them soluble in water^ and 
possessed of acid properties; whereas those formed by sulphur are 
all non.electric and insoluble. 

'* I cannot admit M. Gay Lussac's views on the classification of the 
undecompounded substances, nor can I adopt his ideas respecting their 
properties as chemical agents. He considers hydrogen as an alkalizing 
principle, and azote as an acidifying principle. This is an attempt to 
introduce into chemistry a doctrine of occult qualities, and to refer to 
some mysterious and inexplicable energy what must depend upon a 
peculiar corpuscular arrangements If hydrogen be an alkalizing prin- 
ciple, it is strange that it should form some of the strongest adds by 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, 499 

the Alts/' edited at the Royal Institution ; and was 
followed in the same number immediately by another 



uniting to bodies not in themselves acid ; and if azote be an acidifying 
principle^ it is equally strange that it should form nearly nine tenths of 
the weight of the volatile alkali. It is impossible to infer what will be 
the qualities of a compound from the qualities of its constituents ; and 
if M. Gay Lussac's views were correct^ the prussic basis of azote and 
carbon ought to have its acid properties diminished^ and not increased^ as 
he has proved them to be, by combination with hydrogen. 

'' When certain properties are fqund belonging to a compound^ we 
have no right to attribute these properties to any of its elements to the 
exclusion of the rest, but they must be regarded as the result of conu 
bination. 

'^ When M. Gay Lussac assumes that oxygen and hydrogen, in the 
proportions in which they form water, are passive as elements of a 
combination, it is a pure assumption, and opposed to the whole series 
of chemical facts. Hydrogen with chlorine forms a strong acid ; 
oxygen with phosphorus forms a strong acid; and supposing water 
combined with the compound of phosphorus and chlorine, the results 
contain two of the most energetic known acids : phosphorane does not 
redden litmus paper; but if it be dissolved in water, it becomes a solution 
of muriatic and phosphorous acids. 

" If oxygen and hydrogen, in the proportion in which they form 
water, are to be considered as passive, as neutralizing each other in all 
combinations in which they exist, then almost all the vegetable acids 
must be considered as acids of carbon, which, though containing much 
less oxygen than carbonic acid, and some of them less even than car. 
bonic oxide, have yet strong acid powers. 

" 1 have discovered a gaseous combination of four proportions of 
oxygen and one of chlorine, which has no acid properties. M. Gay 
Lussac has discovered a compound of two proportions of hydrogen, one 
of chlorine, and six of oxygen, which has acid properties ; but he con. 
siders this substance merely as chlorine acidified by oxygen, and 
neglects the hydrogen, without which he allows, however, it cannot 
exist. He supposes that this acid of one proportion of chlorine and 
five of oxygen exists in all the hyper-oxymuriates, but he does not 
support his supposition by any proof. The hyper-oxymuriates are, as 
I showed six years ago, composed of one proportion of chlorine, one of 
a basis, and six of oxygen. Hydrogen, in M. Gay Lussac's chloric 
acid, may be considered as acting the part of a base ; and it is an im. 
portant circumstance in the law of definite proportions, that when one 
metallic or inflammable basis combines with certain proportions of a 
compound, all the others combine with the same proportions. 

'^ M. Gay Lussac states, that if the chloric acid be not admitted as a 

pure combination of chlorine and oxygen, neither can the nitric or sul- 

&lt; phuric acids be admitted as pure combinations of oxygen. This is 

K K 2 



500 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

paper by him, " On the Prussic Basis and Acid/' 
showing that he w|is most willing to do justice to M. 



perfectly obvious. An acid composed of five proportions of oxygen and 
one of nitrogen u altogether hypothetical ; and it is a simple statement 
of facts to say that liquid nitric acid is a compound of two proportions 
of hydrogen^ one of azote, and six of oxygen ; and^ as I showed long 
ago^ the only difference between nitre and hyper-oxymuriate of potash 
is^ that one contains a proportion of azote^ and the other a proportion 
of chlorine. 

^' There are very few of the substances which have been always con- 
sidered as neutral salts^ that really contain the acids and the alkalies from 
which they are formed. The muriates and the fluates must be admitted 
to contain neither acids nor alkaline bases. Most of the prussiates^ 
M. Gay Lussac has lately shown^ are in the same case. Nitric and suL 
phuric acids cannot be procured from the nitrates and sulphates without 
the intervention of bodies containing hydrogen; and if nitrate of 
ammonia were to be judged of from the results of its decomposition, it 
must be regarded as a compound of water and nitrous oxide. 

*^ Only those acids which are compounds of oxygen and inflammable 
bases appear to enter into combination with the fixed alkalies and alkaj 
Hue earths without alteration, and it is in^possible to define the nature 
of the arrangement of the elements in their neulral compounds. The 
phosphate and carbonate ^f lime have ixmdi less the diaracter attribntbd 
to neutro*8aUne bodies than calcane (muriate of hme)i an4 yet this last 
body is not known to contain either acid or alkaHne matter. The 
chloriodic add, the phosganic acid, and the binary adds containing 
hydrogen, combine with ammonia without deoompositiQn, - but they 
appear to be decomposed in acting upon the fixed alkahes or alkaline 
earths ; and yet the solid substances they form have all the characters 
which were formerly regarded as peculiar to neutral salts consisting of 
acids and alkaUes, though they none of them contain the add, 
and only the two first of the series the alkalies, from which they are 
formed. 

'^ The substitution of anah^ for &amp;ct is the bane of chemical phi* 
losophy ; the Intimate use of analogy is to connect facts together, and 
to guide to new experiments. 

'^As I cannot adopt M. Gay Lussac's opinions^ so neither can I 
approve of his nomenclature. To call the compounds of chlorine and 
iodine chlorures and iodures, is to place chlorine and iodine in the class 
of infiammable bodies, and I prefer to these denominations chlorides and 
iodes. M. Gay Lussac has called sulphuretted hydrogen hydro-sulphuzic 
acid; a term which has already been applied to sulphuric add, the oil 
of vitriol of commerce. Hydro-chloric add would signify chloric add 
combined with water, and therefore, accor4ing to M* Gay Lussac's own 
views, is more applicable to his cliloric acid than to muriatic add.' 



»» 



I 



1 

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 561 

Gay Lussac, and had pleasure in acknowledging hfe 
merit. It commences thus : — " In the last article I 
have defended some opinions of my own, and com- 
bated some of M. Gay Lussac's. In this article the 
object I propose is one much more agreeable to my 
feelings — to offer my experimental confirmation of 
the very elaborate and ingenious researches of M. Gay 
Lussac on the prussic acid and the prussic base." 

It would be for the advantage of science were such 
a proceeding more frequently followed, and also his 
conduct in delicately abstaining from entering upon 
a subject of inquiry then prosecuted by another : thus, 
in this same paper, after having confirmed some of the 
principal results of M. Gay Lussac, he stopped, add* 
ing, he would " not detail any experiment of research 
on a subject which is peculiarly M. Gay Lussac' s." 

The following letter to my mother written at this 
time may be worth inserting, as showing the interest 
he took in the geological society then forming in 
his native town, and his feeling on the subject of the 
war then carrying on with America. 

"Rome, Jan. 11. 1815. 

" My dear Mother, 

" Tell Betsy that I am much obliged to her for 
her kind letter, and delighted to-' hear that you are 
all well. * * * * * 

" I am very happy to hear of a disposition to 
scientific activity in my native town, and shall be 
happy if I can do any thing to be useful to the 
museum, I will send to it some specimens from the 
Continent ; and if there are subscriptions, pray get 
my name put down for 20/1 

K K 3 



50S MEMOIRS OP THfi LIFE OF 

" We have almost as much society here as in Lon- 

don, and a great part of it our old friends. * ♦ 

# • • • * • 

" You get all the news much quicker than we do 
from Vienna. We all hope for a long peace. We 
all hope that the glory England has gained in a war 
for the defence of the liberty of Europe will not be 
thrown away ; and that the petty squabble with 
America, which if successful can do nothing but 
increase our debt, will be speedily terminated. 

" A happy new year, and many of them, is the 
sincere wish of your affectionate son, 

" H. Davy." 

In the beginning of March my brother went from 
Kome to Naples, where he remained between a fort- 
night and three weeks. As in his preceding visit, 
his attention here was specially directed to the study 
of the surrounding volcanic regions, and the inves- 
tigation of the phenomena of volcanic eruption. I 
shall reserve the statement of his results for a further 
occasion ; in this place, I shall give merely the few 
rough notes which he wrote down at the time, chiefly 
respecting Somma, a mountain which excited greatly 
his curiosity, and which he many times explored, and 
carefully examined. 

" Yesterday, March l6th, ascended Vesuvius, and 
went round the base of Somma, a most interesting 
mountain ; strata of basaltic, leucitic, and horn- 
blende lava, alternating with ashes, sand, and decom- 
posed stones ; some strata of lava vertical and like 
whin dykes ; others more or less inclined ; the 
whole a grand scene of confusion, as if a mountain 
formed of ashes and small eruptions beneath pressure 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVT. 503 

(probably of the sea) had been split in pieces, and 
its chasms filled up by very fluid stony matter injected 
from below." — He gives a sketch of the veinJike 
strata which characterise Somma, of which the fol- 
lowing is a copy : — 




*' In Somma," he continues, " the lava has much 
the appearance of primitive rock, and one variety is 
much like the hornblende rock of North Wales. 

" I think there can be no doubt that the eruption 
which raised the cone of Vesuvius split Somma 
asunder, and threw a part of it off towards the sea ; 
— thus Vesuvius rises out of Somma." 



504 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF 

He proceeds,— ** Qtuerej Was this at the time of 
Pliny ? 

« Somma itself was evidently a very old mountain. 
None of the lavas of Vesuvius are to be campled 
to those of Somma for crystallization. As appears 
from Montecelli's collection, almost all the known 
minerals, primary and secondary, are thrown up by 
Vesuvius ; and in the base of the mountain 'near the 
hermitage, one finds almost aU the primitive rocks. 
Granite, the same as that of Cornwall, is found 
amongst the products of Vesuvius, and is probably 
a formation. Do not aU these stones come from the 
grand deep reservoir where they are formed by slow 
ciystallization ? Nothing is more common in vol- 
canic countries, than for a thin stratum of lava to rise 
through a mountain of ashes and to overflow them. 
This is the case at Monte Nuovo.** 

Deterred by the plague (which a short time before 
had broken out at Malta, and in the Levant), from 
extending his travels further to the eastward, as he 
had originally designed, he set out on his return to 
England ; he again traversed the Tyrol, and avoided 
France by a detour through part of Germany and 
Flanders ; embarked at Ostend ; landed at Dover ; 
and arrived in London on the 23d of April. 

The only notes I have been able to find, kept on 
this homeward journey, are the few following, relating 
to his favourite Tyrol, and the north of Italy border- 
ing on it : — 

" March 30th, 1815. — I have again passed through 
the Tyrol as far as Botzin, where we arrived at half- 
past three this day. We quitted Verona yesterday 
morning, and came on to Trente, by the Roverido 
road. The mountains all limestone ; and about a mile 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 605 

from Roverido, a scene of savage wildness and de- 
solation, such as I never before saw. The valley of 
stones in Devonshire is a miniature of it. The Adige 
does not contain much fish, and rolls through mea- 
dows with rows of mulberry trees. The olive is 
little seen after Roverido, but the vine is the tree of 
the country. The limestone mountains here begin 
to be topped with firs rising amidst the snows ; the 
Mediterranean pine below, the Alpine pine above ; 
Switzerland as it were mingling with Italy. The 
spring just beginning, but the weather very hot in 
the valley of Botzin ; as hot as our July. The rocks 
just below Botzin very picturesque porphyry. The 
river very low and clear, but I think much larger 
than the Spey. Around Botzin very grand scenery j 
peaks of granite rising in the east and north from 
snowy mountains, pines below, and fresh wood in the 
valley, displa3dng the delicate green of early spring." 

" April 2. — In going up the Bremen, observed 
two interesting phenomena. The rivers formed by 
the melting of the snow coming in contact with the 
warm air, blowing up from Italy, threw down steam 
from the air, so as to seem as if boiling. Saw a num- 
ber of small glaciers, formed by the snow-water, 
trickling down amidst snow in the day, and frozen in 
the night. Pines and larches the abundant trees, 
after passing the Bremen. A number of fine castles 
on the mountains in the Tyrol.** 

It was either this spring, or the preceding autumn, 
when amongst the mountains of the Tyrol, that my 
brother received a present of a Tyrolese rifle from 
the hands of a patriotic native, who had used it in 
the war of defence, so long and so heroically, main- 
tained against the invaders of his country. The 
manner of receiving this present was the following 



506 MEMOIBS OF THE LIFE OF 

as related in conversation by the distinguished and 
kind-hearted individual in whose possession it now 
is. * I shall give the narration, as I had it, from a 
friend who wrote it down an hour or two after bear- 
ing it, knowing how much it would interest me. After 
mentioning how he had formed my brother's acquaint- 
ance, when young in the voyage of life, and happy in 
the enjoyment of simple pleasures, Sir Walter Scott 
continued in his kind way : " There was one very 
good thing about him, he never forgot a friend ; and I 
tell you a thing he did to me that makes me particu- 
larly say so. When he was travelling in the Tyrol, 
the old patriot leader, Speckbacker, was very ill, 
suffering from rheumatism, or something of that sort ; 
and when he heard there was a great philosopher in 
the neighbourhood, he thought of course he must be 
a doctor, and sent to beg some advice about bis 
complaint. Sir Humphry did not profess to know 
much of medicine, but he gave him something, which 
luckily relieved his pain ; and then the gratitude of 
the old chief made him feel quite unhappy because 
he refused to take any fee. So Sir Humphry said, 
' Well, that you may not feel unhappy about not 
making me any return for my advice, I'll ask if* 
you have any old pistol, or rusty bit of a sword, that 
was used in your Tyrolese war of defence, for I have 
a friend that would be deUghted to have any such 
article; and you may depend on its being hung 
up in his hall, and the story of it told for many 
a year to come.* Speckbacker struck his hands 
together, much pleased with the request, and said, 
* Oh, I have the very thing ! you shall have the gun 
that I used myself when I shot thirty Bavarians in 

• This was written in the winter of 1831-2, just after Sir Walter 
Scott's visit to Malta. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. 507 

one day/ The illustrious gun was given accord- 
ingly to Sir Humphry, who brought it with him on 
his next visit to Scotland, and deposited it with me, 
at Abbotsford, himself." * 

The following letter to my mother was written 
soon after his return : — 

'' May 5. Nerot's Hotd^ Clifford Street^ London. 

" My dear Mother, 
** You will have heard from John of our safe re- 
turn. I wrote to you from Naples, and from Brus- 
sels. I hope you received my letters, 

" We have had a very agreeable and instructive 
journey, and Lady Davy agrees with me in thinking 
that England is the only country to live in, however 
interesting it may be to see other countries, 

" I yesterday bought a good house in Grosvenor 
Street, and we shall sit down in this happy land. 

" I beg you to give my best and kindest love to 
my sisters, and to remember me with all affection to 
my aunts. 

" I am, my dear Mother, 

" Your very affectionate Son, 

« H. Davy.'' 

* Sir Walter Scott^ about the same time^ in conversation with me 
respecting Dr. Paris's Life of my brother^ strongly expressed his disap- 
proval of it^ as might be expected from his own kindly and generous 
nature. His manner was stronger than his words^ of the dislike he felt 
towards it ; he said^ '^ I am not pleased with the book^ it is not kindly 
or gentlemanly written." These^ I believe^ were his words ; so I find 
them in a note of the conversation which I made immediately after^ 
dated Dec. 7* 1831. I thought it desirable to put on record such a testi- 
mony of the highest authority^ and right to give it^ to counteract Dr. 
Paris's evil report. 



END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 



MEMOIRS

                                                          OF

                         THE LIFE

                                                          OF

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART.

                     LLDRRS

           FOREIGN ASSOCIATE OF THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE, &c.

                                               BY

                              ms BROTHER,

      JOHN DAVY, M.D. F.R.S. &c.

                 IN TWO VOLUMES.

                     VOL. II.

                 LONDON:

LONGMAN,  REES,                `PRINTED FOR.  & LONGMAN,

                 ORME, BROWN, GREEN,

                     PATERNOSTER-RO\V.

                 1836.

     " Vita enim mortuorum in memoria vivorum est posita." -- Cw. Philip. ix.

     " The affections are their own justification. The Light of Love in our
  Hearts is a satisfactory evidence that there is a body of worth in the minds
\ of our friends or kindred, whence that Light has proceeded."

                                                                         Wonnswon.-m, Essay upon Epitaphs.

        Library System
Semnveerrasilty  of  Wlscon      `
                                    ~M a d`lson
728 State Street             Sm

Madison, WI 53706-1494
U.S.A.

mum                                         0&9
         `

                                   3
                                                                                                                              -xi')

Lv. .          CONTENTS

                                    OF

         THE second VOLUME.

                               CHAPTER

Researches on Fire-damp.-- Discovery of Safety Lamp.-- Dif

   ferent Forms of this Lamp.--Extracts from Communications
   relative to the Use of the Lamp. --- Mr. P]ayfair's Observations
   on it. -- Researches on Flame. -- Public Dinner at Newcastle.
   --Present of Plate in acknowledgment of the Benefit of the

  Safety Lamp. -- Is created Baronet.--Letters from Mr. Buddle,

   vindicating, after long Trial, the Value of the Safety Lamp.
                                                                                                  Page
                                      I.

                                              a

                                                                                                       1

         CHAPTER II.

Further Chemical Researches.--Letters tohis Mother.--Ex
tracts from his Note-books, Philosophical, Religious, and Poli

tical.-- Remarks on them.--A Specimen of his Philosophical
                 - - - - 61
Poetry.  --

         CHAPTER III.

it.-His second Journey on the Continent. -- Notices respecting

Observations on the Formation of Mists.--Extracts from his

Journal of an Excursion into the Tyrol. ---- Verses written at the21
Baths of Lucca. -- Experiments on unrolling the Hercule.

neum M SS.-- Fragment of Dialogue descriptive of an Erup
tion of Vesuvius.--His Researches at Vesuvius.--Opinion
concerning the Nature of Volcanic Action. -- Notice of Sir

Joseph Banks, whom he succeeds as President of the Royal

Society.--Particulars of him in connection with this Appoint
ment. -- Observations on the Qflice.
                                      -  -  - 97

vi CONTENTS.

           CHAPTER IV.

Letters to his Brothen--Researches on Electro-Magnetism.

Letter to his Mother.--Extract from Note-book expressive of
State of Mind. -- Further Researches on Electro-Magnetism.

Excursion to Ireland.--Experiments on the Electrical Pheno

mena exhibited in 'vacuo.--His last Visit to his Native Place.

--Letter to his Friend Mr. Poole.--Researches on the Fluids

in the Cavities of Crystalline Minerals.-- Letter to his

Brother from Scotland. --Verses entitled " The Eagles."--- A

new Phenomenon of Electro-Magnetism.--His Suggestion to

Mr. Faraday, which led to the Discovery of the Liquefaction of

many of the Gases.--Proposal for their Application as Me

chanical Powers.--His Rights on the Subject vindicated.--
Letter to Mr. Edmund Davy from Scotland.--Letter to his

Brothen--Verses on Lord Byron whilst living.--Verses on
him after his Death. -- Verses written at Ashburnham

Place   - - - - - - Page 139

                               CHAPTER V.

Researches on the Corrosion of the Copper Sheathing of Ships,
   and on its Prevention. -- His last Bakerian Lecture " on the
   Relation of Electrical and Chemical Changes."--Journal of
   an Excursion to Norway and Sweden. --Verses written at
   Copenhagen. --Notices of Berzelius, Oersted, Gauss, Schumacher.
   --Verses written at Ulswater. --Letter to his Sister.-- Para
   lytic Attack. -- Notices of a Journey through France into Italy.
   --Verses written at Ravenna. - - - 171

           CHAPTER VI.

His Occupations at Ravenna.--Pursuits in Natural History.--Ex

tracts from Note-bool<s.--Extracts from his Journal through
Southern Austria.--Verses " on the Fall of the Traun."-- Part

of a Letter to Mr. Gilbert, resigning the Oflice of President

of the Royal Society.--Continuati0n of Journal.--Returns

to England.---- Occupations in his valetudinary State.--Notices
of his Dialogues entitled " Salmonia, or Days of Fly-fishing."

--Character of his Friend Dr. Babington.--Extracts from Sal
                        .
monia.  -  -  .            - Q32

                              CONTENTS.                      vii

                CHAPTER VII.

Revisits the Continent. -- Extracts from his Journal. -- Letters to

his Brother from Aussee in Styria, and from Ischl.-- Extracts

from his Journal in continuation.--" The last of the O'Do_

noghues," an  Irish Story, written at Wurzen.---Letter to    his
Brother from                                                  at
               Laybach. -- Experiments on the Torpedo

Trieste.--Letters from Rome.--- Occupations   there. --Note  `--on
the British Museum, with Suggestions for its  Improvement.
Sudden Attack of dangerous Illness. -- Letters written from
his Dictation.-- Particulars of him during his Illness. -- Notices
of little Excursions with him in the Neighbourhood of Rome. __

Journey from Rome to Geneva.--His Notice of Dr. Thomas
Young. -- The Close of his Life. ---- Public Funeral._ Conjec
                              -          - - Page 306
tures respecting his Malady.

                CHAPTER VIII.

His Posthumous Work, " Consolations in Travel, or Last Days of` a

Philosopher."-- Notices respecting it. --- Description of remark
able Dreams. --- Fragment of a Vision. -- Particulars of` his

Person, Disposition, and Habits.--Letters of his to the late
Mr. Coleridge. -- Portraits of him. -- Letter from Mr. Poole re
ferring to one. -- Letter from the same Gentleman on his Cha

racter generally. ---Concluding Remarks.-- Lines on him by
Mr. Sotheby. -  -                             - 869
                              -          -


               MEMOIRS

                                                     OF

                        THE LIFE

                                                     OF

       SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

              CHAPTER I.

RESEARCHES ON FIRE- DAMP.---DISCOVERY OF A SAFETY LAMP. ---- DIF
    FERENT FORMS 0l<` THIS LAMP.----EXTRACTS FROM COMMUNICATIONS
   RELATIVE TO THE USE OF THE LAMP.---MR~ PLAYFAIRIS OBSERVA
   TIONS ON IT- --~ RESEARCHES ON FLAME. -- PUBLIC DINNER AT NEW

    CASTLE-----PRESENT OF PLATE IN ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF THE BENE
    FIT OF THE SAFETY LAMP. ---IS CREATED BARONET----- LETTER!
   FROM ME. BUDDLE, VINDICATING, AFTER LONG TRIAL, THE VALUE

    OF THE SAFETY LAMP

Soon after my brother's return from the Continent
he entered upon a new train of inquiry, -- the inves

tigation of fire-damp, with a view to the protection
of the mines in which it occurs, and the workmen

who are exposed to its destructive agency;-- ob
jects of the first importance in relation to the inte
rests of humanity, and hardly less so as regards
national wealth, and which were completely accom
plished by his well-known discovery of the safety

lamp.

in  He    fir"stPhpiulobsliosphehdicatl hTerarnessualctstioonfs,t"heininvaessteigriaetsionof

     the

papers, which rapidly succeeded each other, and

.; which were communicated to the Royal Society with

    VOL. 11.  B

2 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

out hesitation or delay, without any mystery or con

cealment, and in the simplest and least ostentatious

manner possible. When he had brought the inquiry

to a certain close, he wrote a connected account of

all his labours on fire-damp and flame. The work
was entitled, " On the Safety Lamp, for preventing

Explosions in Mines, Houses lighted by Gas, Spirit

Warehouses, and Magazines in Ships, &c.; with
some Remarks on Flame," -- " with the hope (as he
states in the preface) of presenting a permanent

record on this important subject to the practical

miner, and of enabling the friends of humanity to

estimate and apply those resources of science, by

Iwhich a great and permanently existing evil may be

subdued." He adds, " have given the extracts

Ifrom my papers nearly in the order in which they
were published, which will,  hope, both render

the facts more intelligible, and show the gradual

progress of the inquiry, in which every step was

furnished by experiment and induction, in which

nothing can be said to. be owing to accident, and in

which the most simple and useful combination arose

out of the most complicated circumstances."
   " The results of these labours (he continues)
I  trust, be useful, to the cause of science, by       will,
                                                      prov

ing, that even the most apparently abstract truths

may be connected with applications to the common
wants and purposes of life."

    He. concludes his preface, by remarking, that

" the gratification of the love of knowledge is de

lightful to every refined mind; but a much higher

motive is offered for indulging in when that know
   is
                                                 it,
ledge felt to be practical power, and when that

power may be applied to lessen the miseries, or in

crease the comforts of our fellow-creatures."

       sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                         3

  ITo this work must refer the reader for minute

details of all that relate to the discovery and con
struction and use of the safety lamp, and to that

destructive element the fire-damp, from which it was

Ito serve as a protection. Relative to these subjects,
    shall in this place do little more than introduce

such notices as are likely to interest the general
reader, and draw his attention for full satisfaction to

the original documents.

   " Since the earliest period of the application of
mineral coal* to the purposes of fuel, the explosions

in coal mines from inflammable air, or fire-damp, have
been regarded as the greatest evil occurring in the

working of the mines. The strata of coal lie usually

parallel, or nearly parallel to the surface, at certain

depths beneath it; and this coal, when the pressure of

the superincumbent material is removed, affords in
flammable air, which is disengaged not only in the
common operations of mining, when the coal is broken

and removed, but is likewise permanently evolved,
often in enormous quantities, from fissures in the

strata.

   " When it has accumulated in any part of the gal
lery or chamber of a mine, so as to be mixed in
certain proportions with common air, the presence of

a lighted candle, or lamp, causes it to explode, and to

 destroy, injure, or burn whatever is exposed to its

 violence.

    " To give detailed accounts of the tremendous ac

 cidents owing to this cause, would be merely to mul.
 tiply pictures ofdeath and of human misery. The phe
 nomena are always of the same kind. The miners are

"' Coal was certainly worked in the neighbourhood of Newcastle  in

1245.  B2See Brande's History of Newcastle, vol.  p. 253.

4 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

either immediately destroyed by the explosion, and
thrown with the horses and machinery through the
shaft into the air, the mine becoming as it were an
enormous piece of artillery, from which they are pro
jected; or they are gradually suffocated, and undergo
a more painful death from the carbonic acid and
azote remaining in the mine after the inflammation
of the fire-damp; or what, though it appears the

mildest, is perhaps the most severe fate, they are

burnt or maimed, and often rendered incapable of
labour, and of healthy enjoyment for life.

    " The fire-damp is found in the greatest quantity `
and is most dangerous in the deepest mines, but it
likewise often occurs in superficial excavations; and

I have now a letter of June 8th, 1816, in my pos

session, in which it is stated, that in the very com
mencement of working a coal mine in Shropshire,
several miners were killed, and others severely burnt.

    " Modes of preventing accidents from fire-damp
have been ardently sought for by all persons connected
with coal mines, and it has even occupied the atten
tion of an enlightened government. In consequence
of some explosions which prevented the miners from
working the coal mines at Briangon, in Dauphiny,
the Due de Choiseul, at that time prime minister of
France, recommended the subject to the consider
ation of the Academy of Sciences, and a committee
was appointed who made it for some time the object
of their attention ; but the plan that they proposed
for avoiding the danger was a common mode of ven

ulation.
   " This evil of the fire-damp, though belonging to

all coal mines, had been most severely experienced in
those of Hainault in Flanders, and the infinitely more

       sm I-IUMPHRY DAVY.                             5

important mines in the neighbourhood of Whitehaven
and Newcastle in this country. The number of
dreadful accidents, indeed, which had happened
within the last three or four years in the last-men
tioned districts, particularly that by which ninety-six
persons were destroyed in the Felling colliery, had
so strongly impressed the minds of a number of be.`

nevolent persons belonging to, or connected with,

the coal districts, that it was said to be in their con

templation to bring the subject before parliament,
that by making it a national question it might obtain

Ithat               which  its importance demanded.
                   turned  my attention particularly
   "
consideration                                              .
When first
                                                      to

the subject, which was in August 1815, in conse

quence of a letter from the Rev. Dr. Gray, there

appeared very little hope of finding an eflicacious

remedy. The resources of modern chemical science

had been fully applied in ventilation, in the improved

plans of Mr. Buddle; the comparative lightness of

the fire-damp was well understood; every precaution

was taken to preserve the communications open ; and

the currents of air were promoted or occasioned not

only by furnaces, but likewise by air pumps and

steam apparatus."          .

   He began his successful search after a remedy by
instituting a minute investigation of the composition

of fire-damp, and of its chemical qualities.

He found, as had been before stated by Dr. Henry,

that it was hydrogen or pure inflammable air com

bined with charcoal or carbon ; that compound
kown to chemists by the name of light carburetted

hydrogen.

   He found that it required to be mixed with a very
large quantity of atmospheric air, to produce an ex

                                              B3

6 mzmoms or THE LIFE or

plosion ; that it was the least readily combustible of all
the inflammable gases, or required the highest tem
perature, being neither exploded nor fired by red
hot charcoal, or red-hot iron ; and further, that the
heat it produced when inflamed was less than from

any other inflammable gas, and consequently that
the expansive effect from heat attending its explosion

was also less.

   He found that on mixing one part of carbonic
acid, or fixed air, with seven parts of an explosive
mixture of fire-damp, or one part of azote with six
parts, their powers of exploding were destroyed.

    He found that in exploding a mixture in a glass
tube, of one fourth of an inch in diameter and a

foot long, more than a second was required before
the flame reached from one `end to the other; and

that in tubes of one-seventh of an inch in diameter,

explosive mixtures could not be fired, when they
were opened in the atmosphere; and that metallic

tubes prevented explosion better than glass tubes.

   These were the facts from which the discovery of
the safety lamp was made; and the following was the
process of reasoning which led to the discovery.

   He remarks, -- " In reasoning upon these various
phenomena, it occurred to me, as a considerable heat
was required for the inflammation of the fire-damp,
and as it produced in burning a comparatively small
degree of heat, that the efl'ect of carbonic acid and
azote, and of the surfaces of small tubes in prevent

ing its explosion, depended upon their cooling powers,
upon their lowering the temperature of the exploding
mixture so much that it was no longer suflicient for
its continuous inflammation."

   He proceeds, -- " This idea, which was confirmed

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  7

by various obvious considerations, led to an imme
diate result,--the possibility of constructing alamp in
which the cooling powers of the azote or carbonic

acid formed by the combustion, or the cooling power
of the apertures through which the air entered and
made its exit, should prevent the communication
of explosion."

    Prosecuting this idea, after various trials, he very
soon attained the object of his wishes, and effected

more than the most sanguine imagination could have

anticipated; more, indeed, than could reasonably have
been supposed possible dpriori. And this was the

invention of the safety lamp,--a cage of wire gauze,
which actually made prisoner the flame of the fire
damp, and in its prison consumed it; and whilst it

confined the dangerous explosive flame, it permitted

air to pass and light to escape; and though, from the
combustion of the fire-damp, the cage might become
red-hot, yet still it acted the part of a safety lamp, and
restrained the flaming element within its narrow bounds

simply by presenting a surface of net work, the tem
perature ofwhich the imprisoned flame was not capable
of raising to a height required to explode either the

fire-damp without, or to allow the flame kindled within

Ito pass unextinguished.
      shall not dwell on the minute construction of

the lamp, the manner in which it was improved, and

subjected to the most severe explosive tests, or enter

Ifurther into explanation of its operation, which

hope has been made sufliciently clear to the general

reader.

  I shall further only briefly mention one of its last

improvements, which resulted from a discovery of
my brother, made by him in investigating the

                                                    B `L

8 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

                              SIR HUMPHR.Y. DAVY.

nature of flame. This improvement Was the addition
of a means of giving light in an atmosphere too foul
for vivid combustion and the production of flame,
by introducing a small cage or spiral of platinum
wire just above the wick of the lamp. This had
the marvellous effect of occasioning the combination
of the inflammable air with oxygen, or its combustion

at a temperature only sufliciently high to make the
platinum luminous,--not sufliciently high to have this
effect on the volatile products of the combustion; or,
in other words, produce flame. Thus improved, the
miner with the safety lamp might work in any part
of the mine where life could be supported, and have

the advantage of a steady though feeble light.

" Explanation ofthe Plate representing dgfiérent Forms
  of the Miner's Sqfity Lamp, and of the Apparatus
 jbr giving Light in Explosive Mixtures.

" a represents the single cylinder of wire gauze ;
Ifthe foldings a aa must be very well doubled, and
fastened by wire.  the cylinder be of twilled wire

gauze, the wire should be at least of the thickness
of one-fortieth of an inch, and of iron or copper,

Ifand thirty in the warp, and sixteen or eighteen in
the weft.  of plain wire gauze, the wire should

not be less than one-sixtieth of an inch in thick

ness, and from twenty-eight to thirty both warp and

wo"of.b represents the second top, which fits upon a. `

   " 0 represents a cylinder of brass, in which the

wire gauze is fastened by a screw to prevent it from

being separated from the lamp by any blow. c is.

fitted into a female screw, which receives the male

10              MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or                                          with
screw
       f8 of the lamp: is the lamp furnished
its safe trimmer and safe feeder for oil.

  " A is the wire gauze lamp put together with its

strong wire supports, which may be three or four

receiving the handle.

   " g is a small cage made of wire of platinum, of

one-seventieth or one-eightieth of an inch in thick

ness, fastened to a wire for raising it above the wick,

for giving light in inflammable media containing too

little air   to be explosive.   placing                  in the bottom          of the
            a similar cage for
   " his

lamp, to prevent it from being smoked by the wick.

   " C is a lamp of which the cylinder is copper, of

one-fortieth of an inch in thickness, perforated with

longitudinal apertures of not more than the one

sixteenth of an inch in length, and the one-thirtieth
in breadth. In proportion as the copper is thicker,

the apertures may be increased in size. This form
of a lamp may be proper where such an instrument

is only to be occasionally used; but for the.general

purposes of the collier, wire gauze, from its flexibility

and the ease with which new cylinders are introduced,

is much superior.

   " D is a lamp fitted with a tin plate mirror of half

the circumference of the cylinder, and reaching as

high as the single top, which may be used in strong
currents of fire-damp, to prevent the heat from rising

too high.       forms of the wire gauze lamp are
                In the twilled gauze lamp, less fire
   " All these

equally safe."

damp is burnt, and the radiating and cooling surface

   " That is, according   otoutc, irc"umthsattancthees,    as explained,  and   on the prin
ciple distinctly pointed                                 cylinder should    in   no case he

suffered to be heated above dull redness." Inattention to this, has led to

innumerable errors and misstatements, and, it is to be feared, to accidents.

                                           ...-.` _¢__`--|flafi:..fi`--/---v. ---- -up

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                       11

is greater, and it is therefore fitted for very explosive
mixtures or for explosive currents. The wire gauze

lamp with a double cylinder, or with a reflector, an-`

swe"rTs htheegseanmerealpuprrpinocseip.le
is
                   is,

                            a
                                         a

                                                           is
                                           that the cylinder should

in no case be suffered to be heated above dull red

ness; and this always effected by increasing the

cooling surfaces, or by diminishing the circulation of

the air. .

   " Mr. Newman has applied lens to the exterior of
some of the lamps; which, when strong light

required to be thrown upon particular objects or parts
of the mine, has been found useful."

Some extracts may now be given on the applica
tion of the safety lamp, from communications to my

brother. They are taken from the third section of
his work, prefaced by the remark, that " the evidence

of the use of practical discovery                     of most value
when furnished by practical men                      " and are well
it

            aa
                                                 ; is
adapted to give just ideas of the danger encountered

and overcome, and of the simplicity of the means by

which was` effected.

Extractfrom Letter on the Practical Application ofI
   the Wire Gauze Saje Lamp, fiom John Buddle,

  Esq. to Sir H. Davy.

                      " Walls End Colliery, Newcastle, 1st June, 1816.
   " After having introduced your safety lamp into
general use, in all the collieries under my direction,

where inflammable air prevails, and after using them
daily in every variety of explosive mixture, for up
wards of three months, feel the highest possible

gratification in stating to you that they have answered

to my entire satisfaction.

1Q MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

   " The safety of the lamps is so easily proved by
taking them into any part of a mine charged with
fire-damp, and all the explosive gradations of that

dangerous element are so easily and satisfactorily as
certained by their application, as to strike the minds

of the most prejudiced with the strongest conviction
of their high utility; and our colliers have adopted

them with the greatest eagerness.

   " In the practical application of the lamps, scarcely
any difliculty has occurred. Those of the ordinary

working size, when prepared with common cotton

wick and the Greenland whale oil, burn during the
colliers' sk_ifl or day's work of six hours without re
quiring to be replenished ; and the safety trimmer
answers the purpose of cleaning, raising, and lowering

the wick completely.
   " The only inconvenience experienced arises from

the great quantity of dust, produced in some situations
by working the coal, closing up the meshes of the
wire gauze, and obscuring the light; but the work

men very soon removed this inconvenience by the

app"liOcautrioncoollfiearssmhaalvlebrfuosuhn.d it most convenient to

hang the stationary lamps from small wooden pedes

tals; but, on observing that where the side of the
lamps have been suffered to come in contact with the

Ipedestals the wood is charred to a considerable depth

by the heat of the lamps, have thought it right to
use small iron pedestals instead of the wooden ones.

   " Besides the facilities afforded by this invention to
the working of coal mines abounding in fire-damp,
it has enabled the directors and superintendants to

ascertain, with the utmost precision and expedition,
both the presence, the quantity, and the correct situ
ation of the gas. Instead of creeping inch by inch

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.          13

with a candle, as is usual, along the galleries of a

mine suspected to contain fire-damp, in order to as

certain its presence, we walk firmly on with the safe
lamps, and with the utmost confidence prove the
actual state of the mine. By observing attentively
the several appearances upon the flame of the lamp,

in an examination of this kind, the cause of accidents

  which have happened to the most experienced and

  cautious miners is completely developed ; and this has

` been, in a great measure, matter of mere conjecture.
     " When the discharge of inflammable air is regular,

  and the density of the atmosphere continues uniform,
  the firing point may be judged of and approached

  with safety by a common candle ; but when the dis
  charge of inflammable air is irregular, or the atmos

 phere is in an unsettled state, a degree of uncertainty
  and danger attends the experiment of ascertaining
  the state of a mine. With the safe lamp, however,

  it is reduced to the utmost certainty; the actual

 presence and position of the gas is not only ascer

  tained with the greatest precision, but also every
  alteration of circumstance or position is distinctly

perceived.

   " By placing a lamp near the spot where a quantity
of inflammable air is issuing and mixing with the
circulating current of atmospherical air to the firing

point, it will be seen that very remote causes fre
quently produce pulsations in the atmosphere of the

mine, which occasion the gas to fire at naked lights;
thus showing clearly the instability of the element

with which we have to deal, and the reason why so

many explosions have occurred where lights have not

approached the place where the gas was lodged within
                          '
a considerable distance.

14` MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

   " Objections have been made by some who have
not had experience of the lamps to the delicacy of the
wire gauze, under the apprehension that it may be

Ivery soon impaired by the flame within the cylinder.

Of this, however, have no reason to complain, as

after three months' constant use, the gauze has not,

in the hands of careful workmen, been perceptibly
injured by the action of the flame : but the outer top
gauze of one or two of Newman's making has been
worn through by the friction of the rivet on the
bottom of the swivel, to which the finger ring is
fastened. But this only happened to the lamps used
by the tvastemen, whose business it is to travel daily
in the various avenues of the mines, for the purpose
of keeping the passage for the current of air free
from obstructions ; nothing of the kind has happened

Ito the stationary lamps used by the colliers. In short,
   do not apprehend that the gauze can be injured by
any ordinary cause without being observed in time
sufficient to prevent accidents; and that we have no

danger to apprehend except from the gross negligence

of some heedless individual, or an accident of a very
unusual description occurring to injure the gauze.

  I I" find that have extended my letter to a greater
I Ilength than had intended; but, trust, Sir, that
Iyou will excuse me for having gone so much into

detail, -- as feel peculiar satisfaction in dwelling
upon a subject which is of the utmost importance,
not only to the great cause of humanity, and to the
mining interest of the country, but also to the com

Imercial and manufacturing interests of the United

Kingdom; for am convinced that by the happy
invention of the safe lamp large proportions of the
coal mines of the empire will be rendered available,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  15

   which otherwise might have remained inaccessible,

  at least without an invention of similar utility, which
  could not have been wrought without much loss of

  Ithe mineral, and risk of life and capital.

     " It is not necessary that should enlarge upon the

  national advantages which must necessarily result
   from an invention calculated to prolong our supply

 Iof mineral coal, because think them obvious to
 Ievery reflecting mind; but cannot conclude, with

  out expressing my highest sentiments of admiration

  for those talents which have developed the proper
  ties, and controlled the power, of one of the most
   dangerous elements which human enterprise has
   hitherto had to encounter."

  Extracts fiom Papers written by John Buddle, Esq.
        on the Use of the Wire Gauze Sqfiety Lamp.

      " Having observed in some of the periodical pub
  lications certain remarks on Sir Humphry Davy's
. lamp, which, in my mind, appear to have originated

 Iin motives unconnected with truth and the improve

  ment of science, feel myself called upon to do an
  act of justice to the merit of the invention in a public
  statement of its great utility and extensive use in
  the coal mines of this country.

     " During the last ten months it has been extensively

   employed in all the collieries under my inspection ;
  and it gives me the highest pleasure to be able to

  state that during that time not the slightest accident
  by fire has occurred from its use, though several

  hundreds of lamps are daily employed.
     " In the parts of mines where fire-damp prevails, the

   surveys and inspections are now carried on by the

                       ' Dated May, 1818.

16 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

light of the lamp, without apprehension of danger

from explosion, for experience has shown us that

Iwith the caution of keeping it in proper repair it is

absolutelysafe; and for the truth of this, appeal to

all my professional brethren who have had occasion to
use it without fear of contradiction.
 "
    The  colliers  never  hesitate  a moment  to take  it
`
into any respirable part of a mine, however much it

may be charged with fire-damp; for whenever it
appears that the air, either from discharges of gas or
from casual interruptions of the circulating curre

becomes explosive, only give the collier his Davy (the
`name applied in our mines to the safe lamp), and he

goes to his occupation with the same confidence in

this impure atmosphere that he would do in any

other situation with a candle.
I" There has been much quibbling about the per
fect safety of the wire gauze lamp.    scarcely know`

how the words perfect safety can apply to any in
vention for the preservation of human life; but

when we have seen some hundreds of the wire

gauze lamps in daily use for several months past,
in all varieties of explosive mixture in the most dan

gerous mines of this country, without the slightest

accident occurring, it seems only reasonable to infer,

that they approximate as nearly to perfect safety
as anything of human contrivance or manufacture

can be expected to do.

  " It would, however, be quite unreasonable to ex

pect that accidents are never to happen where the

wire gauze lamps are used; for it must always be
remembered that, setting aside the chance of their

being damaged by some of the casualties incidental
to coal mining, they are to be entrusted to the

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                              17

management of a body of men, amongst whom
negligent individuals will be found, who may use

damaged lamps, or expose the naked flame to the

fire-damp, in spite of the utmost vigilance of the
overmen and inspectors of mines.

   " Instances of great negligence have occurred, for

tunately without any ill consequences, always with
the dismissal of the offender from his employment;
but it would be absurd to condemn the lamp, or

even to quibble upon its want of safety, on this ac

count.

   " In the most extensive coal mines in the north of

England, where the fire-damp prevails to such an
extent as to require the general use of the safety

lamp, it has been found most advantageous to employ
a steady person to take charge of the lamps, and

who is made responsible for keeping. them i11 good

order ; a chamber is allotted to him, in which he keeps
a number of spare lamps, together with oil and cotton

for replenishing the lamps which are in use.
   " The brass collars of the wire gauze cylinders are

secured to the bottoms of the lamps by locks, which

can only be opened by the lamp-keeper; so that the

workmen cannot either by accident or carelessness

expose themselves to danger by separating the wire

gau"zAe ftceyrlinfidneisrshifnrgomthethire   bottoms of  the  lamps.    bring
                                            day's work,  the  colliers

their Dazrys to the lamp-keeper's cabin, who, unlock
ing them, takes the bottoms into his own possession,

and allows the colliers to take the wire gauze cylin

ders home, for the purpose of cleaning them

thoroughly. When the colliers return to their work

the following morning, the lamp-keeper, having

replenished the lamps with oil and cotton, lights

VOL. II.                                    C

"18 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

them, and screws on their tops, and then examines

them with the utmost care before he delivers them

for use; but if the least injury or defect appears in

the gauze, or any other part of the lamp, it is imme

diately set aside to be repaired, and the person to
whom it belongs is supplied with a perfect one.
After having despatched the business of the morning,
the lamp-keeper occupies himself during the day in

walking leisurely through amongst the workmen, car

rying some spare lamps with him, to replace such as

may happen to be extinguished, &c.: after a little prac

tice, the lamp-keepers acquire great dexterity in the

trimming &c. their lamps, and quickly discover the

least defect or injury in the  wire gauze.      the  lamp
                               to observe that
   " It is scarcely necessary

keeper's cabin is always placed in a secure part of the

mine, as near the workings as circumstances will

permit.                        " J. B."

   Extract of a Letter from Mr. Peile to Sir H.

                                    Davy.

                         " Colliery Ofiice, Whitehaven, 6th July, 1816.

  I" take the liberty of adding a further statement

on your invaluable safe lamps in the Whitehaven
collieries, belonging to the Earl of Lonsdale, since the
first application of them in February last. With us

the general use of the lamps, in consequence of the
good state of our ventilation, is confined to leading
workings or trial drifts; and in two of these, lately
going on in one of the pits unusually infected with

fire-damp, and which previously were lighted by

means of steel mills, we applied the lamps with great

                 sm HUMPHRY nxvr.      19

confidence and security. In May last in these drifts

an extraordinary discharge of fire-damp burst from
the pavement of the mine ; and the ventilation being

at that time unavoidably obstructed, the atmosphere

became so charged with fire-damp as to be nearly

throughout an explosive mixture. In this situation

we derived the unspeakable benefit of light from the

lamps, and, notwithstanding the explosive state of the

mixture, with the most perfect safety.

   " In several other places in the collieries the lamps

are used with the same confidence; yet the discharge

of fire-damp being very moderate, they are not much

exp"osIend   to   explosive mixtures.  the least appearance
            all  the workings showing

of fire-damp, the miners are supplied with lamps, and

are particularly cautioned to use them on first en

tering, when beginning to work, where being satisfied

of security they occasionally resort to candles after
wards. This application of the lamp alone is of the

greatest utility, and prevents many slight explosions,

and the miners from being burned, besides superseding

the necessity of depending on the judgment or dis
crimination of any individual, to prove the existence

of the fire-damp in the old method bythe candle flame.
   " From the repeated proofs made with the lamps

we cannot too strongly express our confidence in
their security. By experiment a pint of oil, value

sixpence, will about supply a lamp for six days,
the ordinary time of a man's working ; so that they

Ifare cheaper than candles.

   " my humble testimony can in any degree pro
mote the speedy use of the lamp in other places, it

will give me great pleasure.           " J. Pans."

                 C2

Q0 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Extract of a Letterfront Mr. John Morris, Plas Issa,
   Q7th January, 1817, to John Simmons, Esq., Pad

dington House.

       " Sm,

  I" You will be pleased to recollect, that some time

in the month of June last applied to you, with a
request that you would send me immediately some of

Sir Humphry Davy's safety lamps, in consequence
of an explosion of the fire-damp taking place in one
of your coal mines, by which several of the workmen
were dreadfully burnt and bruised. On the arrival

I Iof the safety lamps, no accurate account of their use

accompanied them; but at length obtained, think,

Ithe " Edinburgh Review," in which was a detail of

some experiments. This read to the colliers, which

gave them some confidence in the lamps, prior to

Iwhich they treated them with silent contempt; and
   found, notwithstanding these interesting details,

that a great doubt existed in their minds. 1, there

fore, was obliged to give the most peremptory orders

to prepare to descend, and assisting in every prepar
ation and execution myselfl But the men's wives

had collected, and made so much noise and lament          `

Iation that it was with some difliculty could keep

them off Having got over this obstacle, and the

men down in the pit, instantaneous destruction was

momentarily anticipated when the least noise was

heard. I, however, had not the least alarm, or the

Ismallest doubt of success, and consequently did all

could to remove their dreadful anxiety. The men
had no sooner descended than the enemy was disco

vered, which, they say, much alarmed them, and they

would have retreated if they could; but finding that

SIR' HUMPHRY DAVY.           21

impossible, took courage, and soon found they had

destroyed the enemy so far: advancing a little fur

ther, they found him again, and again destroyed him,
and so on through the whole work. Thus the first

alarm was got over, when all the knowing men of

the neighbourhood were got collected together to
hear the result, all of whom were astonished and

amazed that so simple a looking instrument should

destroy and defy an enemy heretofore unconquerable.

The same precaution and use of the lamp was gone

through the second day; and when the damp was de

stroyed, we began working, and continued to work

in this way for some weeks.  " GEORGE Moaars."

  IAfter giving these extracts, my brother adds--

   " am possessed of a great number of similar do
cuments respecting the use and application of the

Ilamp; but they are in general so flattering that

might well be suspected of vanity if they were to be

laid before the public."

   The account of the safety lamp alluded to by Mr.
Morris is in the " Edinburgh Review," soon after its

discovery, in the number for February, 1816, written

by a philosopher who deserved the name, in the best

sense of the word, the late Mr. Playfair,-a man who

was distinguished by his private worth, no less than

by variety of attainments in literature and profound

knowledge in the exact sciences, tempered by a mo

Idesty, mildness, and benignity most suitable to the
philosophical character.     cannot refiain from in

dulging myself in quoting his remarks relative to this

discovery; they are the confirming testimonies of

science, as the former extracts were of practical art;

                                           C3 `

Q92 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

they are, moreover, characteristic of the writer, of

the generous and noble sentiments which were ha

bitual to him, and are a fine specimen of his philo

sophical style  of thinking and  twharitti"ngB. acon  could say
                with observing,
   He begins

with truth, at the time when he wrote, that science

could hardly boast of a single experiment which had

served to increase the power, to diminish the suffering,

or to augment the happiness of mankind. ` Jam per

tot annorum spatia, vix unum experimentum adduci

potest quod ad hominum statum levandum et juvan

dum spectat, et philosophiae speculationibus ac dogma

tibus, neve acceptum referri possit.' Were the great

reformer of philosophy now to return to the earth,

he would have the satisfaction to see how vast a

change had been produced by that inethod of philoso

phising from which he had anticipated such wonder

ful results. In the powerful assistance which the

navigator has derived from the united efforts of the

mathematician and astronomer, and in the helps

which so many of the arts are continually receiving

from mechanics and chemistry, he would perceive the

strongest illustration of the maxims of his own philo

sophy, and the clearest proof that he who first recom

mended experiment and induction has a right to stand

in the first rank of the benefactors of the human race.

In contemplating the many fruits that had sprung

from the reformed philosophy, we are not sure that

he would have derived more satisfaction from any

single object than from that which has been just an

nounced (the safety lamp). We certainly know of
none on which the admirer of science and the lover

of mankind have greater reason to congratulate one

another."

      SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                            Q3

   After having given an account of the safety lamp,
and of the train of investigation which terminated in

:_" Ifits discovery, and of its powers and manner of acting,
Mr. Playfair thus proceeds  we might presume

to add anything on the subject, it would be with re

spect to what may be called the scientific merit of

the discovery, and of the experiments which led to

it. The safe lamp is a present from philosophy to
the arts, and to the class of men furthest removed

from the influence of science. The discovery is in

no degree the effect of accident; and chance, which
comes in for so large a share in the credit of human

inventions, has no claims on one which is altogether

the   result of patient and enlightened research.  long
       Thqauthor of this invention has been too
   "

trained in the school of experimental investigation,

not to be well aware that the riches of nature and

the resources of art are not to be found, but in the

diligent and scrupulous examination of the phe

nomena.

   " He began, therefore, with inquiring into the pecu
liar nature of the gaseous substances, by the inflam
mation of which such terrible effects had been

produced. When he perceived the high temperature
required for their inflammation, it immediately oc

curred that on this circumstance some defence against

its violence might, perhaps, be founded, and some
limits set to the rapidity of its communication. By
following this suggestion through a train of laborious,
diflicult, and often dangerous experiments, the ob

stacle which this principle set to the communication

of flame from one portion of the fire-damp to the
other, the elfect of narrow tubes, of perforated plates,

and finally of wire gauze, came all successively in

      c4

24 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

view. Through the whole we find a series of expe
riments judiciously directed to their object, and
steadily pursued, till, without the intervention of any
thing casual, they led to the simple and effectual
contrivance which has just been described.".--And he
adds, --

    " This is exactly such a case as we should choose
to place before Bacon, were he to revisit the earth,
in order to give him, in a small compass, an idea of
the advancement which philosophy has made, since
the time when he had pointed out to her the route
which she ought to pursue. The great use of an im

mediate and constant appeal to experiment cannot

be better evinced than in this example. The result
is as wonderful as it is important. An invisible and
impalpable barrier made effectual against a force
the most violent and irresistible in its operations; and
a power, that in its tremendous effects seemed to
emulate the lightning and the earthquake, confined
within a narrow space, and shut up in a net of the
most slender texture,-- are facts which must excite a
degree of wonder and astonishment, from which nei
ther ignorance nor wisdom can defend the beholder.
When to this we add the beneficial consequences
and the saving of the lives of men, and consider that
the effects are to remain as long as coal conti
nues to be dug from the bowels of the earth, it may
fairly be said that there is hardly in the whole com
pass of art or science a single invention of which one

would rather wish to be the author. It is little that

the highest praise, and that even the voice of national
gratitude, when most strongly expressed, can add to
the happiness of one who is conscious of having done
such a service to his fellow men. We hope, however,

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  25

that some distinguished mark of such gratitude will      .

not be wanting to a person who, by disarming one

of the most powerful agents of destruction, has so
well merited a civic crown. In this, indeed, the ho

nour of the giver is more interested than the receiver.
The latter may not admit of much increase; but it

nevertheless becomes those who administer the affairs

of a free people, to show themselves grateful for

benefits conferred, even. on the humblest and most

obscure of their fellow citizens."

   The ardour with which my brother pursued science
was strongly shown in the rapidity of his labours re

lating to this great discovery. In August, 1815, he

states, as has been already mentioned, that his atten

tion was first particularly directed to the subject of
fire-damp. He was then in the Highlands of Scot
land on a shooting excursion. On his way back he

stopped at Newcastle, and made minute inquiries

into the circumstances of the mines in connec
tion with the destructive agent. At his request,
specimens of fire-damp were forwarded to him in
London. He then entered, in the laboratory, on the
experimental investigation. On the 9th of November
the results of his inquiry were read to the Royal
Society, and the principle of the safe lamp was
announced; and the lamp itself was perfected in

December.

   Such a successful result and triumph of experi

mental science over difliculties so formidable, and

apparently unconquerable, would have more than sa

tisfied ordinary minds; his mind was rather stimu
lated by it to fresh exertion : and, without stop, he
engaged in a new series of labours relating to the
nature of flame, which he prosecuted with the same

26 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

zeal, and made discoveries, not indeed so important

to society as the former, but almost as curious, un

Iexpected, and extraordinary, and hardly less import

ant in relation to science. Of these labours shall

now give some account, extracted from the second
section of his work, last referred to, and in the order

observed by him.

   In January, 1816, a paper of his was read to the

Royal Society, and published in its Transactions for
the same year, entitled " Further Experiments on

the Combustion of Explosive Mixtures, confined by
Wire Gauze, with some Observations on Flame ;" in

which, after investigating the properties of wire gauze

in relation to flame, he applied this texture to investi
gate the nature of flame itself. He proves that
flame, " in all cases, must be considered as a com

bustion of an  aeixrp; lo"sivtheatmi"xtuthree  of inflammable gas,
or vapour and
                                               heat communicated

by flame must depend upon its mass; and that the

real temperature of visible flame              is,  perhaps, as high

as any we are acquainted with." This last proposi
                             mention of an experiment of
tion he illustratedis
                         by
Mr. Tennant, who used to fuse very delicate fila
                                               aa
ment of platinum in the flame of common candle,

a  metal which       infusible in the strongest smelt

ing furnace; and by the fact, that stream of air may
                                               aa
be heated so high as to make metallic body ex

posed to white-hot, and yet not be itself luminous.it

   His next paper dated July, 1816, and was pubis
lished in the Journal of Science and the Arts for
that quarter, under the name of " Some new Views

and Experiments respecting Flame."is                a

  It my wish, in composing this work, to excite

taste in young persons for physical research; and the

                               SIR I.IUMPHRY DAVY.

   study of nature in the only way in which it is de
  lightful--not in sedentary reading, and the loading of
  the memory with information, before a power of di
   gesting or assimilating such information is acquired;
   but in active exertion and scrutiny, in which the senses
   are sharpened by the intellect, and the mind is fur
   nished with materials for contemplation by the senses,
   and there is a constant advance made in true and use
  ful knowledge.

      The paper, the title of which has just been given,

  is well adapted to aid in promoting such a taste. A

  difference merely of the appearance of flame of coal
  gas, burning in a jet in the open air, and in the wire
   gauze safe lamp, mixed with common air, forming an
  explosive mixture (in the former bright and strong,
   in the latter pale and feeble), is the immediate object
  of inquiry. This problem, investigated experiment
  ally, leads to a number of new and unexpected re
  sults; and these results to various new and specu
   lative views, showing in a remarkable manner the
. richness of nature, the importance of minute atten
   tion to phenomena, and the extraordinary way in
   which they are linked together.

    It was first conjectured that the feebleness of the

  flame of the explosive mixture burning in the wire

   gauze lamp might be owing to imperfect combus
   tion ; but this was disproved by experiment.

      " In reflecting on the circumstances of the two

  Ispecies of combustion (my brother remarks), was

  led to imagine that the cause of the superiority of the
  light of the stream of coal gas might be owing to the
  decomposition of a part of the gas towards the interior
  of the flame, where. the air was in smallest quantity,
  and the deposition of solid charcoal, which, first by

28 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

its ignition, and afterwards by its combustion, in

creased in a high degree the intensity of the light;
anda few experiments soon convinced me that this

Iwas the true solution of the problem.

    " held a piece of wire gauze, of about 900 aper
tures to the square inch, over a stream of coal gas

issuing from a small pipe, and inflamed the gas above
the wire gauze, which was almost in contact with the
orifice of the pipe, when it burned with its usual
bright light. On raising the wire gauze, so as to
cause the gas to be mixed with more air before it in

flamed, the lightbecame feebler ; and at a certain dis
tance the flame assumed the precise character of that

of an explosive mixture, burning within the lamp;

but though the light was so feeble in this last case,
the heat was greater than when the light was much

more vivid, and a piece of platinum held in this feeble

blue flame became instantly white-hot.
   " On reversing the experiment by inflaming a

stream of coal gas, and passing a piece of wire gauze
gradually from the summit of the flame to the orifice
of the pipe, the result was still more instructive ; for
it was found that the apex of the flame, intercepted
by the wire gauze, afforded no solid charcoal; but

in passing it downwards, solid charcoal was given of

in considerable quantities, and prevented from burn

ing by the cooling agency of the wire gauze; and
at the bottom of the flame, where the gas burnt blue

in its immediate contact with the atmosphere, char-`
coal ceased to be deposited in visible quantities.

   " This principle of the increase of the brilliancy
and density of flame, by the production and ignition
of solid matter, appears to admit of many applica

tions.

sra HUMPHRY nxvv.                                                                    Q9

   " First, It explains readily the appearances of the

different parts of the flames of burning bodies, and of
flame urged by the blow-pipe; the point of the inner

blue flame, where the heat is greatest, is the point
where the whole of the charcoal is burnt in its gaseous

combinations without previous deposition.

   " Secondly, It explains the intensity of the light

of thoseflames in which fired solid matter is produced
`in combustion; such as that of the flame of phos
phorus, and of zinc in oxygen, &c., and of potassium

in chlorine: and the feebleness of the light of

those flames in which gaseous and volatile matter
alone is produced; such as those of hydrogen, and

sulphur in oxygen, phosphorus in chlorine, &c.

   " Thirdly, It offers means of increasing the light
of burning substances. Thus, the intensity of the

light of burning sulphur, carbonic oxide, &c. is won

derfully increased by throwing into them oxide of

zinc, or by placing in them very fine amianthus or

metallic gauze.

  " Fourthly, It leads to deductions respecting the

chemical nature of bodies, and various phenomena
of their decomposition. Thus ether burns with a

flame which seems to indicate the presence of ole

fiant gas in that substance. Alcohol burns with a
flame similar to that of a mixture of carbonic oxide

a
                                                  a
                                                             is,

                                                                it a

                                                                                 is
and hydrogen ; so that the first probably, binary

compound of olefiant gas and water, and the second of

carbonic oxide and hydrogen.                                                         in
   " When cuprane, or protochloride ofcopper,

troduced into the flame of candle or lamp, affords

peculiar, dense, and brilliant red light, tinged with

green and blue towards the edges, which seems to

depend upon the chlorine being separated from the

 SO MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

 copper by the hydrogen, and the ignition and com
 bustion of the solid copper and charcoal.

    " Similar explanations may be given of the phe
 nomena presented by the action of other combinations
 of chlorine on flame ; and it is probable in many of
 those cases, when the colour of flame is changed by
 the introduction of incombustible compounds, that

 the effect depends upon the production and subse
 quent ignition or combustion of inflammable matter
 from them. Thus, the rose-coloured light given to
 flame by the compounds ofstrontium and calcium, and
the yellow colour given by those of barium, and the
green by those of boron, may depend upon a tempo
 rary production of these bases by the inflammable
matter of the flame.

    " Whenever a flame is remarkably brilliant and

dense, it may be always concluded that some solid

matter is produced in it; on the contrary, when a

flame is extremely feeble and transparent, it may be

inferred that no solid matter is formed. Thus, none of
the volatile combinations of sulphur burn with a flame
in the slightest degree opaque, and consequently there
is no reason from the phenomena of its flame to sus
pect the existence of any fixed basis in sulphur.

   " Fifthly, These views will probably offer illustrations
of electrical light. The voltaic arc of flame from the
great battery differs in colour and intensity according
as the substances employed in the circuit are differ
ent, and is infinitely more brilliant and dense with
charcoal than with any other substance. May not
this depend upon particles of the substances separated
by the electrical attractions?

    " Sixthly, The heat of flames may be actually dimin
ished by increasing their light (at least the heat com

           sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                          31

municable to other matter), and vice versa. The

Iflame from combustion, which produces the most in

tense heat among those have examined, is that ofa
`mixture of oxygen and hydrogen in slight excess, com

pressed in a blow-pipe apparatus, and inflamed from

a tube having a very small aperture. This flame is

hardly visible in bright daylight, yet it instantly fuses

very refractory bodies; and the light from solid mat

ters ignited in it is so vivid as to be painful to the

eye."      additional  researches  on flame "  were  com
   " Some

municated by him to the Royal Society in January,
1817, and published in the " Philosophical Trans

actions" for the same year. The whole of the dis
sertation is an instructive one, and well deserving of

`being studied, as an example of patient, minute, and

correct scientific investigation, and for the curious

knowledge which it imparts, though none of the re
sults are of a brilliant character.

   He first proves, in opposition to the statement of
M. de Grotthus, that the rarefaction of inflammable

gases by itself does not diminish their combustibility;
and that the rarefaction produced by removal of pres

sure diminishes combustibility only by its cooling in

fluence; and that accordingly the less high the

temperature required by a gas for its inflammation,

so much the more it may be rarefied without being
deprived of its power of inflaming. Agreeably to this,

from his experiments it appears that light carburetted

hydrogen, or pure fire-damp, is most readily pre

vented by expansion from kindling, and phosphuretted

hydrogen least so; the one burning was extinguished

when the atmospheric pressure was diminished less

than a fourth, whilst the other flashed when admitted

32 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

in the most complete vacuum which could be formed
by an air pump of excellent construction.

   He  next proves,  also in opposition   to  the assertion
of M.  de Grotthus,  " that expansion    by   heat, instead

of diminishing the combustibility of gases, on the

acotunrtera;ry",  enables them to explode at a lower temper

                  and, in opposition to the opinion of Dr.

Higgins and M. Berthollet, that it is not compression

(when compression is used or occurs) which occasions
the combinations of gases, but the heat evolved by

the compression.

Thirdly, he shows that the power of gases to pre

vent explosion, when added to an explosive mixture,

is not according to their densities or their capacities

for heat, but is in relation to their cooling power on

the mixture; and that this is different from the power

which they possess of abstracting heat from solid sur

faces; and whatever be its cause, it is exercised

similarly on all kinds of explosive mixtures: those

mixtures which require least heat for their combustion

require a proportionally large quantity of the different
gases to prevent combustion. " There is (he adds)
a very simple experiment, which demonstrates in an

elegant manner this general principle. Into a long

bottle with a narrow neck, introduce a lighted taper;

it will be extinguished before it reaches the bottom

of the neck : then introduce a small tube containing

zinc and diluted sulphuric acid, and at the aperture

of which the hydrogen is inflamed; the hydrogen

will be found to burn in whatever part of the bottle

the tube is placed : after the hydrogen is extin

guished, introduce lighted sulphur ; this will burn

for some time, and after its extinction phosphorus

will be as luminous as in the air; and if heated in the

              SIR HUMPH RY D AVY.

bottle will produce a pale yellow flame of consider

able density." And immediately afterhe announces
the important fact, that though the addition of a gas

to an inflammable mixture may prevent its inflamma

tion, yet it may not prevent combination; the gases
may combine slowly without the production of light.
He adds some conjectures respecting the temperature
of flames, which he supposes to be very different in

different instances of chemical combination; and he

adduces facts which he had ascertained by experi
ment in support of this idea: thus he found " that a

filament of platinum was fused by a flame of cyanogen
in the air, which was not fused by a similar flame of

hydrogen;"` indicating that gaseous carbon aflbrds

a more intense heat than hydrogen in combustion.

   He concludes this paper with some general re

marks and practical applications, chiefly in reference
to the safety lamp, the principle of which, as already

given, he confirms and illustrates by facts of the

greatest simplicity and most conclusive kind.

   These researches on flame were speedily followed

by others developing a very curious efl'ect, namely,

ignition without inflammation; indeed, by the same

method that he imprisoned flame in the safety lamp
of wire gauze, he proceeded further, and removed
the flame entirely. The paper giving an account of

`this singular discovery is dated January, 1817, and
Iwas published in the same volume of the "Philo
sophical Transactions" as the last.    shall reprint

the whole of  it,                      cannot fail to in

                           it
              believing that       it

terest, and considering as well adapted as the for

mer (that of July, 1816), which has been given almost
entire, to serve as model of research, and to kindle
              a

a  love of original inquiry.

   vor.. 11.                   1)

3t MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

" Some new `E.rperiments and Observations on the

      Combustion of Gaseous Mixtures, <%~c.

  I" In the last paper have described the phenomena
Iof the slow combustion of hydrogen and olefiant gas

without flame. In the same paper have shown that

the   temperature of flame is infinitely higher    than
that  necessary for the ignition of solid bodies.
                                                     It

appeared to me, therefore, probable, that in certain
combinations of gaseous bodies,_for instance, those

above referred to,--when the increase of temperature

was not suflicient to render the gaseous matters them

selves luminous, yet still it might be adequate to
                                        I had devised
Iignite solid matters exposed to them.
                                        had intended
several experiments on this subject.

to expose fine wires to oxygen and olefiant gas, and

Ito oxygen and hydrogen, during their slow combin

ation under different circumstances, when was acci

dentally led to the knowledge of the fact, and at the

same time to the discovery of a new and curious

 Iphenomenon.

     " was making experiments on the increase of the
 limits of the combustibility of gaseous mixtures of

 Icoal gas and air by increase of temperature. For this

 purpose introduced a small wire gauze safe lamp

 with some fine wire of platinum fixed above the flame,

 into a combustible mixture containing the maximum

 of coal gas; and when the inflammation had taken

 Iplace in the wire gauze cylinder threw in more

 coal gas, expecting that the heat acquired by the
 mixed gas in passing through the wire gauze would
` prevent the excess from extinguishing the flame. The
 flame continued for two or three seconds after the

 coal gas was introduced; and when it was extin

               sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                       35

guished, that part of the wire of platinum which had
been hottest remained ignited, and continued so for

many minutes; and when it was removed into a dark
room, it was evident that there was no flame in the

Icyl"indIterw. as immediately obvious that this was the re

sult which had hoped to attain by other methods,

and that the oxygen and coal gas in contact with the

hot wire combined without flame, and. yet produced

Iheat enough to preserve the wire ignited, and to keep
up their own combustion.      proved the truth of this

conclusion by making a similar mixture, heating a

fine wire of platinum, and introducing it into the mix

ture. It immediately became ignited nearly to white
ness, as if it had been itself in actual combustion, and

continued glowing for a long while; and when it was
extinguished, the inflammability of the mixture was

found  entirely destroyed.  below ignition  only was  ne
       temperature much
  "A

cessary for producing this curious phenomenon ; and

the wire was repeatedly taken out and cooled in the

atmosphere, till it ceased to be visibly red, and yet

when admitted  again it instantly became red-hot.
               phenomena were produced with mix
   " The same

tures of olefiant gas and air, carbonic oxide, prussic .

Igas, and hydrogen, and in the last case with a rapid

production of water; and the degree of heat, found,

could be regulated by the thickness of the wire. The

wire, when. of the same thickness, became more

ignited in hydrogen than in mixtures of olefiant gas,
and more in mixtures of olefiant gas than in those of
gaseous oxide of carbon.

   "When the wire was very fine, about the one

eightieth of an inch in diameter, its heat increased in

                          DQ

86 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

very combustible mixtures, so as to explode them.
The same wire, in less combustible mixtures, only

continued bright red or dull red, according to the na

ture of the mixture.
   " In mixtures not explosive by flame within certain

limits, these curious phenomena took place, whether

the air or the inflammable gas was in excess.
" The same circumstance occurred with certain
Iinflammable vapours.                                     `
                       have tried those of ether,

alcohol, oil of turpentine, and naptha. There cannot

be a better mode of illustrating the fact than by

an experiment on the vapour of ether or of alcohol,

which any person may make in a minute. Let a

drop of ether be thrown into a cold glass, or a drop
of alcohol into a warm one. Let a few coils of wire

of platinum, of the one-sixtieth or one-seventieth part
of an inch, be heated at a hot poker or a candle, and

let it be brought into the glass; it will in some part
of the glass become glowing, almost white-hot, and
will continue so as long as a suflicient quantity of va
pour and of air remain in the glass.
. " When the experiment on the slow combustion
of ether is made in the dark, a pale phosphorescent
light is perceived above the wire, which of course is

. m`ost distinct when thewire comes to be ignited.
  This.appearance is connected with the formation of
  a peculiar acrid volatile substance, possessed of acid

properties.

   " The chemical changes in general produced by

slow combustion appear worthy.of investigation. A

wire of platinum introduced under the usual circum

stances into a mixture of prussic gas (cyanogen) and
oxygen in excess, became ignited to whiteness, and

the yellow vapours of nitrous acid were observed in

                    srn HUMPHRY DAVY.                 37

the mixture. And in a mixture of olefiant gas, non
explosive from the excess of inflammable gas, much

carbonic oxide was formed.

  I" have tried to produce these phenomena with
Ivarious metals, but have succeeded only with pla

tinum and palladium; with copper, silver, iron, gold,

and zinc,` the effect is not produced. Platinum and

palladium have low conducting powers, and small

capacities for heat, compared with other metals, and
`these seem to be the principal causes of their pro

ducing, continuing, and rendering sensible these slow

combustions.

   I" have tried some earthy substances, which are

bad conductors of heat; but their capacities `and

powers of radiating heat appear to interfere. A thin

film of carbonaceous matter entirely destroys the

igniting power of platinum, and a slight coating of

 sulphuret deprives palladium of this property, which

must principally depend upon their increasing the
pow"eTr hoinf
               the metals to radiate   heat.    form  admits of

                laminae of metals,    if their

a free circulation of air, answer as well as fine wires ;

and a large surface of platinum may be made red
hot in the vapour of ether, or in a combustible mix
     of coal
Iture          gas  and air.     the  connection      of these
   "    need   not   dwell upon

Ifacts respecting slow combustion with the other facts

   have described in the history of flame. Many

theoretical views will arise from this connection, and
I.hints for new researches, which hope to be able to
Ipursue.
               shall now conclude by apractical appli

cation. By hanging some coils of fine wire of pla

tinum, or a fine sheet of platinum or palladium, above

                    D3

88 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

 the wick of the lamp, in the wire-gauze cylinder,

  the coal miner, there is every reason to believe, will

  be supplied with light in mixtures of fire-damp no

  longer explosive; and should his flame be extinguished
  by the quantity of fire-damp, the glow of the metal
  will continue to guide him; and by placing the lamps
  in different parts of the gallery, the relative bright
  ness of the wire will show the state of the atmos
  phere in these parts. Nor can there be any danger

  with respect to respiration whenever the wire con
` `tinues ignited; for even this phenomenon ceases when

  the foul air forms about two-fifths of the volume of

Ithe atmosphere.
   " introduced into a wire-gauze safe lamp a small
cage made of fine wire of platinum, of the one-seven
tieth of .an inch in thickness; and fixedit bymeans of

Ia thick wire of platinum, about two inches above the
wick, which was lighted.  placed the whole appa

ratus in a large receiver, in which, by means of a

gas holder, the air could be contaminated to any ex
tent with coal gas. As soon as there was a slight
admixture of coal gas, the platinum became ignited;

the ignition continued to increase till the flame of

the wick was extinguished, and till the whole cylinder

became filled with flame; it then diminished, when

the quantity of coal gas was increased, so as to ex

tinguish the flame. At the moment of the extinction

the cage of platinum became white-hot, and pre

   sented a most brilliant light. By increasing the

  quantity of the coal gas still further, the ignition of

  the platinum became less vivid: when its light was

` barely sensible, small quantities of air were admitted ;

its heat speedily increased ; and by regulating the ad
mission of coal gas and air, it again became white

sna HUMPHRY DAVY.           39

hot, and soon after lighted the flame in the cylinder,
which, as usual, by the addition of more atmospherical

air, rekindled the flame of the wick.
   " This experiment has been very often repeated, and

always with the same results. When the wire for the
support of the cage, whether of platinum, silver, or

copper, was very thick, it retained suflicient heat to

enable the fine platinum wire to rekindle in a proper

mixture half a minute after its light had been en

tirely destroyed by an atmosphere ofpure coal gas;

and by increasing its thickness, the period might be

made still longer.                                                                                      `
   " The phenomenon
                     of the ignition of the platinum

takes place feebly in a mixture consisting of two of

air and one of coal gas, and brilliantly in a mixture

consisting of three of air and one of coal gas: the

greater the quantity of heat produced, the greater may

be the quantity of the coal gas; so that a large tissue

Ifof wire will burn in a more inflammable mixture than
one made red-hot.       a mixture of three parts of

air and one of fire-damp be introduced into a bottle,

and inflamed at its point of contact with the atmo

Ifsphere, it will not explode, but will burn like a pure
inflammable substance.      a fine wire of platinum,

coiled at its end, be slowly passed through the flame,

it will continue ignited in the body of the mixture;

and the same gaseous matter will be found to be in

flammable, and to support combustion.

   " There is every reason to hope that the same phe
nomena will occur with the cage of platinum in the

fire-damp as those which have been described in its

operation on mixtures of coal gas. In trying expe

riments in fire-damp, the greatest care must be taken

                        D4

40 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

that nofilament, or wire of platinum, protrudes on the

exterior of the lamp, jbr this would fire erternally an

explosive mixture. However small the mass of pla
tinum which kindles an explosive mixture in the safe

lamp, the result is the same as when large masses are

used: the force of the explosion is directed to, and
the flame arrested by, the whole of the perforated

tissue.

   " When a large cage of wire of platinum is intro

duced into a very small safe lamp, even explosive

mixtures of fire-damp are burnt without flame; and

by placing any cage of platinum in the bottom of the

lamp round the wick, the wire is prevented from

being smoked."             `

The discovery announced in this paper was soon
followed by that of M. Doebereiner of the property

possessed by platinum, in a very finely divided state,

of becoming ignited at ordinary temperatures in a

mixture of oxygen and hydrogen; and so strongly

ignited, owing to the rapidity of combination which it

effected, as to inflame the mixture. And this fact,

further investigated, soon led to a large number of
other curious results relative to the influence of

metals in producing chemical combinations, hardly

less extraordinary and interesting than the power
exhibited in the voltaic pile of the same bodies in

different forms and arrangements, of separating the
elements of compounds or occasioning decomposition.

   To return to the safety lamp.--After pointing out,
in the fourth and last section of his work, various

precautions in different circumstances to ensure the
perfect security of the lamp, deduced from his re

searches on flame, and for improving its light, and
after having described various applications of it as

       sm HUMPH RY DAVY.                        44

indicated in the title page, he concludes with ob

Iser"vinWgha: --teve. r may be the fate of the speculative part

of this inquiry, have no anxiety as to the practical

results, or as to the unimpassioned and permanent

judgment of the public on the manner in which they
have been developed and communicated; and no fear
that an invention for the preservation of human life,
and the diminution of human misery, will be neglected
or forgotten by posterity. When the duties of men

coincide with their interests, they are usually per
`formed with alacrity: the progress of civilisation en
sures the existence of all real improvements; and

however high the gratification of possessing the good
opinion of society, there is a still more exalted
pleasure in the consciousness of having laboured to

be useful."

    These remarks were dictated by strong feeling,
arising from a perfect knowledge of what he had ef
fected, and from a perfect confidence of the efliciency

of his invention. In no part of his work, which he
 designed as a permanent record of his labours in the

cause, does he make any allusion to various attempts

unworthily engaged in to detract from the merit and
originality of his invention. That they annoyed him

at the moment, was certain; he must have been more

than human had he been indifferent to them; but,

fortunately, they had no lasting influence on his
mind. He thus expresses himself, in relation to them,
in some lines which were hastily written in a note

book:  ' '* " Though good

       Has been repaid with evil, and a gift

       Of science and humanity received
       With stern ingratitude ; yet have I not

4_Q nanmorns or THE LIFE or

          Resented, or relax'd in labours high

          For these my enemies: and if a chill

          ' 'IOt fwinasdigbuntattiorannshiatsoroyp."pres*s'd my mind,

  IIn further illustration, shall insert a letter already

published by Dr. Paris, in which the principal at
tempt to deprive him of the honour of the discovery
is represented in its true light.

                                                         a

              " To J. G. Lambton, Esq.

                                    " Queen Square, Bath, October 29. 1816.

   " MY DEAR Sm,
" The severe indisposition of my wife has altered

Imy plans. Your letter slowly followed me here.
" Mr;     is one of the persons who, after had

advanced a principle of security for a lamp, came
Iupon the ground to endeavour to jockey me.
                                                                                                                was
Inot looking to a prize; merely came forward to

show an animal, the breed of which might be useful,

when Mr.  , Dr.  , &c. brought their sorry

jades, which had never before been seen or heard

Iof, to kick at my blood mare.
   " never heard a word ofGeorge Stephenson and
his lamps till six weeks after my principle of security
had been published; and the general impression of

Ithe scientific men in London, which is confirmed by
what heard at Newcastle,a that Stephenson had
                                           : is,

                                             it

                                    if is
                                                                                                            ,-
some loose idea floating in his mind which he had

unsuccessfully attempted to put in practice till after

my labours were made known then he made some

thing like safe lamp, except that  not sqfé for

the apertures below are four times, and those above

twenty times too large.. But even Stephenson's

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  43

plans had not been posterior to my principles, still

there is no analogy between his glass exploding

machine and my metallic tissue, permeable to light
and air and impermeable to flame.

  I" am very glad that you attended the meeting;

your conduct at no very distant period will be con
trasted with that of some great coal proprietors, who
find reasons for their indifference as to a benefit con

ferred upon them, in insinuations respecting the
claims of Dr. Clanny, Mr. Stephenson, and others.

   " When`men resolve to be ungrateful, it is natural
that they should be illiberal; and illiberality often

Ihardens into malignity.

   " shall receive any present of plate under your
auspices, and those of the committee over which you

preside, with peculiar satisfaction. It will prove to

me that my labours have not been disregarded by

Imen of whose good opinion am proud.
  I" hope you will not blame me for not taking any

I`notice of the attacks of my enemies in the North.

have no desire to go out of my way to crush gnats
that buzz at a distance, and do not bite me, or to

quarrel with persons who shoot arrows at the moon,
and believe that because they have for a moment

Iintercepted a portion of her light they have hit

their mark. am sensible to the circumstances under

Iwhich you attended the meeting.

    " offer you my sincere congratulations and ardent

wishes that you may enjoy all possible happiness.

                                        " Believe me, &c.
                                                    " H. Davy.

   He did not fail to distinguish between the carping .
of a small number of disingenuous persons, whose

44 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE `OF

low interests were their stumbling block, and the ap
proval with admiration and gratitude of all those
whose approbation he valued.

   He observes :-- " It would be expecting too much

from human nature to suppose that there should be
no instances of obstinacy in workmen, and of pre
judice or indifference in coal owners ; but these

Iinstances have been solitary ones; and if delicacy did

not forbid me, might appeal to the letters of thanks
of various individuals, and of the united colliers of
Whitehaven; to the vote of thanks of the coal trade
of the North of England, of the grand jury of
Durham, of the Chamber of Commerce at Mons;

and, above all, to the present made to me at New

castle in so flattering a manner, October 11. 1817."

   This present was a service of plate of the value of
about 1200!. on the centre piece of which was the
following inscription : --

                           " NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE,     1 817.

" THIS snnvrou or PLATE was PRESENTED
T0 sm numrnnv navy BY THE sunsonnmas,
as A router: or onxrrrunn ron ms INVALUABLE mvuurrou
or THE snrnrv LAMP."

Underneath were the subscribers' names :

     " The Duke of Northumberland.
         The Lord Bishop of Durham.

          The Dean and Chapter of Durham.
           Sir Ralph Noel, Bart.
         John Geo. Lambton, Esq., M.P.
         Thomas H. Graham, Esq.
          George Silvertop, Esq.
           Dixon Brown, Esq.
         Matthew Russell, Esq. Walls End Colliery.
          Owners of Hebbum Colliery.
         Owners of Percy Main Colliery.
          Owners of Heston Colliery.

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                     46

Owners of Jarrow Colliery.

Samuel Williams, Esq. and Co., Cox Lodge Colliery.
Owners of Fewden Colliery.
Owners of .Manor Walls End Colliery.
Owners of Townley Main Colliery.

Owners of Sheriff Hill Colliery.

Owners of Boswich Main Colliery.
Owners of Benwell Colliery.
Owners of Pontop Colliery.
Wm. M. Pitt, Esq., Tanfield Moor Colliery.

Christopher Blackett, Esq., Wylom Colliery.
Owners of Welbottle Colliery.

Owners of Hartley Colliery.

J.Owners of Glowick Colliery.

Morton Davidson, Esq., Beamish Colliery.
John George Lambton, Esq., M. P., Lambton Colliery
Lady Frances Anne Vane Tempest, Eden Main Colliery.
Warren Maude Lamb, Esq.

J.Mr. William Stabant, jun., Talfield Colliery.

   D. Nesham, Esq. and Co., Nesham Main Colliery.
Matthew Russell and Co., Waslington New Colliery.
John Carr, Esq., Oxetone Colliery.
Mr. John Humble, Leefield Colliery."

   The flattering manner in which this mark of grate
ful feeling was shown at Newcastle, alluded to in
the above passage, requires to be noticed : it was at

a public dinner,` to which he was invited by the as
sociated coal owners, on his return from Scotland, in

September, 1817. Mr. Lambton (now Earl of Dur

ham), who presided on the occasion, thus addressed

him :--
   " Sir Humphry,---- It now becomes my duty to

fulfil the object of the meeting, in presenting to you
this service of plate, from the coal owners of the
Tyne and Wear, as a testimony of their gratitude

for the services you have rendered to them and to

humanity.
   " Your brilliant genius, which has been so long

employed in an unparalleled manner, in extending

the boundaries of chemical knowledge, never ac

46 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

complished a higher object nor obtained a nobler

triumph.
    " You had to contend with an element of destruc

tion which seemed uncontrollable by human power;
which not only rendered the property of the coal
owner insecure, but kept him in perpetual alarm for
the safety of the intrepid miner in his service, and

often exhibited to him the most appalling scenes of

death and heart-sickening misery.

   " You have increased the value of an important
branch of productive industry; and, what is of infi

nitely more importance, you have contributed to pre
serve the lives and persons of multitudes of your
fellow-creatures.

   " It is now nearly two years that your safety lamp

has been used by hundreds of miners, in the most
dangerous recesses of the earth, and under the most

Itrying circumstances. Not a single failure has oc

curred ; its absolute security is demonstrated. have,

indeed, deeply to lament more than one catastrophe,
produced by foolhardiness and ignorance, in neglect
ing to use the safeguard you have supplied; but

these dreadful accidents, even, if possible, exalt its

Ifimportance.
   " your fame had needed any thing to make it
immortal, this discovery alone would have carried it
down to future ages, and connected it with benefits
and blessings.

   " Receive, Sir Humphry, this permanent memo
rial of our profound respect and high admiration ; a
testimony, we trust, equally honourable to you and to
us. We hope you will have as much pleasure in re
ceiving as we feel in offering it. Long may you live

to use it; long may you live to pursue your splendid

        srn HUMPHRY DAVY.                                47

career  of scientific discovery,  and  wtoorgldiv!e"new  claims
to the  gratitude and praise of   the

He replied: --

I" Gentlemen, feel it impossible to reply, in an

appropriate manner, to the very eloquent and flatter
ing address of your distinguished chairman. Elo
quence, or even accuracy of language, is incompa

tible with strong feeling; and on an occasion like the

present, you will give me credit for no small degree
of emotion.

  I" have been informed that my labours have been

useful to an important branch of human industry

connected with our arts, our manufactures, com

merce, and national wealth. To learn this from such

practical authority, is the highest gratification to a

person whose ardent desire has always been to apply
science to purposes of utility.

   " It has been also stated, that the invention which

you are this day so highly honouring has been sub
servient to the preservation of the lives and persons

of a most useful and laborious class of men: this,

coming from your own knowledge, founded upon
such ample experience, affords me a pleasure still
more exalted ; for the highest ambition ofmy life has
been to deserve the name of a friend to humanity.

   " To crown all, you have, as it were, embodied

these sentiments in a permanent and magnificent me
Imorial of your good opinion.
                                       can make only im

perfect and inadequate efforts to thank you.

   " Under all circumstances of my future life, the
recollection of this day will warm my heart; and
this noble expression of your kindness will awaken
my gratitude to the latest moment of my existence."

4_8 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE 01-`

   And on sitting down his health having been drunk
with " three times three," he spoke as follows : --

  " Gentlemen, I am overpowered by these reit

erated proofs of your approbation. You have over

rated my merits. My success in your cause must be

attributed to my having followed the path of experi-.

Iment and induction discovered by philosophers who

have preceded me: willingly would divide your
plaudits with other men ofscience, and claim much

for the general glory of scientific discovery in a long

Icourse of ages.  might dwell at some length upon

   " Gentlemen,'

the great increase of wealth and power to the coun
try within the last half century, by scientific inven

tion, which never could have existed without coal

mines: I shall refer only to the improvement in the

potteries, to the steam-engine, and to the discovery
of the gas lights.

   " What an immense impulse has the steam-engine
given to the arts and manufactures ! How much has

it diminished labour, and increased the real strength

of the country, far beyond a mere increase of popu
lation ! By giving facilities to a number of other in

ventions, it has produced even a moral effect, in
rendering capital necessary for the perfection of

labour, credit essential to capital, and ingenuity

and mental energy a secure and dignified species of

property.
   " Science, Gentlemen, is of infinitely more impor-.

tance to .a state than may at first sight appear pos

sible; for no source of wealth and power can be

entirely independent of ` it; and no class of men are

Iso well able to appreciate its advantages as that to

which am now addressing myself. You have not

          sm HUMPHRY oxvr.                          4`9

only derived from it the means of raising your sub

terraneous wealth, but those also of rendering it avail

able to the public.
   " Science alone has made pit-coal such an. instru

ment in the hands of the chemist and mechanic; it

has made the elements of fire and water perform

operations which formerly demanded human labour;

and it has converted the productions of the earth into

a thousand new forms of use and beauty.
   " Gentlemen, allow me to observe in conclusion,

that it was in pursuing those methods of analogy and

Iexperiment, by which mystery had become science,

that was fortunately led to the invention of the

safety lamp. The whole progress of my researches
has been registered in the " Transactions of the Royal

Society," in papers which that illustrious body has ho

Inoured by their biennial medal, in which can con
Iscientiously assert, that have gratefully acknow

ledged even the slightest hints or offers of assistance

Iwhich have received during their composition.
  I" state this, Gentlemen, not from vainglory, but

on account of certain calumnious insinuations which

have arisen, not in the scientific world --for to that

Ithe whole progress of my researches is well known
but in a colliery.  must ever treat these insinua

tions with centempt ; and after the honest indignation

which has been expressed against them by the coal

Iowners in general, cannot feel any anxiety on the
I Isubject ; nor should have referred to it at all, did

not believe that the very persons amongst whom

these insinuations originated were extensively bene

Ifited by, and were constantly using, the invention
they would seek to disparage.  could. never have

VOL. I..            E

50 MEMOIRS or THELIFE or

expected that such persons would have engaged
their respectable connections in mean attempts to
impeach the originality of a discovery given to them

in the most disinterested manner, and for which no

return was required but an honest acknowledgment

of the benefit, founded upon truth and justice.

  I" do not envy them their feelings, particularly at
Ithe present moment.
                      do not wish to inquire into
Itheir motives. do hope, however, that their con

duct has been prompted by ignorance rather than by

malevolence, by misapprehension rather than by in

gratitude.

   " It was a new circumstance to me that attempts

to preserve human life, and to prevent human misery,

should create hostile feelings in persons who professed

Ito           objects in view.
have similar       have had some  opposition,  much

" Gentlemen,

labour, and more anxiety during the course of these

researches; but had the opposition, the labour, and

the anxiety been a thousand times as great, the

events of this day would have been more than a com

pensation."

Besides this present from the coal owners, he

 received also a splendid silver-gilt vase from the
 late Emperor Alexander of Russia, accompanied

by a letter from the Emperor himself expressive of

 hissentiments in relation to his important discovery ;
 and further, by his own sovereign, a baronetcy was

 conferred on him in 1818.

    He was urged by many of his friends to take out
 a patent for the safety lamp; but such a measure did
 not accord with his feeling of propriety, -- was not
 suitable to his views ofthe dignity of science: he pre
 ferred making it a gift to his country. Mr. Buddle,

sm HUMPHRY unvr.                       51

than whom no one could more justly appreciate the

value of his invention, was, as he himself states, one

of these friends.*

  I" felt," he says, " that he did not contemplate

I Iany pecuniary reward; and in a private conversation,
remonstrated with him on the subject.  said,

` You might as well have secured this invention by a

patent, and received your five or ten thousand a year

Ifrom it.' The reply of this great and noble-minded

man was-- ` No! my good friend, never thought of

such a thing: my sole object was to serve the cause

I Iof humanity; and if have succeeded, a1n amply

Irewarded in the gratifying reflection of having done

so.' expostulated (Mr. Buddle continues), say
Iing his idea was much too philosophic and refined

for the occasion. He replied, ` have enough for

all my views and purposes: more wealth might be

troublesome, and distract my attention from those

pursuits in which I delight. More wealth,' he added,

` could not increase either my fame or my happiness.

It might undoubtedly enable me to put four horses

to my carriage; but what would it avail me to have

it said that Sir Humphry drives his carriage and
four ? ' "'r

  IHere it was my intention to have closed this

chapter; but am induced to make an addition

to it in consequence of misstatements, which have

  If" a patent could have secured. a uniform and correct construction of

the safety lamp`, it is to be regretted that my brother did not give his in-`

vention the advantage of such a protection against counterfeits, merely

Iwith a view to the public good, and for the sake of humanity ; for have

been well informed that in too many instances the proprietors of collieries,
intent on a miserable economy, have procured and employed cheap lamps
nowise safe, made by uninformed artists ignorant of the true principle on

which the safety of the invention depends.

  E2T Letter from Mr. Buddle, 1830, in Dr. Paris's work.

52 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

appeared from time to time in the public prints,

depreciating the safety lamp, and calling its eflicacy

in question on the occasion of explosions in coal

mines, which, it is asserted anonymously, the lamp
did not prevent. For the sake of humanity, that

Ithe public may be led astray as little as possible by

these false accounts, shall introduce two communi

cations on the subject from Mr. Buddle, whose state

ments, so forcibly and clearly given, are admirably

adapted to carry conviction to doubting minds, and

correct the mischief likely to result from any want of
Iconfidence amongst the inexperienced.
                                        confess, too,
Ithat have another motive for introducing these

communications in my work---the pleasure they have

given me in perusal, from the warm and kind-hearted

manner in which the writer's regard and admiration of

the inventor of the lamp are expressed, and the strong
evidence he furnishes of the vast importance of the
invention to mankind, in an economical point of
view, connected with one of the principal sources of

our national wealth.

  IThe first communication shall give is a letter to

Sir Cuthbert Sharp, written in 1830, extracted from
Dr. Paris's work ; the second is of a later period, a
letter addressed to myselfi with which Mr. Buddle

favoured me, when disturbed by such reports as have

been just alluded to, questioning the safety of the
lamp. This last valuable letter is accompanied by
an extract from Mr. Buddle's journal, showing how

an explosion may take place owing to accident, and

which ignorance might attribute (as no doubt has
been done) unjustly to defectiveness of principle in

the lamp itself.

           SIB. HUMPHRY navr.                          53

" To Sir Cuthbert Sharp.

" MY DEAR                    " Newcastle,  August 28. 1830.
                CUTHBERT,
           SIR
I I" return Dr. Paris's letter, and shall briefly

Ifanswer his inquiries.

   " the Davy lamp was exclusively used, and due

care taken in its management, it is certain that few

accidents would occur in our coal mines; but the
exclusive use of the ` Davy ' is not compatible with
the working of many of our mines, in consequence

of their not being workable without the aid of gun

powder.

   " In such mines, where every collier must neces

sarily fire on the average two shots a day, we are ex
posed to the risk of explosion from the ignition of

the gunpowder, even if no naked lights were used in

carrying on the ordinary operations of the mine.
   " This was the case in Jarrow colliery, at the time

the late accident happened. As the use of gunpowder

was indispensable, naked lights were generally used;
and the accident was occasioned by a ` bag' of inflam
mable air forcing out a large block of coal in the

face of a drift from a fissure, in which it had been

pent up, perhaps from the creation, and firing at the

first naked light with which it came in contact, after

having been diluted down to the combustible point,

by a due admixture of atmospheric air.
   " As to the number of old collieries, and old work

ings which have been renovated, and as to the quan

tity of coal which has been and will be saved to the

public by the invention of the ` Davy,' it is scarcely

possible to give an account or to form an estimate.

In this part of the country, Walker's colliery,`

                             E0CY`

54 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

`

 after having been completely worked out, according
 to the former system, with candles and steel mills,
 and after having been abandoned in 1811, was re
 opened in 1818, by the aid of ` the Davy,' and has
 been worked on an extensive scale ever since, and

 may be continued to be worked for an almost indefi

 nite period.
     " Great part of the formerly relinquished workings

 of Walls End, Wellington, Percy Main, Hepburne,
 Jarrow, Eldswicks, Benwell, &c., as well as several

collieries on the Wear, have been recovered, and are

continued in work by the invention of the Davy."

  If I I" had only--what you know perfectly well
Ihave not --time, could write a volume on the subject.
*¢ #
              ##                         #

" Believe me, my dear Sir Cuthbert, to remain
                        " Yours very faithfully,
                                                 " JOHN BUDDLE."

              " To John Davy, Esq. M.D.

      " SIR,  " Walls End Colliery, 4th Dec., 1833.

" In compliance with your desire, communicated
Ito me by a letter which have received from Mrs.

Fletcher through our mutual friend Mr. Turner, to

give you my present opinion of the eflicacy of the

Isafety lamp, invented by your late lamented brother,

Sir Humphry, have the satisfaction to state that my

opinion of its entire eflicacy and safety, except from

accidents, against which no human power can pro

tectI it,

   "                                                                                          is `
       remains perfectly unchanged.
      have now had more than eighteen years' ex

perience, in extensive practice, of this most invaluable

coal-mining utensil, the invention of which alone

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  55

suflicient to immortalise the fame of its distinguished

inventor in the annals of science, even if no other

invention had sprung from his fertile genius to waft

Ihis scientific fame down to the latest posterity.

. " During the period above alluded to, have had
hundreds of the ` Davy lamps' in daily use in the

various collieries under my inspection, and have seen

them tried in all the variety of circumstances inci

dental to our fiery mines, over and over again, and

Ihave the satisfaction to say that during this whole

period have not known or heard of a single acci

dent having happened from any defect in the prin

Iciple of the lamp ; and can assert, without fear of

contradiction, that every one who has had experience

of the use of the Davy lamp will hear me out in this

statement. All that is necessary to ensure perfect

Isafety in the use of the Davy lamp, in all the varieties

of explosive mixtures which have ever met with in

coal mines, is simply to attend to the instructions
given by its lamented inventor: his penetrating ge
nius foresaw all the contingencies to which it might

Ieventually be exposed, and pointed out the remedy.

    " have known several fatal accidents occur from
explosion where the ` Davys' were used; but in every
case, where the cause of the explosion could be
traced, it was invariably found not to have occurred
from any defect in the principle of safety established

by Sir Humphry. It is true that explosions have

occurred from negligence or accidents happening to

Ithe lamp; but am enabled confidently to state, on
Ithe strength and test of the experience have had,

that nothing has ever occurred to afford grounds for

impugning the principle of safety. In conclusion, I

 would observe, that perhaps there can hardly be a

                                               E4

56 MEMOIRS or rm: LIFE or

more satisfactory proof of the safety of the Davy
lamp, than that many hundreds of people, as well as
myself, have used it for so long a period, in all de
grees of explosive mixture incidental to our mines,
without having experienced a single accident from it.
Only one accident has occurred in this colliery from

Ithe Davy, which was attributable to accident; and

inclose a copy of the minutes of the circumstance, as

entered in my journal at the time, to show how acci

dents may happen which no human power can guard

against.'

                  * Extract from J. Buddle's Journal.

" An   explosion  " Walls End Colliery, Wednesday, Aug. 5th, 1818.
                  took place in the N. E. jenking drifts, going from the
J.G towards the F pit, about three o'clock this afternoon. William

Reay and Ra Waggett. hewers, and Nesbitt and John Elliot, boys,

were   working in the  drifts              at the time.     and W. Reay  only  survived
       The explosion   was a               very smart one,
   "

it; the other three bemg severely burnt, and suffocated. W. Reay was

also most dreadfully burnt, and only survived the accident twenty-six

hours. He was quite sensible and collected after the accident, although

in "theHigsrea`Dteastvyag' ownya,ntainngd  gave    me the following  account of the matter:
                                                   he sent the boy   Nesbit out by to the
                                            oil,
crane with it to get it replenished with oil. The boy did so, and re
turned with ` the Davy :' when he had come within about twenty yards
of the face, Reay observed that the inflammable air was burning furi
ously within the cylinder of the `Davy,' and called to the boy to run to

him with it. The boy immediately began to run, but had not pro

ceeded more than a few steps when he fell, and the explosion instantly

took   place.     was  very                smart,  and knocked  out  one stopping  and a
    "  The shock

man door, which caused the ventilation to fall yards short of the face;

and although Reay got out with great difliculty, the after-damp was so
strong, that no person could possibly get in to the assistance of the suf

ferers until the stopping and man door were repaired in a temporary
manner. In less than two hours, the bodies of the three sufferers Were

got out ; they were all severely burnt, and had been dead for some time."

I"                                                  " Thursday, 6th August, 1818.
       went this morning to investigate and examine the state of `the

Davys,' particularly that from which the explosion happened. No per

Ison"had seen   them since the accident.           took place, in    the stenting  near
         found  that at which the explosion

      sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                     57

  I I" assure you, Sir, that, although have not the

pleasure of knowing you personally, it will give me
pleasure to cultivate the acquaintance of one so nearly

related to the eminent person whose memory has

Iled to this communic`ation,--one whom, in life,

Itruly esteemed, and whose memory shall revere to
Ithe last moment of my existence.

                               " am, Sir,
                                      " Yours faithfully,

                                            " J. BUDDLE."

  I shall add one letter more from Mr. Buddle, with

which he has recently favoured me, written after the

last dreadful explosion in the Walls-End Colliery, and
after the sitting of a select committee of the House
of Commons, having for its object, to make inquiry
relative to accidents in coal mines. Mr. Buddle's

Iletter was in reply to one which addressed to him,

begging to be informed if the cause of the explo

sion above alluded to had been discovered, and

if there were any just grounds for suspecting that

in that catastrophe the safety lamp had been in

the jenkin described by Reay. It had received a blow on one side,

which had bulged the bottom of the gauze cylinder down with the

brass collar. The copper ring in the inside of the gauze cylinder was

also bulged and twisted, and loosened. On close inspection, an aperture

was found between the outside of the gauze cylinder and the brass col

Ilar, apparently occasioned by the bulge in the gauze, large enough to

admit the point of an awl, through which have no doubt the explosion

passed. All the other lamps, four in number, were in a perfect state,

and"  the whole of them   were locked.     declared that the ` Davys' were
      John Thompson,     the lamp keeper,

all in the most perfect state of` repair when he delivered them locked to

the drifters at the beginning of their shift, particularly Wm. Reay's,
which had a new gauze cylinder put to it the preceding day. These

drifts have all along been very foul, and Jos. Lowrie (overman) states
them to have been cleaner on the morning of the accident than usual."

58 mamoms or ran LIFE or

fault, as had been confidently asserted in some of
the journals of the day.

I" DEAR SIR,    " Walls End Colliery, 21st August, 1835.

                                     .
" had the pleasure to receive your letter of the

I10th instant, on returning here yesterday, after a few
days' absence.  shall be happy to contribute any

thing and every thing in my power to do justice to

the memory of our lamented friend, with respect to

his inimitable invention of the safety lamp, and

to rescue it from the shade which certain pretenders

are endeavouring to throw over it. But all these

ephemeral attacks will pass away as a cloud, and the
original Davy lamp will maintain its ground, and the

memory of its immortal author be revered for ages,

Iafter all those would-be inventors, scientific twaddlers,

and nibblers at his fame are forgotten. endeavoured,

Ias far as was able, in my last examination in the

committee of the House on accidents in coal mines,

to do ample justice to the invention of the `Davy,'

and only regret that the important task was not com

mitted to abler hands. I, however, endeavoured to

Ido my best; and when the evidence is published,
hope you will find the facts therein stated useful to

your object as well as satisfactory to your feelings, as

so near a relation to that able and excellent man, to

whom the scientific world is so much indebted, and

                it has
                above
Iwhose premature loss

   " In the evidence
                        to deplore.  stated that
                        alluded to,

after nearlytwenty years' experience of `the Davy,'

with from 1000 to 1500 in daily use, in all the variety
of circumstances incident to coal mining, without a

single accident having happened which could be

        sm HUMPHRY nxvy.                        59

attributed to any defect in its principle, or' even in the

rules for its practical application, as laid down by
Sir Humphry Davy,--I maintained that ` THE DAVY '

approximated perfection as nearly as any instrument

of human invention could be expected to do.
   " We have ascertained distinctly that the late ex

plosion in this colliery did not happen in that part of
the mine where ` the Davys ' were used. They were
all found in a perfect state after the accident -- many
of them in the hands of the dead bodies of the

i i lsufferers.                   if         `
                $I=
        I" am, my dear Sir,

               " Very respectfully yours,
                                             " Jonu BUDDLE.
" J. Davy, Esq. M.D."

   Till the minutes of the evidence collected by the
parliamentary committee be published, this letter of

IMr. Buddle's will, trust, be satisfactory to all prac
Itical men. Men of science, hope, do not require

any additional evidence in relation to the safety

of the lamp, inasmuch as they well know that in

accordance with its principle, it can be constructed
to be as perfect a barrier against the most inflammable
mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, or of olefiant gas

and oxygen, as against the most feebly explosive
mixture that ever occurred in a colliery.*

" Whilst this sheet was in the press, the Reports from the Select
Committee alluded to in the text, together with the minutes of evidence

Icollected by them, extending to 320 folio pages, have been put into my
hands.  shall give one extract only from the report, partly on account

of the acknowledgement contained in   it,  of the benefits derived from

                                          a
the safety lamp, and partly on account of misapprehension relative to

the principles of the invention.

60 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

" Your Committee have endeavoured to investigate with strict impar

tiality the merits of the different lamps which have been brought under
their notice. In the course of the evidence, many varieties will be

found described. The invention claimed by the late Sir Humphry Davy,

on principles demonstrated by that able philosopher, may be considered

as having essentially served the mining interests of this kingdom, and

through them contributed largely to the sources of national as well as

individual wealth. Many invaluable seams of coal never could have

been worked without the aid of such an instrument ; and its long use

throughout an extensive district, with the comparatively limited number

of accidents, proves its claim to be considered, under ordinary circum

stances, a safety lamp. The principles of its construction appear to

have been practically known to the witnesses, Clanny and Stevenson,

previously to the period when Davy brought his powerful mind to bear
upon the subject, and produced an instrument which will hand down
his name to the latest ages." `

That the principles of the construction of the wire-gauze safety lamp
were known to Dr. Clanny and Mr. Stevenson, before its invention by my
brother, cannot be admitted nor maintained, --- nor is it just to insinuate

it. The principles of these gentlemen's lamps were totally different ;

and it is an abuse of language    to  say they were   --praasctimcaulslyt   the same,
                                 to   confine flame,                       necessarily
merely because their object was

be the aim of every kind of safety lamp attempted, in which the source

of light is flame.

sm HUMPHRY n.wr.  61

                             CHAPTER II.

FURTHER CHEMICAL RESEARCHES---LETTERS TO HIS MOTHER._EX_

    TRACTS FROM HIS N0'I`E--BO0KS, PHILOSOPHICAL, RELIGIOUS, AND

   POLITICAL.--~R/EMARKS ON THEM.--A SPECIMEN OF HIS PHILO

    SOPHICAL POETRY

'I`HE preceding researches on fire-damp and flame
were brought to a close in the beginning of 1817.
During the following year my brother communicated
to the Royal Society two papers,--one " On the Fa]
lacy of Experiments in which Water is said to have
been formed by the Decomposition of Chlorine ;" the
other, "New Experiments on some of the Combinations
of Phosphorus." In the first he showed, by simple
and decisive experiments, that the error of conclu-.
sion relative to the production of water and the de
composition of chlorine arose from overlooking the
nature of the vessels used, the impurities present,
and the effects of complicated attractions. In the
second, he determined many doubtful points relative
tothe combinations of phosphorus with oxygen and
chlorine; and more especially the proportions of
phosphorus and oxygen in phosphoric acid. This
he was able to do with unusual accuracy by an in
genious contrivance of confining the highly inflam
mable body in a glass tube with a small orifice, and
heating it in a measured quantity of oxygen gas.
The phosphorus, by the heat, was converted into
vapour, and burnt as a gas in the atmosphere of
oxygen, in a regulated gentle manner, insuring. its

62 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

complete combustion; and the oxygen absorbed

indicated the exact quantity that enters into the

composition of phosphoric acid.
   Between the spring of 1815 and of 1818, he made

several journeys to the north of England, and into

Scotland, partly in connection with his researches
relative to fire-damp, but chiefly for the sake of fish
ing and shooting; and one of these excursions ex

tended as far as the Orkney Islands.

   Of the letters which he wrote during this period

to his family, there are but few remaining, and they
are chiefly confined to family matters, in which he

always continued to take a lively interest, and retain
all his early feelings. They are invariably kind and

affectionate, and sometimes contain sentiments which

to a pious and affectionate mother must have been

very delightful. Thus in one, dated Kirkwall, Ork

ney Islands, August 12., after having freely given

Ihis opinions on a subject of some anxiety and doubt,

he adds, " trust, my dear mother, that you will not
have any anxiety in consequence of my opinions on

this subject. It is our duty to make the best we can

of this world; and there is a Power far above our
comprehension, who may produce good out of what

appears for the moment an evil, and who never for
sakes those who deserve well."

   In only two of these remaining letters does he

allude to the safety lamp. Thus in one to my mother,

dated Bath, October 27. 1816, evidently in reply to

some inquiries, he writes, ---- " It is true that the col

Iliers are getting made for me a piece of plate.

know not the value of nor do care much;
it,

        I

                            it

                                       is

                                   it
                                           is
not to be less than 1000 guineas. But  the

nature of the present, for saving the lives of my

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  68

Ifellow-creatures, that  value." And in another,

dated London, May 25. 1818, in which he acquaints

her with his plans for another journey on the Con

tinent, undertaken chiefly on account of two objects,

--the extending of the use of the safety lamp, and
the hope of benefiting literature by attempting by

chemical means the unrollment of the Herculaneum
MSS. :--

" MY DEAR MOTHER,
I" We are just going upon a very interesting
journey.  am first to visit the coal miners of

Flanders, who have sent me a very kind letter of in

Ivitation and of thanks for saving their lives. We are

then going to Austria, where shall show Vienna to

Lady Davy, and then visit the mines ; and lastly,

Ibefore return, we are going to visit Naples.
  I" have the commands of his Royal Highness

Ithe Prince Regent to make experiments upon some

very interesting ancient manuscripts, which hope to

unfold.

  I" had yesterday the honour of an audience from

his Royal Highness, and he commissioned me to pursue
this object in the most gracious and kind manner. `

                 *=ll # =lt =#

" We shall be absent some months. With kindest

Ilove to my sisters and my aunts,

                 " am, my dear Mother,
                           " Your most affectionate Son,
                                                    " H. DAVY."

  IBefore entering on an account of this journey,

shall give a selection of his thoughts and views on

various matters, which are scattered through his note
books kept during this period of his life, extending

641 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

from about the year of his marriage to the time to
which the narrative has been brought.

   " Persons of very exalted talents and virtues may
be said to derive their patent of nobility directly from
God ; and their titles are not registered in perishable
court calendars, but written in the great histories of
Nature or of Man."

   " Those brilliant and poetical works in which en
thusiasm takes place of reason, and in which the

human intellect exhausts itself, as it were, in imagin
ation and feeling, resemble monstrous flowers, bril

liant and odorous, but affording no materials of re

production."

" Men value most what is obtained with most difli

culty and what is most uncommon; and certain
ancient superstitions have given an air of sanctity

and veneration to trifles, so that in the world things

are hardly ever valued according to their real worth.

A moss-grown stone hallowed by some monkish

legend is often adored, whilst a god produced by

the genius of Phidias is neglected."                        .

   " To look for moral codes and political axioms in
works of a certain description, would be to look for
the ancient history of nations in their mythology;
and to endeavour to trace the form and the laws of

the motions of the sun in the clouds surrounding him

at sunset."

We see the healthy activity and the happiness
```

                                                       it,
of social life with little or no interest; but we are

awakened by discordant states of                            and by all the

          srn HUMPHRY DAVY.                   65

forms of misery. Those who confer benefits of the
highest kind are neglected, whilst the persons who
have most contributed to the misery of individuals are
often exalted to the highest rank. An Attila, or a

Genghiz Khan in miniature, are not uncommon. The
dew descends from heaven, the sunbeam kindles life
where it falls; but they are neglected; the earth

quake, the volcano, and the tempest are registered:
yet in our annals the quiet permanency of benefactions
is well contrasted with the feverish transiency of the
great and the terrible."

"I` know no better subject for a useful and pa.
triotic work than the display of the habits and
pursuits of the English on the Continent. In France

everything is pure selfishness; and the character of
society, and even of the people, is well displayed

in the Palais Royale. Every one there lives for

himself; vice is exhibited in all its magnificence; and
the luxurious repose of the sensualist is only diversi
Ified by the hopes and fears of the gambler.
                                              can

hardly imagine any thing more fatal to the exquisite
sensibility and the amiable modesty of Englishwomen,

Ithan that life which brings them continually in contact
with vice and folly.  have been shocked to see a

a young female, who at home would not venture even

into the most refined society except upon the arm of
her mother, in the " Café des Milles Colonnes," seated

at table in themidst of`a crowd of pickpockets, pros

titutes, black-legs, and soldiers, exposed to the gaze.

of the licentious, and becoming the companion of

personsithe most abandoned."

Of the French at their revolution he writes,--U

voL. II.              F

66 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or .

" They did not, like the English patriots, kindle a
sacred flame of liberty by the light of which they

read their ancient law ; but they kindled a devouring
flame of anarchy, calling it a fire of liberty, and fed
it with all that was sacred in their religion and their
law; and after having burnt the records of their faith,
                     a                                               of
they frantically danced round                 like nation            of
savages, whilst the bleached andit,          parched bones

                                            a
victims seemed to show that nation of cannibals had
been celebrating feast to Moloch."
                  a

" In minds of great power, there             usually                            `
                                             is
                                                                  a  dis-

position to variety of pursuits, and they often attempt
all branches of letters and science, and even the imi

tative arts; but they become truly eminent,                          by
                  if a if                    is,
                           if                            a

                                      a                    it
                                          a                      is
devotion to one object at time, or at most two ob

jects. This sort of general power like profusion
of blossoms on fi`uit tree, symptom of health and
strength; but all are suffered to become fruit, all

are feeble and bad;  the greater portion              is             de

stroyed by accident or art, the remainder being pro

perly nourished become healthy, large, and good."

   " The advance of years brings indifference, and at
the same time strength and steadiness. The young

sapling  is     moved by every breeze; shoots forth its
              is
leaves vigorously when favoured by dew and sun

shine; but often severely injured, not destroyed,
                                             if

                                                   it it

                                                                       is
by frosts. In the mature tree, as the heartwood
covered by many coatings of sapwood,
                                               becomes

compressed and harder; but though              loses its

vitality, contributes to the strength of the vege
         it

table."

SIR nnurnnr navy.  67

   " It is not that honours are worth having, but it is
painful not to have them. A star gives consequence in

the eye of the common world, and even those people
who most affect to despise such external signs of
court favour are often influenced by them. Honours
are to true glory what artificial lights are to sun

shine : they attract those eyes that are not fitted for
sunshine. The bat and the moth fly towards the
torch, and the eagle soars towards the heavens. But
it may be said of artificial lights that they are useful

to all eyes; and when they are intended to illumine,

and not to dazzle, their effect is excellent. Elizabeth

was very chary in distributing her honours, and hence

they were valued."

   " In general the stream of court favour is like a
stream in an alluvial country : the banks by which it

is to be reached are muddy; and whoever would
drink of the waters must wade through dirt to reach
them, and stoop for his draught."

    " Our ministers attribute to themselves, to their
councils and plans, the downfal of Bonaparte; the
Romish priests consider it as owing to their prayers
and anathemas. Certainly a pious man, who regards

heaven as influenced by prayer, may find more rea
son in the last than in the first; for our ministers

could have nothing to do with the frost of Smolen
sko, or with Bonaparte's obstinacy after he had
driven the allies from Troyes ; and before that Lord
Castlereagh would have signed a peace, which would
have offered breathing time to a man whose life was
pledged for empire, and whose path to empire was
the destruction of Britain."

                                               F2

68 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE or

   " It is better to deserve honours and not to have

them, than to have them and not deserve them."

   " Pride makes men entertaining only to them
selves: vanity makes them entertaining to others."

   " It is in society as in nature--not the useful, but

the ornamental, that strikes the imagination. The

monstrous flower, which produces nothing, arrests the
eye ; the modest and humble germ of the grain, the
staff of human life, is passed by with neglect: but the
one is the fancy of the florist, and fades, and dies,

and disappears for ever; the other is propagated

from generation to generation, eternal in its use."

    " The brilliant decorations which ornament the        `

courts of Europe, those lights from mock suns and
stars, are the creations of a moment; but they cause

more wonder than the rays from the real suns and stars.

Men of the world look on the ground for reflected

lights, and scarcely ever raise their eyes above to the
lights in the heavens, and to the names that are written
there, which are almost invisible, and have no great

ness, save when they are seen through the telescope
of time; yet they are everlasting, and are viewed
from all parts of the earth, and by all people."

  " Science, unlike literature, is independent of taste

or caprice."

    " Whoever wishes to enjoy peace, and is gifted

with great talents, must labour for posterity. In

doing this, he enjoys all the pleasures of intellectual

labour, and all the desire arising from protracted

snt HUMPHRY DAVY.              69

hope. He feels no envy nor jealousy; his mark is too
far distant to be seen by shortsighted malevolence,
and therefore it is never aimed at."

   " To raise a chestnut on the mountain, or a palm
in the plain, which may afford shade, shelter, and

fruit for generations yet unborn, and which, if they

have once fixed their roots, require no culture, is

better than to raise annual flowers in a garden, which

must be watered daily, and in which a cold wind

may chill or too ardent a sunshine may dry."

   " The best faculties of man are employed for          `

futurity: speaking is better than acting*, writing
is better than speaking. The politician is a creature
of to-day; the philosopher a child of to-morrow: the
one is like the upper surface of the water, changed
by the wind, the cloud, and the sunshine; the other

is like its depths, always tranquil and unchanged."

   " Probably there is an analogy in all existence: the
divided tail of the fish is linked in a long succession
of like objects with the biped man. In the planetary
system it is probable man will be found connected

with a higher intellectual nature; and it is possible

that the monad, or soul, is constantly undergoing a
series of progressions."

   " Our institutions may be regarded as the frames
in which the web of social life is woven, where the

warp of self-interest is crossed by the woof of feeling

and reason, and in which the coloured or figured

* That is, theatrical acting.
               F3

T0 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

threads may be regarded as those of sentiment; and
so a stuff is framed, not only strong but likewise
brilliant."

    " When young shoots grow on a rotten trunk, the
only way to save them is to detach them. Analogy
rotten aristocracies and governments, and young and
vigorous life amongst the people."

   " The works of scientific men are like the atoms    `

of gold, of sapphire and diamonds, that exist in a
mountain; they form no perceptible part of the
mass of the mountain; they are neglected and un

known when it is entire ; they are covered with ve
getable mould, and by forests. But when time has

sapped its foundation--when its fragments are scat

tered abroad by the elements, and its decayed mate-.

rials carried down by rivers, then they glitter, and
are found; then their immortality is known, and they

are employed to ornament the diadems of emperors
and the sceptres of kings. They press under them
the brows of majesty. They lie too deep to be readily
found. When sovereigns are at the expense of dig

ging out these riches, they are repaid by seeing them
gems in their crowns; and they shine imperishable,
independent of their greatness and glory."

   " The aspirations for immortality are movements
of the mind similar to those which the bird makes

with its wings before they are furnished with fea
thers."

  " How much increase of riches, _coal mines, mi

neral treasures, increase of health by ventilation,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  71

draining, &c. --increase of strength by gunpowder,
steam engine, &c., characterise modern times ! These
are imperishable. The strength of armies will pass

away. It is not the thunder storm and the whirlwind,

but the dews, the rain, and the sunshine, that fertilize

the earth."

   "God governs man by the simplest and most

benevolent means,--hope and fear. The powers
and affections of life cling even to the rudest and
most turbulent characters, and the deeper we ex
amine the more they are found. Thus, though the
surface of the rock in the stormy sea and most rapid
torrent is bare; yet below the surface it is covered
with vegetation, fed by the raging and foaming

waters."

   " Beware of too much prosperity and popularity.

Life is made up of mixed passages--dark and
bright, sunshine and gloom. The unnatural and
excessive greatness of fortune of Alexander, Caesar,

and Napoleon ; --- the first died after divine honours
were paid him; the second gained empire, the con
summation of his ambition, and lost his life imme
diately; the third, from a private individual, became
master of continental Europe, and allied to the old
est dynasty, and after his elevation his fortune im
mediately began to fall. Even in private life, too
much prosperity either injures the moral man and
occasions conduct which ends in suffering, or is ac
companied by the workings of the envy, calumny,
and malevolence of others. These circumstances

ought to reconcile us to calumny, envy, and misre
presentation. The universal voice of fame, popularity,

                                              F4

72 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

honour, &c. belong only to the dead orithe                dying.

See the beautiful lines on Pope, --

       _--_----" That day, for come it must,--
                That day shall we lament to see," &c. --

   " In the exercise of intellectual power there is a
high degree of enjoyment, which has compensated
for the neglect, persecution, and imprisonment of the

greatest men--Galileo, Roger Bacon, &c.

   " We know nothing at all of the plan or scheme
of the universe, but we believe there is a plan. Con

sequently, events may in fact have a connection

Ifwhich appear to us the most unconnected and re
mote.  the popular and antiphilosophical view of

omens, prophecies, and prodigies be correct, this is

the only philosophical solution that can be given.
The apparent ravings of Thomas the Rhymer, respect

Iing the Mackenzie family, have no natural connection

with the remarkable event of which am an historical

witness; no more than the rattling of the wheels of

a carriage at an inn door witli the death of poultry,
which, however, we know is the remote cause. The

chickens can as much fathom this, as we can the

mysteries of our being and nature."

   " Human life may be compared to mountain

scenery in a cloudy and windy day, when the clouds
cover more sky than is open. We wonder at the
bright light, travelling rapidly along the surface of
the mountain, and while we wonder it is gone. Now

the distances appear in light, and now in shade ; and.
parts of the horizon of futurity are bright in sunshine,
and others dark in gloom. The hopes that we have

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  73

with respect to another state of existence may be

compared to the reflections that we see in the sky,
when we ourselves are in gloom, from a distant sunny
country. We are conscious that there is a lighted

surface in sunshine, though we are totally ignorant
of the source of it."

    " Our histories of past events are somewhat like the

wrecks upon the sea beach : things are often thrown

up because they happen to be light, or because they
have been entangled in sea-weed; i. e. facts are pre
served which suit the temper or party of a particular

historian."

    " The coming of the blast is shown by the noise
of the distant wood. The philosopher knows that

vibrations in the air travel infinitely quicker than its

currents; and to him the circumstance is a scientific
principle, whilst to the savage it is only a vague omen.

So omens of every kind, if we could trace the long

chain of causes and effects, would be either naturally

associated symptoms or causes."

   " To infinite wisdom the past, present, and the
future are alike; and gleams of that wisdom are

sometimes bestowed upon the meanest and most in
significant beings. Vultures assemble where battles
are to be fought, and the carrion fly buzzed round
Buckingham before he received the blow of the as
sassin."

  I" Believing in a present Deity. -- think we can

hardly avoid referring instinct to his immediate in
fluence, and of course the particular case is involved."

74 zuamoms OF THE LIFE or

   " In the beginning of all pursuits, sympathy or a
desire of obtaining the approbation, or respect, or ad
miration of our fellow men, has the greatest influence
over the mind; thus we hunt, and fish, and shoot in
society, and glory in success: at last, however, the
pursuit itself becomes abstracted; and this is for
tunate, for we learn how selfish human nature is as

we grow older."

   " The miser knows that money is power, and that
it represents almost all that is sought for, desired, and
envied by mankind, and he is perfectly happy in in
creasing his latent power; yet in reality he is as
absurd as the man who should pass his life in accu
mulating gunpowder, because it is the instrument by
which battles are won."

" May it not be imagined that the monads or spi

ritual germs which animate or create organic forms

have no relation to space, and pass from systems to

systems, wholly unlike matter, which is limited to its
own gravitating sphere ? Is not light the first enve

lope    of   the monads,  and may not  my earliest hypo
thesis        true ? "
         be

   " What is true with respect to matter will probably
with respect to spirit be absolutely false, as supposing
organisation only the link or substratum of thought :
all analogies will fail us from gross matter applied to

light."

   " Is there not a monad, or one perceptive atom or
principle, which plays, as it were, round different ar
rangements in the brain, and which acts in its own

                           SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

little world, as the great diffusive monad does in the
universe ? But how far beyond our power of concep
tion ! how we are lost! and how infinitelylittle of man
and his thoughts becomes most evident!"

    " Men who have considered nature only by what
is visible, and who find in the forms and energies of
matter the generation of thought, are like children,
who may consider the motion and action of a steam
engine as produced by solid matter ; ignorant of the
elements of fire and water, which are the immediate

cause of its activity, or of the physical discoveries of

human intelligence by which the combinations pro
ducing it were made."

    " What is the instinct of animals but an immediate
revelation ? and they have more instinct in proportion
as they have less reason. In the infancy of human

society, man being a .more perfect animal required
more moral instincts or revelations to preserve his
social existence. Now, even the rudest people are
accessible to the more civilised, and special revelations
are no longer necessary.

    " It is quite certain that in these revelations no new

ideas were given, and no new impressions received;
 even the supposed presence of Deity may have been
 an imagination of a human form, and the miracles
 delusions of the human mind, though clearly disposed
 to these delusions by the existence of the instinct;
 and this, indeed, is in accordance with the divine wis
 dom and power, as it is much more easy for mind
 to produce an ideal conviction of satisfied appetite,
 than to create a new quantity of matter, which must

 have been the case, if the few small loaves and fishes

76 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

had been suflicient to satisfy the multitude in the
wilderness."

If" we suppose very high pressure, even organic

Ifcompounds may exist under circumstances `which
would appear incompatible with them.                                   we sup

pose an aqueous vapour atmosphere swimming above

our common atmosphere, and weighing a hundred

times as much, and our atmosphere heated so highly

that the pressure 1nade it exactly of the same specific

                    is,

                                           it

                                                               is,
gravity as it now limestone might be fluid, and yet

animals live in water; because their decomposition

would not be more certain than now                                  and there

would be very little difference in the surface, except
in the fluidity of certain forms of matter, the exten

sive atmosphere, and the self-shining character of the

globe.

   " The force of attraction being so great in the sun,

no decomposition or changes could take place, there
                                                                       if
was not some compensating relative energy; so that
                                                                            ;
if be composed of matter like our earth, l_ifé could
it
                      it it,

                                                    a
not exist upon      unless its temperature were very

elevated. The planets most distant from the sun are

larger, but composed of lighter matter probably for

the same reason, may be matter more susceptible

of expansion from heat."

                    " RELIGION. --- INSTINCT.
" With respect to my ideas of revelation and in

stinct,a            as easy for the Supreme Intelligence to

         it

                is
form thinking being such as Newton, as crystal,
                                                                    a

without the slow process of generation of body or

mind."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.          77

   " Adam's` first inspiration transmitted to his off

-spring.--Religious instincts may be hereditary,

moral excellencies and physical, as well as defects
or diseases."

               --LEVITES. JEWS. -- noos.

     " The quality, disease, or virtue of inspiration may

  be dormant in many generations, and yet appear

  again, as in the case of animals with instincts de
  stroyed by domestication, and in insanity, gout, &c.,
. which sleep for three or four generations."

   " Is not the want of a religious instinct in the New
Hollanders aproof that they are a distinct creation,
as the kangaroo and Ornithorhynchus para`doxus ?"

   " One sees in all this why the Jews were kept a

pure people, and not permitted to marry strangers."

" Men cannot image or typify the feelings of re

ligion; and the breathing of the Divine mind is still

thrown upon sensible objects with which it cannot

blend, but which it merely sets in motion. Like the

pure air, which agitates equally the muddy pool, the

clear lake, aqd the immense ocean, but is ever above
them, and unmingled with them, it gives form to

their waves, but does not change their substance; so

inspiration can be made known to men only through

terms connected with common life and popular ideas ;

and revelation must be an impulse of thought, or a.

peculiar association of ideas, and not a new creation

of thought. Even in the Roman and Greek my

thology, there seem to have been some vestiges or`

remains of this instinct.
" Prophecy or inspiration limited to particular

78 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

purposes, not giving omniscience, and necessarily
blended with the false knowledge of the mind.

   " Glimmerings of divine light seem often to belong
to the weakest intellects, and to have been exhibited

in recent times."

           " THOMAS THE RHYMER'S PROPHECY.

   " Nothing so easy, in my theory, as to account for
all the aberrations of the divine light, and even the
necessity for this: its pure appearance in the primi
tive Christian church; its refractions by forms and
ceremonies in the Romish church acting upon bar
barians ; the excessive zeal of the Reformers.

   " Much of doctrinal absurdity in the freethinking
or deistical school arises from Anthropoganism, as
their supposing the divine mind similar to the human:
but the largest and the smallest finite quantities are
alike compared with infinity; and though there is a
great difference between the intelligence of a Newton
and an oyster compared with each other, yet there
is none when either of them is compared with infinite
wisdom. The destruction of a world and the crush
ing of a gnat are alike insignificant when compared
with infinity; and to make infinite wisdom and good-`
ness after our models is absurd-more so than to
expect a preaching ant, or a writing bee.

    " We must believe that whatever has been once
sentient will be for ever sentient, and has been for
ever sentient; but the human intellect is by divine
wisdom made acquainted with the past only as it may

be useful to guide to the future; but I have some

idea that conscience is a habit of mind, resulting from
a previous state of existence.

    " The child has used all its senses before LWO

           ` srn IIUMPHRY DAVY.                                79

years old, and has cried and laughed, suffered and
enjoyed; but all this is forgotten by the man. The
oblivion of past being does not, however, destroy the
consequences of its existence. The child forgets the
accident of a fall, but the limb continues maimed.

It will be no consolation to know that future punish

ment will be connected with an oblivion of the defi

nite course of suffering.

   " It seems to be an axiom that what is revealed

should be what cannot be attained by reason, and

what often must be, or appear to be, contradictory

to it.

   " What appears most desirable to the child, the

gilded toy, is despicable to the man 5 and how little
the child cares for the objects of the ambition of the

man !      flight  `                     _  the  migrations    of

   " The           of the  quail and

the landrail are in fact miraculous, when the short

habitual flight of these birds is considered.
   " The meteoric stones in our time are a miracle of

nature.

   " Man is not intended to pry into futurity; and
the occasional miracles and gleams of prophecy

seem intended to demonstrate divine interference or

pow"eNr.o mortal has seen any thing like creation, and

no mortal being has received divine honours and
lived long.--Alexander the Great -- Captain Cook
-- Roman Emperors.
" Nothing so fatal as excess of power or happi
       --
ness.  No  Napoleon   Bonaparte.            of   Christianity  in
           proofs of  the divine origin
   "

the purity of its doctrines, but decided proofs in the

80 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

manner in which it began to exist, and in the history
of its progress.

  " It appears to me that the first process in an

active and ingenious mind, when it begins to ex

Ifamine religious matters, is disbelief; the next doubt;
the last belief.  we show the existence of

something above experience or reason in animals,

and prove from geological considerations man to be

a recently created animal, then instincts will be ne

cessary for his early existence; and amongst these,
religious instincts. Is it not probable that in the

colder planets there is more intellectual life? In

proportion as our planet appears to have cooled, so in

proportion has it been fitted for higher forms of

animal life.

   " The number of moons round the distant planets,
the belts of Jupiter, the ring of Saturn, all would

require great intellectual power for the observation

of their physical phenomena and determination of

laws.

   " Darwin,.in his `Zoonomia,' has endeavoured to
prove that all instinct is reason. The fact of the

.ducks hatched under the hen instantly going to
 water overturns every thing he has written. There

are myriads of other instances. The young turtles
and crocodiles, hatched without care of parents, run

to the water. The crocodile bites at a stick, if it be

presented to it the moment it is hatched.
   " Habits that keep the mind in vigour are not

formed in a small instant ; and the sources of our last

ing pleasures must be sought for deeply. The an

nual flower has not a deep or long-continued root,

and its bright bloom is for a summer's week ; the

           SIR HUMPHRY DA.VY.                                                    81

mighty oak that slowly rises, sends` its roots as far

as its branches, and the heavens and earth. shareit

alike."                                 .

" We have no idea of the creation of living beings;

for nothing analogous occurs in the history of nature,

and we see nothing except the successive generations

of living beings, all ab ovo ,- yet it  certain that
           aa
                                     a

                                                                    ; is.
                                                                     a

                                                                              a
there was  period when most of the existing ge

nerations did not exist, and when races of animals

were in being that are now extinct. In the former
order of things we find multitude of fishes, few

amphibia, few birdsand quadrupeds but amongst

the remains of life, no marks of an intelligent race of

beings that had altered the surface of the globe in

the way that man has done. Has such race ex
isted before man? Probably not; for some of his

works would have been destroyed with more difliculty

than the bones of fishes or the. skeletons of birds.

This can only be said of that great. change produced

in the matter of the globe by water, and which seems

to have preceded the present order of things. A

change produced by fire would have destroyed every

thing belonging to life, even its organised forms;

and would have left, in the place of order, beauty,

and intelligence, mere crystalline arrangement, the
           a

                              G

                                              a
                                                        is

                                                                                                                `

                                                                    , is
result of the chemical attractions of matter. That

this was the state of the globe which immediately
preceded the first appearance of the animals whose

remains exist in the aqueous formations, there
every reason to conclude; and that destruction of '

the present order by fire may take place, within
the reach of probabilities.

   " But can such be the disposition of things, that

vor.. 11.

SQ MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

the greatest and highest intelligence,-- the results of

the accumulated genius of man, operating through a
long course of ages, and at length` attaining some

thing like perfection,-- should disappear, and all the

results be lost? Surely these results must attach to

some other system, which belongs to a moral or in

tellectual scheme of things wholly different from the

physical, and which coincides with the views belong

ing   to Revelation.   highest  perfection  and aggre
      Or, is even the
   "

gated power of the human mind a mere nothing
compared with the immensity of intellectual com

binations belonging to the universal mind,-- a mere

image in a dream, in relation to the whole living and

acting universe? On all these subjects man is pro

fbundly ignorant; yetsome processes analogous to

creation seem to have been recent. New Holland,

for instance, contains races of animals found no where

else on the surface of the globe; and it is impossible

to believe either that they have been there from all
eternity, or that they have been carried there by

man."

               " POLITICAL REFLECTIONS , 1816.

   " It would be easy to show what science has done,

what she might do for statesmen, and what statesmen
have lost by not employing philosophers, rather than

empty-headed declaimers, and empty-pursed cadets
from the aristocracy.

    " Had there been one philosopher in the P. C.,
the expedition to Walcheren would not have been

undertaken. It required a mind as much in a fog

as * * * not to know that

the fogs of that country were pestilential at the season

       sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                 83

when the expedition was undertaken. Any philoso

pher would have warned government against the im

portation of corn, which is now weighing down the

country by a diminished circulation; and a tax upon fo-`

reign corn would have been preferred, not a maximum.

There would have been no notes and no bankrupt

cies. Any philosopher would have taught government.

the usefulness of the present coinage, and would have

advised them, instead of buying bullion by sinking

paper, to have taken six millions of paper from the

IfBank, as a proper bonus for the immense sums laid
out by that body upon the public.  coin was want

ing",  they should have obliged   the Bank to furnish it.
       Were a philosopher in the  cabinet, he could teach

ministers that a general want of money must be felt;

and that the general diminution of home consump

tion, as to every article of luxury, is the cause of the
increase of the poor, and the misery of all classes

which formerly supplied the consumer."

   " The national debt, at least that part of it in
curred during the last war, -- the greatest, the most

astonishing part,--was principally employed in excit
ing industry and ingenuity at home. The money

employed as subsidies must have been either raised

ultimately from the labour of the people of these

islands, or from produce sent to these islands, entered
as a debt, to be paid with interest; but the foreign

fundholders are very few: the debt then is princi
pally due for the labour of the British. England
does not produce gold and silver; therefore the pro
ductive labour which raised 500 millions must have
been enormous. The national debt called forth all

                                               G2

84' MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

the energies of ` ingenuity and industry. The gold

we sent abroad was purchased by labour; and we sent

abroad an immensequantity of produce, not of corn
Ior wine, but of manufactured articles; the produce
of our clays, our ores, and our wool.  am sure there

is gross ignorance on every thing respecting this

great question."

 ` " The timid politician is like the timid physician;
the one attempts, in every case, to meet the po

Ifpular feeling; the other prescribes for symptoms.
     a farmer neglect to cut his corn because there is

a cloud in the sky, he will never have a harvest. In
every kind of conduct general principles must be

adopted."

   " Every thing good in society has arisen from

gradual reform and progressive change. When the

leaves of the tree are blighted it kills the tree to

pluck them ofll Decaying leaves are better than no
leaves at all : they should be suffered to perform their
imperfect functions till they are thrown off by the

vigour,`of the young and healthy leaves."

   " The magnificence of a court, as long as funds

can be found, and as long as the money is entirely
expended in thecountry, is like brilliant sunshine;
which in spring and summer raises the sap, causes
to circulate, the leaves to sprout, and the fruit to
ripen; but in autumn, when the plant no longer
receives any nourishment from the soil, withers,
dries up, and destroyed."

  " To raise money in country, and spend that
is
                    a

                                        it

                                                                      .it

               _____---_mr-_g--`__--__L.,.-_s___..--_.n--l---l|._._I.rs..`.*:~=--...`--~-'""""  ,.  `
                                                                                                      ,1

                   sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                       85

money out of            like carrying off corn crops`from"ar
    it

                it,
                    is
soil,-- must soon become barren."

    " We hear the thunder, and unless we examine

into the cause of some great catastrophe may take
           ;
                    it,
us unawares we must inquire whether                from the
                                                it
heavens or the earth, --whether
                                                     is
                                                       it
                                                            is

                                                                       it a
                                                   caused by

tempest, which may soon be dissipated, or whether

is`the forerunner of a volcanic eruption, which may

deluge us with burning lava, not with transient rain,

and destroy for ever our wealth, our cities, and our

palaces."                                                        `

    " The friends of revolution do not, like powerful

spirits, ride on the whirlwind, and direct the storm             ' .;

they are generally the first victims of it. In em
deavouring to sap the foundations of the building,
they merely disturb some of the loose Gothic orna

ments, which fall on their heads, and destroy the in

termeddlers."      is is                                      -
                                .
aQ
                                             a
    " That there great distress and great discontent

  in the country,        at present truth universally ad

  mitted. Even those persons who are most disposed

  to hope and to see objects in sunshine, consider the

  present crisis not only as replete with difficulty and

  danger, but as leading to despair. There         a is   cloud
                                                       a
  hanging over us, and persons are as much divided in
  opinion with respect to the causes as to the conse

  quences of it. Some regard                    merely as summer
           a

                                            G

                                         3

                                       it it
                                               it
  cloud resulting from the sunshine of our peace;

  others, as winter cloud depending upon the chill

  of our taxation. Some expect to be dissipated in

    transient shower, and others hail as the forerunner

`86` MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or-'

              it,of a deluge which is to sweep away our harvest, and
                            ' itto destroy our habitations. In such a season it is

 natural to look to the government, not only for in
 formation, but for comfort; but the persons at the
 head of affairs seem as little able to afford the one
 as the other. They have indeed talked of the
 inconvenience resulting from a transition to peace
 from war, and the `ignorant impatience' of the
 people with regard to taxation; but such opinions,
 vague, unsatisfactory, and insolent, do not dissipate
 doubts, or awaken confidence. The peace they have
 given us may indeed be represented by an inverted
 and empty cornucopia, and the miserable are not
 likely to be soothed by being accused of impatience.

 To expect remedies from physicians who are igno
rant of the nature of the disease they undertake to

 Cure, is absurd. Nature, and a good constitution,
 might conquer the malady; but it is not likely that
natural means will be allowed, and the constitution
 has been already tampered with. The patient, under
 such circumstances, is right to find other physicians,
 or to give up physic altogether. On an occasion
.when those who ought to direct the public opinion
 seem unable to influence and when they irritate
 rather than soothe the public mind, becomes the

Ifduty of private individuals to lend their aid.

 the stranger who fell among thieves was not suc
 coured by his own people and race, he could not
 refuse the aid of the Samaritan."

    " Great proprietors and consumers consume in
 common years above an average quantity of produce,
 and therefore give premiums to agriculture; and in
 years of scarcity they diminish their consumption.

sra HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                       87

Their capital and their wants likewise excite to ex
cellence in manufactures, and give facility to labour
by exciting excellence. They keep the standard in

the inventions belonging to common life, and the ruder
arts as well as the more refined, higher. Could we

approach nearer to an equality, the comforts, i. e. the.

general mass of them in society, would be diminished.
The tendency of improvement is to elevate together all
the classes of society. Revolutionary systems, which

pretend to bring men nearer to an equality, may in
deed bring them nearer to a state of nature, but not

to a state of happiness. Unhappily, experience has

shown that its tendency is to make men savages, not

philosophers. It is like a contagious or destructive

fire, which consumes the crop; and not like a genial
light or heat, as of the sun, which nourishes and

ripens it."

   " An obvious effect of diminished circulation

that people who before were luxurious consumers
become frugal consumers."
it

                    is
                                                                                        is,
   " There this immense benefit in machinery, that

    carries on those operations which debase the mind

and injure the faculties. A man by constantly per

forming the same operations, becomes unfit for any

other. Machinery requires attention, intellectual.
exertion, and bodily labour of various kinds."

   With these reflections shall, for the present, con

clude the extracts. In relation to those of political

kind, should be kept in mind when they were writ
ten, at time of great national distress, in 1816, just
at the close of long period of extraordinary exertion

                                                   G
a it

                a

                I

                                            4
                                                                     a

88 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

and forced excitement--the conclusion of a longand
unparalleled war; when the storm, indeed, was over,
and the atmosphere was tranquil, but the agitation
and swell of the ocean continued. His reflections
may be worth preserving, as a record of this time;

and they may deserve, too, being kept, as showing,
at such a critical and diificult period, the opinions

of an individual free from all party bias, and who re
garded the then perplexing and anxious state of
things verymuch in the light of a problem to be

Solved.

I- In regard to the preceding extracts generally,

Imay remark, that have had a double object in pub

lishing them; partly for the sake of the sentiments
or information which are conveyed in them, with
out relation to their author; and partly and chiefly in
relation to him, as tending to develope his intellectual
character, his modes of thought and expression, and
peculiarities `of opinions and doctrines. For this
latter purpose they appear to me exceedingly well

adapted. All the extracts given may be considered

(as some of them are called) " common-places,"

views, opinions, and expressions, spontaneous pro
ductions of his mind at different times and on differ-`
ent occasions, and exhibiting the nature of his mind,

as the branches, leaves,` flowers, and fruit of a tree
showthe kind and quality of the particular tree to
which they belong. ` They display, it appears to me,
in a striking manner, the independence and elevation
of his mind, the extent and variety of his views, his

fervid imagination; and the poetical dress he delighted

to. clothe his ideas in; his powers of analogical rea

soning and illustration, his exalted ideas of the
nature of scientific glory,` of the objects of science,

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY

and of its important influence in society ;` and his no
less exalted views of the intellectual faculties of man,

and his aspirations and hopes after immortality. They
display, too, very remarkably, in conjunction with

such exaltation, a reserve or difiidence, and distrust

of human reason, and confession of its very limited

powers and comparative littleness, coupled with un
bounded faith in the power and beneficence of the

Supreme Intelligence. They contain the elements
o"fCaollnstohlaattioisnspecinuliTarraivneld,"ocetrsipneeciianllyhisrelalasttinwgortko,
                                                                                        the
                                                                                        the
Iinstinctive quality of religious and moral feeling.
trust no apology is necessary in amplifying somewhat

on this subject of such vast importance and interest,

not only as regarding the future but even the present
condition of man. He considered his religious views

very much in this light: he believed that the only
firm foundation of natural religion is instinctive feel-

ing; that there is a sense in regard to religion, as

there is in regard to colour, sound, tastes, or smells,

or as in regard to the propensity for society, and the
ties of kindred and family; that they who have the
taste or instinctive feeling will be religious, obeying

the impulse of their natures, and see a Supreme In

telligence governing the universe by fixed laws, and
will worship this Intelligence in its power and good

ness displayed in all the works of creation; whilst

those (if any such there be) who are destitute of the

feeling, can no more acquire a sentiment of religion

than a blind man can a notion of colours, or the deaf
of sounds, and that, consequently, like the brute ani

mal, their desires must be very much bounded by the
present, and will be low and grovelling,--no hopes

beyond the grave,--n0 aspirations after immortality,

90 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE 01-`

no fervent, however humble, longings after the per

fecting of their nature, the exaltation of intellect, the

purifying of sense, and, in brief, the acquirement of

a glorified nature, such as we imagine belongs to an
Igelic beings, and to the " spirits of the just made
perfect." How much more satisfactory,  may re

mark (at least as it appears to me), is this foundation
of natural religion as an instinctive feeling peculiar

to human nature, than the ordinary foundations which

are laid by human art, the best of which are liable to

cavil and objection, and to serious objection even on

the ground of fair reasoning! The analogy of design

is always adduced as one of the strongest arguments
of a Creative Intelligence and Divine First Cause.

Is this even satisfactory ? It appears to me not.

Granted that design indicates intelligence ; that a

watch is a proof of a maker; that the superior me

chanism of man points to a higher inventive power

and intelligence; are we to stop here ? May we not

go on with the process of analogical reasoning ad infini
tum, and ask, must not the mind which created man

and the universe, that small and this vast system of

wonderfiflly adapted parts, bear stronger marks even

of design and intelligence, and have been itself

created by a power and intellect as much above it as

it is above man and the universe, or as man is above

any of the works of his own hands ? Analogy may lead

to a probable conclusion, but never to a certain con

clusion ; it is speculative, shadowy, and uncertain,

neither compelling assent or conviction. Not so the

instinctive feeling. It is imperative and compulsive:

the brooding hen deprived of eggs will sit on pebbles ;

a people immersed in ignorance will worship idols, or

in a comparatively enlightened state inscribe an altar

SI"R. HUMPHRY DAVY.

to the " Unknown God," and so indulge their instinct

ive feelings of veneration and worship of a Supreme

Intelligence, ready with avidity, like Dionysius the
Areopagite, and the " woman named Damaris," to

receive the words of Paul, and transfer their beliefi

Iand veneration, and worship, to the living God.

Idwell on this topic the more earnestly, on account

of its deep interest, and because hope that a feel

ing which was evidence to such a mind as my bro

ther's may be satisfactory evidence to other minds.

In science he employed a severe logic, and pushed it
further than most of his contemporaries, and made

discoveries by so doing, almost as much as by follow

ing the guidance of analogies, sounding as he went, and

the more on his guard the greater the intricacies of the
passage and the danger of the unexplored seas. Had

he found that analogy would have aided him in his re

ligious researches, he would naturally have availed him

self of such a help, which he understood so well how

to use : had he found that abstract reasoning would

have conducted him to the object of his wishes, no

doubt he would have employed it; but finding his

belief or feeling on the subject of natural religion very

much stronger than analogical reasoning warranted,

or a severe logic permitted, he, probably, put them

-_ Iboth aside, and at once boldly and honestly declared,
    " This feeling which have is instinctive; it be

longs to my nature, and was intended for noble and

exalting purposes ;" and he associated with this feel

ing, and so strengthened  it,    conviction of the vast

                              a

superiority of instinct in its results, as witnessed in

the lower animals over reason as witnessed in the

operations of man, often so erring and delusive, and

often leading to such monstrous results. He asso

92 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

ciated it with the persuasion of the intellectual spi
ritual nature of man, and, consequently, of the im

perishable and immortal nature of his spiritual essence.

And he connected it with the belief that there are

Divine revelations, and that there is a Divine system
of religion adapted to all conditions of man, all states

of society, and all regions of the globe; and that this
religion is the Christian, which meets all the wants of

man, checks his bad passions, cherishes his good feel

ings, exercises a wholesome discipline over the mind,

requiring submission and belief, refining what is gross

and sensual and exalting what is spiritual, confirming

the natural longings after immortal life, and converting

the aspiration and hope of immortality into a glorious

certainty. He was always, on principle, averse and
hostile to a system of materialism. He considered it

neither congenial nor beneficial to our natures, or ca

pable of any satisfactory proof; and in very many

places he has expressed himself strongly on the sub
ject, and especially in his last work, " Consolations

in Travel." There seems, indeed, an absurdity

in an intellectual being, such as man, adopting a ma

Iterial system, and renouncing a spiritual or ideal
one.  do not understand how he can advance a

single step in this system; how he can explain a
single idea as relates to its origin. An idea, it must

be admitted, is not material; and to say that it is

produced by something unknown acting on some
thing unknown, is an abuse of language. How much

more satisfactory to the mind is the spiritual system!
Not degrading in its tendency, not arrogant in its doc
trines, not attempting to explain what is inexplicable;

but exalting, and expanding, and raising the mind

from earth to heaven, giving us fellowship with spi

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY

ritual beings, and extending the interests of this

globe--of this life to the universe, and to eternity.

It seems only necessary to compare the manner in

which the two opposite systems, the material, and the

spiritual or ideal one, or even the common system
combined of the two, have been received in the

world, to infer that the spiritual one is congenial and
acceptable to the mind, as the other is unsuitable
and repulsive. Men of the highest reach of genius,
of the quickest mental perception, most sound

judgment and scrutinizing intellect, have opposed

the purely material system; thatis  that the mind

                                         it is,

                                                          a is
                                                                      a

                                                                               a
the result of organisation, and that all material.
is
               aMankind, in general, have hadin abhorrence;

`it has never been maintained earnestly, excepting by

mere tyros in science, or long excepting by few

solitary individuals, much in the manner of paradox,
and on footing somewhat similar to that of the

hypothesis that vice  profitable and beneficial to

state, and deserving, for its own sake, of encourage

ment. Is the soul ever warmed or kindled by the

cold doctrines of materialism? When we read or

hear them announced, there ever involuntary as
                      is
                                                      is        test of
                                                             a
sent given, and approval? This, at least,

their unsuitableness to our natures. They are re

jected almost instinctively by every generous mind,
very much like the paradoxical notion of the beauty

and utility of vice. But reverse the experiment; try

the other doctrine, inculcating the spiritual essence           a
                                                                      a
and immortal being of man, and affections of re

sponsive kind will be roused in the soul; to use

beautiful expression of Bishop Berkeley's, "like

the tremblings of one lute, upon striking the unison

strings of another."

941 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

   The total neglect, of late years, of metaphysical

studies, or the peculiar direction which they have

Itaken, when they have been at all followed, in our

own country, has, apprehend, more than anything
else, favoured the germination of the system of
materialism, and especially the appeals which have

been made to common sense (vulgar sense), and
the perplexed speculations which have been in

-temperately engaged in respecting causation. Re

flecting on the apparently unprofitable nature of
metaphysical pursuits, how they have encouraged

paradoxes,_how they have shaken ordinary belief,
and have led from the ordinary ways of thought and
judgment, and have tended to introduce scepticism
and infidelity, it is not surprising that a distaste of

them should have been acquired; and that active

minds, throwing them aside, should have preferred
physical pursuits, the results of which are certain,

always interesting, and often useful. And being de
voted to the contemplation of natural phenomena,
neither is it surprising that they should forget, for a

while, mind, or be disposed, at first, to consider mind

in the same relations as they have been accustomed
to consider matter_merely an assemblage of proper
ties belonging to peculiar organisation. Thus show
ing that physical pursuits, exclusively followed, may
lead, by an opposite road, to a conclusion as repul
sive to our best feelings as the most vague and un

satisfactory metaphysical speculations; and proving
that both may be abused, and that they are never
more liable to abuse that when separated. Without

metaphysical inquiry we must remain ignorant of our
own powers of mind, and the boundaries of human

knowledge ; without physical investigation we must be

                 SIR HUMP]-IRY DAVY.               95

almost as much without the elements of thought as
of power over the elements. Conjoined, they mu

tually assist each other, and correct each other's

wayward tendencies : the one gives wings, as it were,

to the faculties, and the other weight, and regulates

their noblest exertion; and they together enable the

mind to attain the greatest elevation possible. At

the same time, when at this exalted height, by open

ing the unbounded scene of the universe, and giving

an impressive view of the mysteries of nature, they
excite a feeling of humility in regard to selfi of won
der and admiration in regard to the Eternal Mind,

and thus conduce to faith in the mysteries of a sys

tem of religion whose plan is divine, and its object

the salvation of man.
I shall close this chapter with a little poem, which,
I believe, was                                     of my
                 written during    this   period   cast of
brother's life.                          habitual
                 It displays the  same

thought as the preceding extracts in prose, and the

same sentiments relative to the spiritual nature of

man and his destinies : --

" The massy pillars of the earth,

       The inert rocks, the solid stones,
   Which give no power, no motion birth,

       Which are to Nature lifeless bones,

" Change slowly ; but their dust remains,

       And every atom, measured, weigh'd,

   Is whirl'd by blasts along the plains,

       Or in the fertile furrow laid.

" The drops that from the transient shower

       Fall in the noonday bright and clear,
   Or kindle beauty in the flower,

       Or waken freshness in the air:

" Nothing is lost; the etherial fire,
      Which from the farthest star descends,

    Through the immensity of space
       Its course by worlds attracted bends,

         MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

" To reach the earth ; the eternal laws

         Preserve one glorious wise design ;
    Order amidst confusion flows,

        And all the system is divine.

If" matter cannot be destroy'd,
  If The living mind can never die ;

         e'en creative when a.lloy'd,
        How sure its immortality !

fn Then think that intellectual light
        Thou loved'st on earth is burning still,

    Its lustre purer and more bright,
        Obscured no more by mortal will.

" All things most glorious on the earth,

        Tho' transient and short-lived they seem,
    Have yet a source of heavenly birth

       Immortal,--not a fleeting dream.

" The lovely changeful light of even,

        The fading gleams of morning skies,
    The evanescent tints of heaven,

        From the eternal sun arise."

          sra I-IUMPHRY DAVY.                  97

                        CHAPTER III.

HIS SECOND JOURNEY ON THE CONTINENIN -- NOTICES RESPECTING IT. --

OBSERVATIONS ON THE FORMATION OF MISTS.--EXTRACTS FROM HIS

JOURNAL OF AN EXCURSION INTO THE TYROL. -- VERSES WRITTEN

AT THE BATES OF LUCCA---EXPERIMENTS ON UNROLLING THE HER

CULANEUM MSS---FRAGMENT OF A DIALOGUE DESCRIPTIVE OF AN
ERUPTION OF VESUVIUS. --- HIS RESEARCHES AT \'ESUVIUS- --- OPINION

CONCERNING THE NATURE OF VOLCANIC ACTION.----NOTICE OF SIR

JOSEPH BANKS, WHOM HE SUCCEEDS AS PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL

SOCIETY.---PARTICULARS   OF HIM IN CONNECTION  WITH THIS APPOINT
                        ON THE OFFICE
MENT. -- OBSERVATIONS

0N the 26th May my brother quitted England, on

his second Continental journey: he passed through
Austrian Flanders into Germany, descended the Da
nube from Ratisbon, and arrived in Vienna about the

18th June. His progress thus far, as well as a short

excursion into Hungary, is briefly noticed in the fol

lowing letter :

                                                      " Vienna, 26th June.

   " MY DEAR Mornna,
" We made a very prosperous journey here, and

have had delightful weather.

  I" In Flanders had the satisfaction of knowing
Ithat have saved the lives of many miners by my

lamp of safety.
   " We shall remain in the Austrian States a few

weeks longer, and then go to Italy. Pray desire my

sisters to address a few lines to me, poste restante,

Venice.

voL. 11.                `H

98 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I" When a1n at Rome and at Naples we can easily
Icommunicate by way of Naples.
                                          prefer letters of

matter of fact and business to all others; and the har

vest, and the fisheries, and the health of my friends

are suflicient for a letter.

   " We receive great civilities here, both from the

government and the grandees.

   " With kindest remembrances and love to my sis

ters and my aunts,

           I" am, my dear Mother,

                     " Your very affectionate Son,
                                                      " H. DAVY.

  I" There is every prospect of a fine harvest on the

Continent. In Hungary, which have visited, they

have already begun to cut their rye."

` He set out from Vienna in the first week in July,
and passing through part of Hungary, proceeding

southward, he made various excursions in Stiria, Ca

rinthia, and Carniola. He was delighted with the

mountain, lake, and river scenery of these Alpine re

gions; and now formed an attachment to the country

which lasted during life, and more than once induced

him to revisit it.
  I"` know                                             " Consolations
             n"omcooruentbreya,"utihfuel  says in his  which may be
in Travel,"                                than that

called the Alpine country of Austria, including the

Alps of the Southern Tyrol, those of lllyria, the Noric

and the Julian Alps, and the Alps of Stiria and Salz
burg. The variety of the scenery, the verdure of the

meadows and trees, the depths of the valleys, the alti
tude of the mountains, the clearness and grandeur of

                                          think, decided supe
the rivers and lakes, give  iIt,

                                                 a

riority over Switzerland; and the people are far more

            sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                    99

agreeable. Various in their customs and manners,

Illyrians, Italians, or Germans, they have all the same
simplicity of character; and are all distinguished by

their love of their country, their devotion to their

Isovereign, the warmth and purity of their faith, their

honesty, and (with very few exceptions) may say
their great civility and courtesy to strangers."

As the hot season drew towards a close, he entered

Italy by the Friul, and visited Venice, having pre

viously made a little voyage in the Adriatic to Pola

in Istria.                       `

" We entered the harbour of Pola in a felucca,
Iwhen the sun was setting; and know no scene more

splendid than the amphitheatre seen from the sea in

this light. It appears not as a building in ruins, but

like a newly erected work; and the reflection of the

colours of its brilliant marble and beautiful forms,

seen upon the calm surface of the waters, gave to it a

double effect, _that of a glorious production of art

and ofa magnificent picture."
   This extract also is from his " Consolations in

Travel."

From Northern Italy he crossed the Appenines in

the beginning of October, and arrived in Rome about

Ithe 13th of that month.
      cannot find any notes preserved of this journey :
in his " Consolations in Travel" many allusions are

            all with the same unqualified feeling of
made to     it,
                              a
enjoyment; and in paper which he contributed to
the Royal Society, written soon after his arrival at
Rome, " On the Formation of Mists in particular Si

tuations," he incidentally mentions the course which

he pursued, in connection with his observations on

the phenomena which was his object to explain.
                                 it
                                 H
                                         2

100 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

   The " particular situations" were " over the beds
of rivers and lakes in calm and clear weather after

sunset," at the same time that dew is forming on the

meadows or groves which line their banks.
   His explanation is the following, founded on the

curious facts relative to the radiation of heat from

the earth into the etherial regions, and on the pecu
liarity of water being of greatest density at the tem

perature of about 40° : --
   "As soon as the sun has disappeared from any

part of the globe, the surface begins to lose heat by

radiation, and in greater proportions as the sky is
clearer: but the land and water are cooled by this
operation in a very different manner; the impression

of cooling on the land is limited to the surface, and
very slowly transmitted to the interior; whereas in

water above 4_<5° Fahrenheit, as soon as the upper
stratum is cooled, whether by radiation or evapor
ation, it sinks in the mass of fluid, and its place is
supplied by warmer water from below; and till the

temperature of the whole mass is reduced nearly to

40° Fahrenheit, the surface cannot be the coolest part.

It follows, therefore, that wherever water exists in

considerable masses, and has a temperature nearly
equal to that of the land, and above 445° Fahrenheit
at sunset, its surface during the night, in calm and

clear weather, will be warmer than that of the con
tiguous land, and the air above the land will be ne

cessarily colder than that above the water; and when

they both contain their due proportion of aqueous
vapour, and the situation of the ground is such as to

permit the cold air from the land to mix with the
warmer air above the water, mist or fog will be the
result, which will be so much the greater in quantity

           sra HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                            1011

as the land surrounding or enclosing the water isa

higher, the water deeper, and the temperature of theI it,
water, which will coincide with the quantity and        a
strength of vapour in the air above greater."*

   After avery short stay at Rome my brother visited

Naples, and began his researches on the Hercula

neum MSS. His first results were of very encou

raging kind, confirming the expectations which he

had previously formed from some trials which he

had instituted in England. In letter to his mother,

written on his return to Rome, dated February 25th,.

1819, he says:--
" We have been at Naples, and have been per
                                         of my journey." He
fectly  successful  in the   object      the time of my return
adds,               certain   about
        " am not
        I

to England. This will depend upon the determin

ation of our government respecting plan whichl
                                                              a

have sent them, connected with my success at Naples,

and which will probably bring me to England in the

summer."

    Contrary to the expectations thus expressed, he re
mained on the Continent. He spent the early part

of the summer in tour to his favourite regions in
the southern states of Austria. Of this tour, which
a

                    a it a

                           I
                                                             a
was rapid one, and chiefly undertaken for the sake
of fishing and shooting, he has left pretty copious
                                                                                                     `
journal, the greater part of which
                                                              shall insert.

He set out on from the baths of Lucca on the`

2Qnd of June, in caratella, and two post horses,

with his servant and his two dogs. By posting he
rapidly crossed the Appenines and the plain of
Lombardy. He quitted Italy by way of Verona.

           Philosophical Transactions, 1819.
                             H
           "
                                      3

102 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

On the 2fith he was at Roveredo, at the entrance of

the Tyrol.
   " 27th. --Went off this morning at six to the top

of the Lago di Garda, two posts ; the temperature at

Roveredo was 74° to 75°. After we had crossed the
Adige, it fell to 78° ; and there was a strong breeze
from the lake. Passed by the villa of Count Castro

barca, with a pretty lake surrounded by mountains,

and sending a small tributary stream to the Adige.
When we got upon the hill above this lake, the Lago

di Garda broke in upon us with great magnificence,

of a bright sapphire tint; and this tint, contrasted

with the red and dun colour of the limestone cliffs

     of the mountains above  on which white cloudsit,

                              I
                                    a it

                                            is I
                                                     is I a
were moving, gave great beauty and grandeur to the
scene. The river, which was one of my objects, was
turbid from the melting of the snow; but saw

number of the trouts taken in from forty to three

pounds. They are evidently trout having habits

     which lead them to feed in the lake, and then mount

     against the stream to spawn. They are all fat and
     silvery in their colour, and think the best fish
     ever tasted. The common trout, which brought

.    down from another river near Rivo, and which

    aexactly our river trout, ill fed, they call carpione.
     The trout of the Lago, and of the river which runs

     by Tubione, are like those of the Colne, and have

     har"dlTyhaenygesnpeotrsa.l geological aspect of the country inis
     the neighbourhood of the Lago di Garda, like thatis
     of Illyria; the same great masses of limestone, and

       similar stratification. The picturesque aspect not
     unlike; but here the olive and the vine clothe the sides
     of the hills, and tne chestnut and the oak rise to the

sm HUMPHRY DAV Y.                     108

tops of the mountains; and in Illyria, the` beech and

Ithe oak occupy the hills, and the pine is the tree of

the mountain. Rivo, think, would be amore agree

able place for summer than the baths of Lucca ; for

there are trout, coturni, pernice, galline, and the

great coc de Bois. Is this a fable of the host ? Yet,

Dal Armi told me they were found near Trent.
   " 28th. -- Passed rapidly through Trent ; saw Dal

Armi, who told me that the pitzardone was found in

the Tyrol, probably in the marshes above Trent, in

the end ofJuly and the beginning of August. Clouds

began to gather upon the mountains, and rain effectu

ally cooled the air, and prevented my newly repaired
wheels from taking fire. Got to Bolsano, and slept

at the Kaiser Krone, a tolerable inn. A thunder

storm kept me within doors. This is called an

Italian city, but its population is German ; not one
person out of ten speaks Italian.
                                   .

" Q9th. --Left Bolsano at seven; abeautiful morn

ing. Saw the clouds which remained, the remnants

of the storm, rising up the snowy crags and clifi's,

and pine-covered sides of the stern mountains. Passed

several torrents with some little difficulty: found the

`scenery near Brixen inferior to that close by Bolsano ;

but on leaving Brixen and taking the Carinthian road,

it became very grand. This branch of the Eisach

foams over rocks amongst green meadows and vine

yards; and a few chestnuts, and walnuts appear in

the green fields, and the dark pine is above. Slept

at a `genuine Tyrolese inn; civility, cleanliness, and

all the comforts of the best English country inn ;. all

I`the attendance by women. The postmaster, the

innkeeper, and, how know not in a country so

little travelled through, every thing seemed to be

H 41

104$ MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or
Iin order.
            suspect the country people make great
Iuse of these inns, for saw numerous parties eating

and drinking.

   " 30th. -- Slept at Silliane, after a very pleasant

day's journey ; ascended through meadows to the spot

where the waters part, and saw to the east the source

of the Drave, a beautiful limpid stream; and to the

west that of the Eisach. Above the Brunneken, the
mountains are very grand and bold, and immense

masses of snow covering them to their apparent

bases, so that they looked like the snowy Alps in
winter. The temperature of the air from 48° to 60°;
that of the Eisach, where it is a small stream, 52°.

Below the Brunneken a magnificent chain of moun

tains is seen to the south or the Italian side, and ac

`companied my view all the way to` Silliane, which is

on the banks of the Drave, a stream here containing

no hucho, but trout and grayling. These mountains

appear of granite, and excessively bold and pre

cipitous; very like the needles in the valley of Cha

mouni, and bearing almost the same relations to snow,

which lay in immense masses, even at their juncture

with the pine-covered hills.

  " July 1st. --A very fine day. In the morning the

thermometer at half-past six at 55°; it rose towards

two o'clock as high as 65°. Fished in the Drave and

the stream that joins it below Silliane, and caught

fourteen or sixteen trout and grayling. Observed that

the fish lay more in the still pools near the great river,
and in the divisions of the river in water meadows,

where they are not so liable to be carried ofl` by the
rapid torrent. The hucho does not rise so high as

this; the grayling were larger than the trout; one

near a pound. My host's son, who spoke Italian, and

a little French, did the honours of the house with

      sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                105

infinite civility; and the people in general seem an

excellent race, not interested, courteous in manner,

and   independent in character.         of  the night:

   "  2nd.--It rained in the beginning

thermometer at my window this morning at seven at

56°, and it rose to 60° in the sun. Left Silliane. My

bill amounted for the two days to ten florins*; and

including a bottle of Wurtzburg wine, two florins.
The valley of the Drave became warmer as we ap

Iproached Lientz ; the river was turbid from the rain

of last night; and in summer, was informed, is rarely

clear. Either the heat melts the snow, which occa

sions a flood, or the clouds bring rain. The town of
Lientz is near the confluence of the Drave with the

Isel; and the Isel is much the larger river of the

Itwo. It was more transparent than the Drave, but

had that blue milkiness which have always found
indicating a snowy origin. The little plain of Lientz,

surrounded by hills and mountains, is extremely rich,
and its temperature so much higher than that of the
valley above, that Indian corn ripens; and some rye

was already cut. The day was cloudy and showery,
yet the thermometer stood at 64°. The temperature of

the Isel, 54°. The prospect of bad weather induced me

Ito give up the idea of going to Heligoblate and to the

Glocknee ; and was informed that this was not the

season for the hucho, that they are found or caught only

Iin spring and autumn. saw none; and went to Over
Idranberg, where saw some large grayling in a little

stream of beautiful clearness tributary to the Drave.
The inn did not tempt me, nor the offer of showing

Ime some hares to shoot, made by the innkeeper; and

  went through the same kind of scenery to Griefl'en

      * The florin is equal to 2s. 4d. of our money.

106 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Iberg, where found a good inn, and had a hucho of

about two pounds and a half for dinner. It is like

an ill-fed trout, but has no spots; is much longer, and

perfectly silvery; its skin remarkably thick; its taste
hardly different from that of the trout; it did not
I Icalver much, but probably it was twenty-four hours
old. The hucho that eat at Gratz last year calvered

like salmon.  walked by the side of a beautiful

stream that rose up through a glen covered with

pines, and fell over rocks, making some fine cascades.

IThe valley here is well cultivated, extremely green,
and the haymaking going on.      tried in vain for

Ihucho; but seeing a landrail, and hearing some quails,
  brought down the dogs ; found the landrail, and shot

it, and shot two quails; but gave up the sport, for

Ithey were too young.                                   .
   " 4`th.--Came on to Saxenberg, where
                                                took a

twelve o'clock dinner,--soup, salad, and veal cutlets,

and Illyrian wine; expense, 1 florin 14+ kreuzers* for
myself and servant. Looked at the Muhl; a clear

`stream, with a little snowy milkiness, as large as the

Ischil. Saw no huchos. The scenery of the valley of
the M01 or Muhl is very fine, and bounded by snowy

mountains. Came on to Spital, and walked to the .

Mulhstadler see, from which a beautiful clear stream

joins the snow-tinted Lider, and makes its blueness

more transparent. The Mulhstadler see beautifully
clear, and commanding fine views of the snowy moun
tains of the valley of the Lider. The scenery about
Spital contains much of beauty and of grandeur.

Caught in a half hour, in the Mulhstadler river, ten

trout, some %lbs.; they did not cut red. Saw a
number of small perch in this river. German women.

* The kreuzer is equal to about  of our penny.

                sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                        107

Tyrolese Catholics. Lost my passport. Temperature

Ithis day from 75° to 80°.            slept. Tem

   " 5th.--Came on to Villach, where

perature in travelling from 80° to 86°; in the inn at

Villach, a large room, about 78° or 74?. In coming

down upon Villach, left the micaceous schist chain of

mountains, and had a fine view of the calcareous chain
of the Loikel, with Mount Craie rising above the
rest, snow still remaining in the hollows of its conical

summit; and to the west of  a it,the highest of this

boundary chain on the road to Tarvis rose in great

majesty, its limestone peaks covered with snow.

Drove to the Osiacher see, about three miles; ;Ia it apiece

of water of no great beauty, except when                was

brought in front of the great mountain chain          slow

stream issued from full of coarse fish, but saw no
it
trout. Barbel, roach or dace, in abundance.       I     did
  I
            itnot observe the goitre much in the valley of the Up

per Drave; but here, and on entering the valley of
the Muhl, becomes so common that every second

woman has it, at least those past twenty-eight. ` The

Carinthian women have fine arms, which they expose,

and fair hair.  once thought part of the Italian

character, their indifference to human life, depended

upon their constant familiarity with statues, images,

and pictures in which death and wounds are repre

sented; but in the Tyrol, wooden images of Christ

and the two thieves, as large as life, and with blood

and wounds in abundance, are constantly seen on the

roads; and yet this people  freest of all from the
a

                 I
                                         is
                                                                                        a
crime of assassination.  think the exposure of the

human body and face, as we see in Italy, at funerals,

has bad effect on the mind.--Temperature of

warm bath near Villach 84°.
   " 6th. --- Set out for Wurtzen at half past six. The

108 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

thermometer was already at 75", and it rose to 80"

and 82° on the road. Crossed the mountain-stream
which divides Carinthia from Carniola, and saw the

mountain which furnishes the molybdate of lead,--
an immense mass of yellow and red limestone. The
view in coming into the valley of the Save very fine.
Immense mountains of limestone, precipitous and rug

ged; pines reaching about two thirds up, and immense

masses of snow in the hollows. In coming within the
influence of the snow the thermometer fell to 78°.

IFound the inn tolerable, and the Save a fine trout

stream; so staid to fish, and to examine the source

of this beautiful water: caught eight trout, one of

them at least a pound. Found the temperature at

the bridge 60°. It rises about a quarter of a mile

Iabove Wurtzen, and must have a temperature about

50° or 52°; for had no thermometer. It gushes

forth from a number of small holes, and where it
first rises may be leaped across; but it soon enlarges,

and forms a beautiful clear lake surrounded by rushes,
and in which there are wooden houses for shooting
wild ducks at the time of their passage. The moun
tains round this place are very grand on all sides.
The road to Tarvis, and so on to Porteba and Udino,
only a post and a half off; so that it is easy to go
from this place to Udino in a day. The meadows
very green,--the hay making; heard no quails, but
some landrails, and my dog found one. The wild
ducks do not breed here, nor snipes ; but they migrate
here in the beginning of August. The common
language is Sclavonic. The whole chain of the Car

niola mountains on the side of Carinthia is distin

guished by its beeches; it rises to 3000 feet, or
4000 feet. Temperature, until two o'clock, 80°.
After, it became cloudy and the thermometer fell

                  srn HUMPHRY DAVY.  109

to 76°, to 74°, and at last to 70°; and in-doors, at ten,

it was 68°.

   " 7th. -- Temperature of the air on the road from

78° to 91°; generally 91° in the little close villages,

and from 84° to 86° on the road. The road from

Wurtzen to Ratmansdorf very beautiful; fine views

of the two chains of mountains, those of Carinthia,

the Loibel, and those of Carniola, having Mount

ITerglon for its highest point. That branch of the

Sava which followed down is called the Krainer

Sava; the other, which has its origin in the Wolk

shumersee, is called the Wolkein Sava. Went out

of the post road at Asling or Sava to go to Rat

Imansdorff. This is one of the most beautiful drives
  have seen. The plain between the two chains of
mountains is elevated on the side where it meets the

Carinthian mountains above the valley of the Save,

and is rich in pasture, with clumps or hedgerows
of trees,---walnuts, ash, elms, chestnuts, limes, and
beeches. ` It is
                  like  an English nobleman's park, with
an intermixture         corn, clover, and maize. There
                   of

is a fine cliff to the right topped by a picturesque
castle, and one range of broken hills, and four dis

tinct ranges of mountains; the last the bare and

snowy Terglon. Through the valley the Sava winds;

and the meeting of the two waters, the one bright

blue, the other sea-green, is distinctly seen. The

lowest hills have the same vegetation as the plain;

the next range, oak and beech; the third, pines; the

fourth, pines and bare rock; the fifth, without any
appearance of vegetation, cliffs of marble or masses `
of snow. By the sides, or upon the bases of the

hills, are seen beautiful villages, with white spires

rising amidst the trees. Man seems here capable of

110 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ienjoying life; animated nature is gay, and inanimate
nature beautiful and sublime.  was received at the

Ihouse of a shopkeeper who entertains strangers as
an innkeeper.  found the beds good, the Carniola;

wine excellent, and the cuisine not bad, and abun

dant. Two persons only in the village spoke Italian,

and a few German. My guides were Sclavonians;

Iand, except that could not understand them, very
Igood guides. fished this evening in the Sava; it was

exceedingly hot. Thermometer above 80° till nine
Io'clock.
           took nine small trout and grayling; the
Igrayling found excellent. Thermometer at twelve,

in my room, 72°; at six in the morning, 70°.

   " 8th.--Went in a caratella to see Maria see, a

lake about six miles off: the country of the same

kind, and views similar to those of yesterday; both

chains of mountains seen from the lake, which is

clear and beautiful, surrounded by cultivation. On

a small island, with a white church, and houses sur

Irounded by trees, the cliff and castle, which saw

yesterday in the distance, rise out of the lake as at

           I`have seen no small lake more beautiful;

it abounds in fish, the best of which are the waller
I(silurus glanis), and carp.
                               bought a waller of two
pounds for a twenty kreuzer piece. It is a fish very

like a barbot, but grows to an immense size; had

no back fin, but a small antenna instead, and has an

immense mouth. Temperature was from 80° to 90°

on the road, and is now in the shade at my open

window 87°. Returned by the Wolkhein Sava. The

views up the valley are very beautiful. By shutting

Ithe window have reduced the temperature to 76°.
I saw yesterday the May-fly, green and grey; but
Ithe fish did not seem to take them.
                                      have seen no

           sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                   111

Ifire-flies since left Bologna; none on the Veronese

Iroad, which travelled late. Is the season over, or

Idoes the neighbourhood of the Alps interfere ? Yet
  saw them at Domo D'Ossola, even in the end of

I IJun"eT(haebowuatlltehre
           24th or 25th).    (two  o'clock),  for
            have just eaten

Ihave adopted the habits of the country (twelve is the

dinner hour), and do not think it pre-eminent; very

like a whiting; softer than a barbot, but good and clean

tasted. The wine of Carniola is excellent, both here

and atAdelsburg and Planina; it is probably the same,
Ifor they call it " melsh," which presume means
Ijbreign.  got some " iron jbrte," cast iron, from
Sava, to ascertain if it be not an all.oy of silicum.
All the mountains here calcareous. Left Ratmans

dorff at two o'clock. The afternoon was intensely hot,

thermometer from 88° to. 93°. The views of the

Sava of the same kind as those about Ratmansdorff.

IAbout two miles before reached Kranburg, the

highest of the Carinthian chain of mountains came in

view; its sides still spotted with snow, and evidently
Ilimestone. It is on the right of the pass of Loibel
going into Carinthia.  saw fire-flies in great abund

ance ; they appeared less luminous than those of
I IItaly.
now am almost certain saw one in the
Ivalley of the Drave; think about Villach. Came
Ito a new inn at Laybach, Dettila's. At Kranburg

Icame upon the Sava at its confluence with the Zura.

These two rivers, when could not reach them, fixed

my imagination, and awakened the brightest visions

Iof the angler; within my power lost the appetite;
Iand was already tired of fishing for small fishes in
Ia burning sun, and saw no hucho. But human

life has its best part in pursuit, --- happy when its ob

112 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

jects are useful or innocent. Got to Adelsburg at

Inine o'clock ; the Chernitz see was full of water, so

that could not see the bocca. Between Laybach

and Loitch the heat was intense; the thermometer
I Arose to 97°, and was never below 92°.
                                             friendly

thunder storm came on whilst was at Loitch, and

the wind blew from the Alps; so that after three

o'clock it was tolerably cool.
   " 10th.--The same cool breeze continued. Came

Ito Wippach, where found a fine trout and grayling
Istream, and stopped. caught two grayling and seven

trout this evening. The trout averaged half apound

a piece, and one of the grayling must have been

Inearly two pounds. This stream rises from the

limestone rock, and, as was informed (for my
thermometer is broken), is 60° or 70° in temperature.

The country here is pretty, and a very neat clean

mn.
I" 11th.-- It was very hot ; but a breeze of wind at
nine o'clock induced me to try fly fishing.  hooked

four large trout and landed two; one must have been

above two pounds, and out very red. The May-fly

was on the water; and yesterday evening, the duncat,

the alder-fly, with May-flies, and all the insects known

Iin June and the beginning of July in England.

This is the best fishing stream have seen on the

Continent. There are stags and roes in the woods

Iabove, and caturni close to the town; but they are
very difficult to kill.  saw nearPlanina the river
which is supposed to empty the Urking see. It

issues, like many of the rivers of this country, from a

bed of limestone. The duncat was on the water this
Ievening, and an infinite variety of flies.
                                             began

fishing at five o'clock, and soon caught four very fine

              srn HUMPHRY nxvr.                       1 [3

trout above a pound apiece, and one above two
Ipounds.
              caught these with very large flies, the
Ipeacock-body and redwing; changed my fly to

the red hackle with orange body, and caught a gray

Iling and a trout of three quarters of a pound, and one
of half a pound, and one of one pound.                then

changed for the peacock harle, red hackle, and white

wing; and caught six noble graylings, all but one above

a pound, and one above two pounds. Altogether six

Iteen fish this day, and hooked a great many more ;

I Iby far the best day's fishing ever had in July.

saw a trout of at least six or seven pounds, but he

was in stagnant water. Heard this day, for the first
time, of a comet. The wine is excellent.

   " 1Qth.-- Came on to Gortzen, and received all

possible hospitality from the Comte de Thunn. It

was still hot, but a thunder storm in the evening re

duced the temperature considerably.      The views

upon the Sonzo are extremely beautiful ; wild moun

tains, with rich plain and valley scenery, and the
cultivation of Tuscany. The corn was cut, and the

ground ploughed up for a new crop, and the Indian
_corn higher
   " 13th.  than my head.   to  the  Count's  villa,  and
             Went this day

spent the day there; looked for game in vain in the
morning, but had some magnificent views of the coun

try from the heath and chestnut-clothed hills above

the villa: went out to fish after dinner, and caught a

trout immediately; but a thunder storm. came on,

with hailstones as big as nutmegs, and put an end to
Imy sport, or should probably have caught very
Ilarge trout in this magnificent river.
                                         saw one rise

Iof at least four pounds, last night ; but such a storm
   never saw before: the lightning was incessant, and
              I
VOL. II.

114' MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

it rained, hailed, then thundered, for at least three

hours."

On the 14.<th he left Gortzen, and, descending from

the mountains, hastened back to the baths of Lucca,

by Padua, Ferrara, Bologna, and Florence, where he
arrived at one o'clock in the morning of the 18th or

19th, and where his journal terminates.

The remainder of the summer and the beginning

of the autumn he passed at the baths ` of Lucca,

which, from their mountainous situation, afford a plea

sant, cool, and wholesome retreat from the heats and

malaria of the plains and valleys of Italy.                               .

The principal memorials of his sojourn at this beau-

tiful spot which occur in his note-books are of a
poetical nature, very similar to those outbreakings of

feeling, sentiment, and reflection, which have been
already given, relating to his first journey, and not

less forcibly expressing his love and admiration of
nature, the fervour of his conceptions, his sympathy

Iwith what is most affecting in the beauties of nature,

 and his lofty aspirations and imaginings.. do not
think it right to keep back these remains; and they

may be more interesting and acceptable, from having
been composed without any view of publication, and

from being, as most of them are, in an unfinished
` state : --

                    " TO THE FIRE-FLIES.
                                                " Baths of Lucca,
"                                                                  1819.
                    stars that flit along the glade !
         Ye moving
         Ye animated lamps that, 'midst the shade
         Of ancient chesnuts, and the lofty hills
         Of Lusignano, by the foaming rills

         That clothe the Serchio in the evening play !
         So bright your light, that in the unbroken ray

         Of the meridian moon it lovely shines.

         How gaily do ye pass beneath the vines

SIR I-IUMPHRY DAVY                                      115

Which clothe the nearest slopes! how thro' the groves

Of Lucca do ye dance ! The breeze that moves

Their silver leaves, a mountain zephyr's wing,

IHas brought you here to cheer our tardy spring.

Oft had seen ye 'midst thy orange bowers,
Parthenope! and where Velino pours
In thundering cataracts ; but ne'er before

So high upon the mountains, where ye soar
E'en in mid air, leaving those halcyon plains
`Vhere spring or summer everlasting reigns,
`Vhere flowers and fruit mature together grow,
To visit our rude peaks, where still the snow
Glitters e'en in the genial month of flowers.

But brightly do ye move in fiery showers,
Seen like the falling meteor from afar,
Or like the kindred of the erring star.
May not the stars themselves, in orbits whirl'd,
Be but a different animated world,
In which a high and lofty breath of life

Of worlds and insects calms the wakening strife,

Commands the elements, and bids them move

In animation to the voice of Love !"

(( Thou loveliest form of the celestial world,

   When in the circle of thy brightness
   Thou sheddest in the blue unclouded sky

  IAll thy meridian lustre ! in the north,

    Above the heath-clad mountains have seen

   Thy clear and mellow light ; and when the waves
  Of the Atlantic raised their foaming surge

   Against the eternal rocks, where fabled sleeps
   The last of western Titans,--- then, when young

   In mind, and light of heart, thy rays had power
   To solemnize and tune to thoughts sublime
   My vagrant spirit ; now, in these fair climes,

   Where in a purer and more balmy air,
   And in a sky whose tints of ether seem
   Giving a saint like glory to thy rays,
   Thy influence is e'en stronger in a heart
   Wearied, but not yet broken or subdued.

   Though many checquer'd years have pass'd away
   Since first the sense of beauty thrill'd my nerves,
   Yet still my heart is sensible to thee,
   As when it first received the flood of life
   In youth's full spring-tide ; and to me it seems

  As if thou wert a sister to my soul,

   An animated being, carrying on
   An intercourse of sweet and lofty thoughts,

                           I2

116 MEMOIRS/OF THE LIFE OF

              Wakening the slumbering powers of inspiration
            In their most secret founts of feeling hig ."

         " The tempest gather'd on thy verdant hills,
           0 Lusignano ! The azure southern sky

               Was dimm'd by fleeting mists. Soon the dark cloud
               Form'd more compact, and to the zenith rose ;
              The bright blue of the northern distance then,
             And all the mountains show'd their shaggy crests

            Of ancient chesnuts, dark and deep in shade.
              To the feverish flush of the meridian sun

               Succeeded quick a damp and sudden chill ;
              The lightning flash'd. At first, a feeble light,
               Scarce seen, even in the darkest part of heaven,
               Succeeded by low murmurings ; brighter gleam'd
               Each flash that follow'd, and now louder roar'd
              The thunder distant, but it soon became
               The loudest burst of heaven's artillery."

                                   " The whirlwind gone,

           A calm, a soothing freshness soon succeed.

               Thus in the mind springs new-born energy.

                 --__-Thoughts that were dead are roused,

             And all the purer being wakes again.
               The slime of foulness and impurity
               Are borne into the ocean deep of reason,
              And new creations dance upon its waves,
               E'en as they purify--a thousand forms
            Of beauty, and of goodness, and of grace.
               The intellectual soul, freshen'd by dew
               From heaven, enrich'd, is glad and green with life."

           `f Again that lovely lamp from half its orb
               Sends forth a mellow lustre, that pervades
               The eastern sky, and meets the rosy light

            Of the last sunbeams dying in the west.

               The mountains all above are clear and bright,
             Their giant forms distinctly visible,
               Crested with shaggy chesnuts, or erect,
               Bearing the helmed pine, or raising high
             Their marble columns crown'd with grassy slopes.
               From rock to rock the foaming Lima pours
             Full from the thunder storm, rapid, and strong,
             And turbid. Hush'd is the air in silence ;
             The smoke moves upwards, and its curling waves
               Stand like a tree above. E'en in my heart,
             By sickness weaken'd and by sorrow chil1'd,
               The balm of calmness seems to penetrate,---

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  . 117

IMild, soothing, genial in its influence.

Again feel a freshness, and a power,

As in my youthful days, and hopes and thoughts
Heroical and high ! The wasted frame

Soon in corporeal strength recruits itself,
And wounds the deepest heal ; so in the mind,
The dearth of objects and the loss of hope
Are in the end succeeded by some births

Of new creative faculties and powers,

Brought forth with pain, but, like a vigorous child,

Repaying by its beauty for the pang."

   In regard to the pursuit of science, this summer

Iappears to have been passed almost in inactivity. The

only inquiry that can find he engaged in was the

examination of an ochreous substance, which is pretty
abundantly deposited from the water of the hot baths
of Lucca. He communicated on the subject a short
paper to the Royal Academy of Sciences of Naples,
which was republished in the 19th vol. of the " An
nales de Chimie et de Physique." He found that
this substance consists of peroxide of iron and silica;

he supposes that it exists in solution at a high tem
perature in the interior of the earth, the iron in the
state of protoxide combined with the silica, which
acts the part of an acid; that they assume the solid
form, and are deposited together in consequence of
reduction of temperature, as the water cools in ap
proaching the surface, and the conversion of the pro
toxide into the peroxide by the absorption of oxygen;

and he offers the conjecture that ochres generally`
have probably a similar origin.

    On the approach of winter he returned to Rome,

from whence he again visited Naples, where he ar.
rived on the 1st of December, with the intention of
remaining two or three months, for the purpose of
completing the object of his journey.

                                       I3

118 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Both the results of his inquiries `relative to the

Herculaneum MSS. and the nature of volcanic action,

the two principal objects he had in view, he commu

nicated to the Royal Society in 1821 and 1897,

under the title of " Some Observations and Experi
                                                  Ruins of Hercula
ments   onantdhe"PaOpnyrtihefoPuhnednoimn etnhae
neum,"                                            of Volcanos." A

brief notice of each of these papers will suflice.

Contrary to the common opinion, he ascertained,

and proved in a satisfactory manner, that the MSS.

at Herculaneum had not suffered from fire, but firom

the slow and intimate action of their elements, by

which a change had been produced in them, in the

course of time, similar to that which has taken place
in the conversion of wood and vegetable matter into

Bovey coal and peat. The processes to which he
had recourse to aid in unfolding them were of a

chemical kind, chiefly founded on this change. They

consisted principally in the application of agents, as
Chlorine and ether, which have either the effect of

decomposing or dissolving the bituminous matter

formed, by which the leaves of the MSS. adhere, and
the employing of a graduated temperature.

These methods answered fully his expectations.

Whilst they had no injurious effect on the written
`character (the basis of the ink of the ancients being
charcoal), they promoted the separation of the leaves,

and greatly facilitated the manual operation. But
unfortunately they were of little avail, partly on ac
count of the ill-timed and unworthy jealousy of the
curators of the Museum, and partly owing to the

very injured state of the MSS. themselves, either pre

vious to their excavation, or subsequent, induced by

careless keeping, exposed to the action of the air, or
in consequence of the attempts of others to ascertain

.s1n HUMPHRY mwr.  119

their contents or to unfold them. From these un

foreseen circumstances the investigation has proved

more interesting to chemistry than to literature; as
displaying the effects of time, the changes and com

binations which may result from the elements of ve

getable matter acting on each other, and as tending

to illustrate some important phenomena in the eco
nomy of our globe, and how. effects very analogous

(I allude to those of carbonisation) may be produced

by causes totally different and opposite.

  IPrevious to mentioning the results of his observ

ations on the phenomena of volcanos, shall insert a
description of a volcano in activity, which occurs in
one of his unfinished dialogues. The speakers are
supposed to be on the summit of Vesuvius, waiting
the rising sun : --

'11" Arch.-It is now almost the time when we should

perceive the dawning of the eastern light; but from
those heavy clouds which obscure the whole of our

Ihorizon, and from the long-continued and dead still

ness of the mountain, suspect that we are on the

eve of some great change, and a storm, if not an

eruption, is approaching; so I.think it will be pru

dent for us to return to Naples. (The party return

to "NaPp.le--s.)It would have been too much to have ex

pected in twenty-four hours, and after so splendid a

sunset as we witnessed last evening, the re-appear

ance of that glorious luminary, under the same bril
liant and beautiful circumstances. But the storm

which you augured does not yet fall. There is a pe

culiar heat in the air; and the sea, though there is
no breath of wind, seems to roll waves almost as

                                 I

120          MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

black as pitch, from the reflection of the sky towards

     shore.

     A. --
Ithe"                felt at that moment a motion of
             Surely
the ground beneath me. And, hark! the bells of

the churches tinkle; it must have been the first shock

of an earthquake!
   " All. -- We felt it.
   " A. --Watch the mountain! See the pitchy cloud

on the top of it bursts open, and a column of flame,
and a jet of lava, and red-hot stones rise into the mid

dle heaven! The ground again shakes! and, lo! the
tremendous thunder of an eruption !
   " P.--Lo! the lava bursts from the top ! And watch

the skies filled with flame : a river of fire descends to
Ithe earth!
             give you joy, Archaaus, that the wish

you have so long indulged is gratified, and that you

will have an opportunity of examining and studying

the results of a volcanic eruption. But the lightning
now flashes from the thick clouds into the flame of

the volcano, and the thunders of the heavens respond,

as it were, to the noise of the subterraneous artillery ;

the rain falls in torrents, and a thick cloud, which,

from its extreme darkness and opacity, must contain

stones or dust, is approaching towards Naples! We
must wait for another day to make our visit to the

mountain; it would now be a service of danger to

attempt to approach it.

     " (Change of Scene --Thc Base of Vesuvius.)
   " A.--The violence of the explosion is now over.

IThough the clouds still cover the top of the moun

tain, yet think we can ascend to the spot whence

the lava issues as from a fountain. And what a mag
nificent sight is this river of fire, nearly half a mile in

length, and in some places fifty yards broad!

sm nummmr navr. `                      IQI

    " P.---It would be still more magnificent in the

night, when its high temperature would be more ap

parent, and when the dense white smoke rising
from it would appear like flame from the reflected

Ilight. The appearance of the lava does not cor

respondto what had expected to see. It appears

liquid only at its exit from the mountain; and, though
continually moving on, it soon loses its character of
a river of fire, and appears only a shapeless heap of

enormous slags, covered with ashes, and destroying
every thing it meets in its course.

   " A.--The fused lava soon cools, from the effects of

the atmosphere at the surface, and forms those large

masses of scoria; the liquid still moves on below,

being pressed forward by the new portions thrown
from the fountain. But in a dark night all these

masses would appear more or less luminous."

This description is not imaginary; it
a                                      believe,

                        is,Ia faithful account of one or two scenes which he wit

                                                                            ;nessed in the winter of 1819 and 1820, when the

mountain was even more active than in 18141 and 1815,

and more favourable for the inquiries he was anxious

to institute, relative to the powers on which volcanic

action depends. These inquiries were directed to

the hypothesis already detailed, which he advanced

after the discoveries he made in 1807 and 1808, that

the fixed alkalies and earths are inflammable bases

united to oxygen, and in their uncombined state pos
sessed of such powerful aflinity for oxygen as to be

capable of decomposing water. Many facts, previ

ously well known, in connection with active volca

noes, were not unfavourable to this hypothesis; some

negative sufiiciently confuting all former hypotheses

122 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE OF

others positive, as the nature of the matters ejected,.
the lava and cinders composed of the oxidated bases
of the earths and alkalies; and, as the almost general

fact, that water is concerned in volcanic eruptions.
   Now, were this hypothesis correct, it was probable

that conclusive proofs might be collected in care
fully examining the phenomena of an eruption and
its products; it might be expected that inflammable
air might be detected issuing from the volcano, or
rising in flame, or that some pure or uncombined al
kaline or earthy inflammable bases might be disco
vered entangled in the lava.* The results of his
inquiries directed to these points were negative. In
none of several instances in which he experimented
on lava, when freshly poured out, and in a liquid
ignited state, could he detect any traces of inflamma
ble matter. He expresses the results very briefly in

Ihis " Consolations in Travel." Referring to the hy

pothesis in question, he observes, " made many,
and some dangerous experiments, in the hope of con
firming this notion, but in vain."

   In the paper now under consideration, even after a

detail of his experiments, he continued rather favour
ably disposed to this hypothesis: wanting the deci

sive proofs, he supposes that the inflammable bases

may act, -- that the chemical changes may take place

  I" may add, that the absence of iron in its metallic state, amongst

the products of volcanos, so abundant oxidated in the first degree of
oxidation, is very unfavourable to the idea that large quantities of in
flammable gas are evolved in volcanic eruptions, or even disengaged.
Were this oxide acted on by hydrogen at a high temperature, what is
there which could prevent its decomposition P and if reduced, we might
expect to discover it in this state, at least occasionally, enveloped in and

protected by lava.

        ` sm numrnar mwx.                                            128

in immense excavations in the earth, of the exist

ence of which, under any active volcano of long

standing, little doubt can be entertained; and that

the bases there undergo complete combustion previous

to eruption, and the inflammable gas is either en

tirely or in great part consumed.
   He at the same time allows that a simpler ex

planation of volcanic fires may be given,--that of re
ferring them to the supposition of the nucleus of our

globe being in a liquid ignited state, and liable to

break out through the crust of solid matter which
envelopes it. To this simpler hypothesis he gave the
preference in his last work. In support of it he ob
serves, " There are distinct facts in favour of the idea,

that the interior of the globe has a higher temperature

than the surface. The heat increasing in mines the

deeper we penetrate, and the number of warm sources

which rise from great depths in almost all countries,

are certainly favourable to the idea. The opinion

that volcanos are owing to this general arid simple

        think, likewise more agreeable to the
cause,  is,I

                                  is ;
                                        is

                                I it
                                                        is
                                                                 is
                                                             it
analogies of things, than to suppose them depend

ent upon partial chemical changes; such as the
action of air and water upon the combustible bases of

the earths and alkalies though  extremely pro

bable that these substances may exist beneath the
surface, and may occasion some results of volcanic

fire."

This opinion, now,  the one which  best sup

ported by facts, and which most generally received;

but whether true or false we may never have in our

power to determine. Negative evidence 'can never

be satisfactory, and at present this hypothesis chiefly

rests on negative evidence; and say so advisedly,

124 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

taking into consideration the additional knowledge
that has been obtained by observations on the new

volcano which broke out in the summer of 1831 in

the Mediterranean.

   The subject of volcanic fire is altogether mysterious;
and it will probably remain a mysterious problem till
we are better acquainted with the nature of heat and
of the other imponderable or etherial agencies,--whe

ther they exist as distinct powers or substances, or are
merely modifications of some one subtle element or
influence. How the light of certain animals, as of the

fire-fly and glow-worm, and the innumerable tribes of

animalcules which inhabit the ocean, is produced; how
animal electricity, as that of the torpedo, gymnotus,
and silurus, is generated; how the sun and fixed stars
are for ever emitting heat and light ;--these are pro
blems, all equally unsolved. But being more in the

ordinary course of nature, they do not excite ordinary

curiosity and a desire to explain them, in the same de
gree as the fire of the volcano and the shock of the
earthquake, which are witnessed rarely and occur un
expectedly. Were the latter daily occurrences in every
country, they would excite as little attention as the

heat of our fires and the light of our lamps; had

every region its volcanic mountain, we should, like

Ithe inhabitants of Stromboli at present, as learned
Iwhen visited that remarkable islet, be alarmed only

when the mountain is still.

   It could hardly be supposed that my brother's mo

tives for modifying his views respecting the nature of
volcanic action, as above stated, and for giving up in
part a brilliant hypothesis, could be misinterpreted
and referred to an unworthy feeling; yet this, to my
surprise, has been done, and even by Dr. Charles

sm HUMPHRY mxvr.                                                  125

Daubeny, Professor of Chemistry in the University
of Oxford. This gentleman, in defending the hypo

thesis which he advocates, and which is precisely my

Ibrother's early hypothesis,  csoayms,pa"rinTgheSirauthoDriatvyy'osf

early views with his later,
Sir H. Davy may, conceive, on this occasion be

fairly pleaded against himself, and the weight of his
ipse dixit in the two latter years of his life be viewed

as counterbalanced by the contrary judgment he had

pronounced, apparently on the same evidence, at an

earlier period; neither is it inconsistent with what

we know of his character to suppose, that he should

have acquired a distaste for the theory in question

Iwhen he found it seized upon and illustrated by an

humble class of inquirers.""" This, would remark,

is neither generous nor just, nor even reasonable cri

ticism. It is not generous to assign to unworthy

motives a meritorious act; for so, surely, may be

viewed the relinquishing such an hypothesis by the
author of when he found not sufliciently sup

ported by facts. It not just, because not true, that
I
                    it,
                                         is
                                              it
he merely gave his ipse dixit against his early hypo

thesis: in my brother's observations on volcanos, as

have mentioned, he assigned his reasons for so

doing, consisting chiefly in want of the positive

evidence which he expected to have met with in

examining into the phenomena of active volcanos, pro
vided the chemical theory were true. And, least of

all, the criticism reasonable:                    almost absurd to
is

                                        it

                                                   is
                                                              by
suppose that my brother would relinquish his hypo

thesis because approved of and advocated                          others.

  ' " Remarks on Thermal Springs and their Connection    with Vol

canes," in Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, No. 28.

                MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE` OF

Dr. Daubeny might as well have fancied that he

would have changed his views respecting chlorine or

the metallic basis of the fixed alkalies, as soon as they
were " seized upon and illustrated by an humble class

of inquirers."
. My brother quitted Naples early in spring. In a
Iletter to my mother from Rome, of the 18th March,

he says, " John is, trust, now on his passage home

wards from Ceylon. We are so far on our return,
Iand hope in the autumn we shall meet from differ
Ient quarters of the world at Penzance.
                                         have
Ifinished with success, and much sooner than ex
Ipected, the objects for which came abroad. Lady

IDavy is not very well, and we are obliged to travel

slowly; but hope we shall be in London in the end

of May or beginning of June. We shall return by

the south of France; and if Grace should be so good

as towrite to me, she can address to me, poste restante,

Bourdeaux."

I~ On my arrival in England, on the 20th June,

had the satisfaction of meeting him; he had returned

a few days before.

   On the 19th June Sir Joseph Banks, who had been
so many years President of the Royal Society, died.
" He was a good-humoured and liberal man, free and

various in conversational power, a tolerable botanist,

and generally acquainted with natural history. He

had not much reading, and no profound information.

He was always ready to promote the objects of men
of science; but he required to be regarded as a pa

tron, and readily swallowed gross flattery. When he

gave anecdotes of his voyages he was very entertain

ing and unaffected. A courtier in character, he was

a warm friend to a good King. In his relations to

sm HUMPHRY nnvr.                            1%7

the Royal Society he was too personal, and made his
house a circle too like a court." *

   My brother immediately came forward as a candi

date for the ofiice thus rendered vacant ; the highest

of honour to which a man of science can aspire in
England. The dignity, no doubt, was attractive to

him. It was surely an honourable ambition to occupy

Ia place which had been filled by Newton. But this,
   believe, was not his principal motive. He con
ceived that his powers of usefulness would be in

creased; that he should be able to give an impulse
to science, and forward its advancement by example
and exhortation; and he flattered himself that he

might be able to prevail with the members of his

Majesty's' Government to afford to science some sub

stantial support, worthy of the cause and worthy of
the country, which to the resources of science had

hitherto contributed so little and had owed so much.

   Other candidates were spoken of at the same time,
and for two of them their friends canvassed to some

extent. The competition, however, was of short
duration. On the 80th of November, the day of
election of the ofiicers of the Society, there was a very
full attendance of the Fellows, on the rare occasion
of voting with open lists; the result of the ballot was
almost unanimous in favour of my brother, and he
was accordingly pronounced duly elected by Dr. Wol
laston, who was then acting President; and for seven

years afterwards he was successively re-elected with

Iout the least opposition.
      was with him the whole of the day of his first

election, and can record with pleasure how tranquilly

he passed it: in the morning he had no apprehension

* MS. Notices of Distinguished Characters.

128`  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

of failing of success, and in the afternoon he showed

no undue exultation in having obtained it. Before

going to the public dinner of the Society, held on
the anniversary of the election of its oflicers, he pre

pared an address, and the speeches it would be

required of him to make, as was always his custom

when he had to speak in public; for he held that

preparation was necessary to speak well. The dinner

was very crowdedly attended; and the manner in

which his speeches were received, for so grave a body,

was quite enthusiastic. On the first regular meeting

of the Society after St. Andrew's Day, on his taking

the chair, he delivered an address, `f On the Progress
and Objects of Science," in which was well displayed ,

his peculiar styleof poetical illustration, his compre
hensiveness of mind, and power of discrimination.

Without lowering other societies,` he upheld the

Royal Society as the elder brother, and its Transac

tions as the most proper place for the publication and

preserving of important discoveries in all the branches

of natural knowledge. He wished that as they had

been hitherto, so they should continue to be the re

cord of British science. The concluding part of this
address is so characteristic of the tone of his mind,

Iand of the views and hopes. he delighted to indulge

in, that shall transcribe it : --
   " Gentlemen, to conclude. Itrust in all our re

searches we shall be guided by that spirit of philo

sophy, awakened by our great masters, Bacon and

Newton; that sober and cautious method of in

Iductive reasoning, which is the germ of truth and
permanency in all the sciences.  trust that those

amongst us who are so fortunate as to kindle the

light of new discoveries will use them, not for the

purpose of dazzling the organs of our intellectual

          SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

vision, but rather to enlighten us, byshowing objects
in their true forms and colours; that our.philoso
phers will attach no importance to hypotheses, except

as leading to the research after facts, so as to be able

to discard or adopt them at pleasure, treating` them

rather as parts of the scaffolding of the building of

science than as belonging either to its foundations,
materials, or ornaments; that they will look, where

it be possible, to practical applications in science, --

not, however, forgetting the dignity of their pursuit,
the noblest end of which is to exalt the powers of the
human mind, and to increase the sphere of intellect
ual enjoyment, by enlarging our views of nature, and
of the power, wisdom, and goodness of the Author of

Nature.
   " Gentlemen, the Society has a right to expect

from those amongst its Fellows gifted with adequate

talents, who have not yet laboured for science, some

proofs of their zeal in promoting its progress; and it
will always consider the success of those who have

already been contributors to our volumes as a pledge

I Iof future labours.                shall be most
   " For myself, can only say, that

happy to give, in any way, my assistance, either by
advice or experiments, in promoting the progress of

discovery; and though your good opinion has, as it
were, honoured me with a rank similar to that of

general, .I shall always be happy to act as a private

soldier in the ranks of science.
   " Let us then labour together, and steadily endea

vour to gain, what are, perhaps, the noblest objects

of ambition--acquisitions which may be useful to

our fellow-creatures. `Let it inot be said that, at a
period when our empire was at its highest pitch of

vot. 11.  K

 180 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

                                               \

 `greatness, the sciences began to decline; let us ra
 ther hope that posterity will find in the Philosophical

 Transactions of our days, proofs that we were not
 unworthy of the times in which we lived."

     This discourse was published in 1827, with five

 others, which were successively delivered at the open
 ing of the winter session of the Society, when the

 award of its medals is decided by the President and

 Council, and these are presented to the individuals

 distinguished from the Chair. In delivering a

 discourse on these occasions, he merely persisted in

I`doing what his predecessors in oifice had before done;

.but he was, believe, the first President of the So

 ciety who noticed publicly the Fellows deceased
 during the year, and briefly described their character

 and merits as men of science. This he did not only

 to indulge his own kind feelings, and, as far as possi

ble, contribute to the rendering of just honours to
 deceased worth, but also for the purpose of keeping
 alive the spirit of philosophical inquiry, and the love
`of scientific glory, " and of kindling and perpetu
ating that flame of science which in the Royal So
 ciety ought to be undying." How he executed this

task may be seen in the published Discourses, which
were printed as they were delivered. They consti

tute good specimens of his style of oratory, and re
mind me forcibly of his lectures in the theatre of
{the Royal Institution; but the mere reader of them
will form but an imperfect idea of their effect when
`delivered on an occasion appropriate, in the tone of

``voice and animation which the occasion called forth,

'addressed to individuals honoured by the highest

marks of respect the Society can show, and to an

audience capable of appreciating the justness of every

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  131

remark; and in the instance of the eulogies`spoken
on lately deceased Fellows, sure of awakening kindred
sympathies, and the kind and tender recollections of
a large part of his audience. Whether they had any
effect beyond that of pleasing and moving the minds

Iof those to whom they were addressed, it is not easy

to say; but in their published state, would hope
that they may be permanently useful in the way he

intended, and tend to preserve the dignity of science,

and call generous minds to those excellent and ex
alted pursuits which, like every thing good, are their

own reward,~--- delight in action, please in contempla
tion and recollection, and in application are of the

highest utility.
~. The meetings of the Society this year were unu
sually well attended. Some of the Fellows who had
withdrawn during the time of Sir Joseph Banks, owing
to the angry contentions which took place in the
early period of his presiding, now resumed their at

tendance; and general harmony and apparent satisfac
tion prevailed amongst a body of men, so numerous,
and of such different tastes and pursuits in literature
and science, that it is too much to expect they will

consider their interests the same, or even the inter.
ests of science, and be for any length of time com
tented with any President. As it had been the
custom of former Presidents to observe a certain

state in all that related to their oflice, conceiving, no

doubt, that it helped to maintain its dignity and re

.spectability, my brother did not depart from their
example, and he continued to take the chair in a ful`l
court dress; to have the splendid mace of ofiice

placed on the table before him, and to sit covered.

    His predecessor had for many years an evening

                                           K2

13% MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

party at his own house, for the purpose of assembling
men of science, and affording them an opportunity of
meeting each other at a fixed time and place. My

brother continued this practice, changing only the
evening of the meeting from Sunday to Saturday ; the
former appearing objectionable. to some individuals,
and he preferring one to which no objection could

be made, especially of the serious kind, of interfering

with a day which should be set aside for devotional

Ipurposes. These evening parties were very similar

to those of Sir Joseph Banks; and as long as was
in England, they were crowdedly attended, and were
very agreeable, amusing, and useful. They brought
together, not merely men of science, but also literary

men, poets, artists, country gentlemen; and they

were very attractive to foreigners. The subjects of
interest of the day were there discussed, and curious

information obtained from the best sources, and

knowledge exchanged between individuals, as in a
great mart of trafiic, each giving and receiving ac
cording to his acquirements and wants. There the
physiologist and naturalist might collect curious par
ticulars from an African traveller, or Arctic navi

`gator, respecting many objects of his particular

inquiries, and give hints for further investigation, or
solve questions which might have perplexed the ori

ginal observers. An evening seldom occurred without

some novelty in art, science, or nature, being brought
forward---as the bones from the Kirkdale Cave, or` a

new chemical compound, or a magnetical expe
riment, or a recently discovered mineral, or some
 new instrument or apparatus; and a great zest was

given by the presence, as was generally the case, of

 the inventor or discoverer, who was always willing to

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                 133

offer explanation, and give detailed information to
those who were desirous of receiving it. And, more

over, a stimulus was thus imparted-- a freshyexcite-I
ment to the mind to continue and perfect useful in

vestigations; and aids were often given which greatly

contributed to the successful termination of scientific

labours.

In these parties the distinctions of society seemed

very much to be lost in the distinctions which science

and merit confer. Men of the highest rank in the

.country mingled with men without any claim to no
tice, excepting that high one of superior knowledge ;1

and it was a noble thing to see` how much more

Iattractive it was, and more honoured, than the highest
nobility destitute of this qualification.  remember

one evening, when the company was reduced to a

small number by the lateness of the hour, and those.
who remained had collected round the fire,` one of

Ithe party, believe it was Dr. Young, observed in
Iplayful remark, "Ah! perceive all here are doc
Itors:" and so it proved; there being two or three.

doctors of physic -- one, believe, of diviriity, and

three of civil laws ; `and of these last two were baro

nets, and one was an earl, who, though distinguished

for his high bearing on ordinary occasions, on this

occasion seemed pleased to be considered of the

same grade as the rest.

   At this time my brother resided in Lower Gros

venor Street, No. 28. ; and as long as he remained in

that house, he continued to give these weekly evening
.parties during the session of the Society. After

wards, when he removed to 26. Park Street, Gros

venor Square, in 18Q6, they were discontinued; and,

as a substitute, the library of the Royal Society in its

          K3

134 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

apartments, at Somerset House, was opened on Thurs`

day evenings, after the regular meeting was con

cluded, where the Fellows and visitors could converse

familiarly on matters of science. What were my

Ibrother's motives for giving up his evening parties

IWas never accurately informed, being abroad at the

time. conjecture that several circumstances, which

Iit is unnecessary to describe, influenced him on this
Occasion.  know that when he first became Presi

dent, he attached some importance to these social

meetings, and it was his wish to have made them as

agreeable as possible, and as attractive; and to have

opened the drawing-room to them, so that ladies
might not be excluded; but this he could not effect;

and perhaps it might have failed had it been at

tetnpted. The parties would probably have gained
less in gracefulness, ease, and vivacity, than they

would have lost in usefulness, zeal, and interest in

matters of science. It is to be feared that they would

have become fashionable assemblies, rather than sci

entific meetings. So long as his health permitted, he

continued to give the dinners which were expected
from him as President, to which were invited prin

cipally the working Fellows of the Society. The

plate which was used on these occasions was very

appropriate, consisting chiefly of honorary plate, and
principally of the handsome service which was pre
sented to him in 1817, by the great proprietors of
collieries in the North of England, for his discovery

of the safety lamp.

My brother commenced his Presidential duties

with ahigh sense of `their importance, and a sanguine
expectation and desire of promoting the interests of
the Royal Society and of Science. Whilst he was in

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  135

ofiice the reputation of the Society was certainly not

diminished, but was rather exalted ; the desire to be

long to itwas increased; its Transactions were scarcely

at any former time more original or interesting; and

Iat no former period was there more harmony in the

general body of the Fellows. And yet, believe, my
brother's expectations were not answered, and he

effected very much less than he wished. Govern

ment was lukewarm or indifferent in matters of sci

ence, and gave him no effectual support; when re.

quiring the aids of science, and of the Fellows of the

Royal Society, applying to him without hesitation,

and, when their objects were attained, forgetting the

services. It was his wish to have seen the Royal

Society an eflicient establishment for all the great

practical purposes of science, similar to the college

contemplated by Lord Bacon, and sketched in his
New Atlantis: having subordinate to it the Royal Ob

servatory at Greenwich, for astronomy ; the British

Museum, for natural history in its most extensive ac

ceptation ; and a laboratory founded for chemical

investigation, amply provided with all means requisite

for original inquiry, and extending the boundaries

Iand the resources of this most important national
science.  remember well his speaking to me more

than once onthe subject. He had even the idea of
raising the funds necessary for forming a laboratory by

subscription amongst the Fellows themselves, without
the aid of government ; and he probably would have

attempted this and some other plans for the advance

ment of science, had his health remained firm.

  IAs regarded satisfaction and pleasure to himself in

his oflicial situation, fear he was much disappointed,

and particularly latterly, when he was least able to

          K4

                MEMOIRS OF THE LlFE"OF

bear annoyances.` He had no idea of manoeuvering

or managing, and never shrank from responsibility.
On him` fell the odium of all measures which hurt the

feelings of individuals, whether in consequence of the
rejection of a paper`, which the author supposed was
worthy of a place in the Philosophical Transactions,
or the black-balling of a candidate, ambitious of be
coming a Fellow, and, of course, considering himself
deserving of that distinction. As no wound, perhaps,
rankles more and is more vexatious than that of per
sonal vanity, so no class of people are more harassing

and annoying than those thus offended ; and it is

from these that a President of the Royal Society is

most exposed to attacks, --persons commonly with
out any dignity of character, and generally without

real ability, and, consequently, feeble and irritable.

  I* When the above was written, believed that an inquirer, con
iftributing a paper to the Royal Society, was at liberty to withdraw

he thought proper--either if not satisfied with the decision of the
                                                        is
           it
                                                         I
               is                                                          it,
                           it,
Council respecting or from any other motive: but now am sorry to

find that      not so, and that every paper received    considered by

the oflicers of the Society as unconditionally offered, as having become
the property of the Society, and to be disposed of as the Council may
decide, independently of the wishes of the author. How long such
                                                        it

                                                             I

                                                                           a
                                                                                      a
regulation has existed know not. Some years ago,when was better
                I

                          ;

                        I

                                     it it
acquainted with`the Royal Society, if       did exist   was as          dead

letter, and was not acted on and, for the interests of science, and the

Ifcredit and quiet of the Society, wish were similarly considered now,
or, what would  be better, abrogated entirely.                  not                                con
sidered by the  Council fit for publication in       "a paper                                      why
                                                                      is

                                                                                it

                                                                                                  P
                                                the     Transactions,"
                                 to the writer of it, especially if he requests
should         not be returned
                satisfaction to  him to be informed by the Secretary that
It no
    is                                                                                             his

        is it
paper to be deposited in the archives of the Society, which is, virtually,
its sepulchre. He communicated
                                 for different pu.rpose,--for pub
                                 (I it
                                             a
lication and when we see how the Council of the Society constituted,
    ;                                                a
                                                                  is

                                                                               it
occasionally, as has happened of late years, without single distinguished
man in certain departments of science particularly allude to chemistry),

iscan any proceeding be more unjust, or, as before said, contrary to`the
interests of science? Dr. We1l's admirable Essay on Dew, and; as

   reported and believed by his countrymen, Franklin's Letters to Mr.

Collinson on Electricity, written for the Royal Society, were not allowed

             sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                        187

The`man of real ability or of true dignity would` be

above the Royal Society, and would not condescend

to resent any act of injustice towards him, supposing
the decision of the President and Council to be un

just. He has the world for his tribunal; and it is
only necessary for him to publish the results of his

inquiries, and he is sure to have justice done to him.

Another source of annoyance, belonging to the ofiice
ofPresident, is that of the perpetual interruption
of his leisure from applications by letter and person

ally, without end, respecting trifling inventions, sup
posed by their authors to be important discoveries,

`respecting patents and certificates for patents, and

about imaginary discoveries and schemes worthy

of Bedlam, and generally proposed by men of `un
sound, and often insane mind; To be thus de
prived of time, and to have attention and patience

wearied, must have been disagreeable to any man,

excepting of a trifling character, and to mybrother
it was particularly wearying, and it even interfered
with his own pursuits, and deprived him very much

to appear in the Philosophical Transactions: how deplorable it had

been if the rule now complained of had been then acted on to the sup

pression, or even to the occasioning any material delay in the publication,
of                                      advocates of
in  such important discoveries!   The                 the new rule,  perhaps,
    vindication may say that in  the "  Proceedings                  Society"
                                                      of the Royal

now printed, every paper read at the meetings of the Society is noticed,

and so brought before the public, even though not admitted into the
Transactions. The fact of the notice cannot be denied ; but in what

an unsatisfactory manner in some instances has this notice been made 1

a formal and empty outline, excluding all that was peculiar and new,

which gave value to the communication, as if intended for proof of

worthlessness. To render an account of a scientific paper may appear
an easy matter; to a. competent person it is so, who understands the

subject, and only to him, whose knowledge enables him to point out
what is original, and whose sense of right compels him to do justice to

the author.

138 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

of the leisure which he might have devoted to ori

ginal research. As an honorary situation, without
profit or emolument of any kind, but occasioning

considerable expense to the individual, a stranger to

the nature of its duties would suppose the oflice of

President of the Royal Society, for a man of science,

not only the most elevated but the most agreeable

possible. It undoubtedly should be so ; but it never

can be so, as long as pretension to knowledge, vanity,

and presumption, are more common (and they will

always be more intrusive) than real knowledge, mo
desty, and diffidence. The pleasures of office, and
pesapteiocnialalyndoifmhaogninoararyry--offtihcee,
                                                     are generally in antici
                                                    trials and troubles, real

and incessant. These are the rocks and glaciers, the

storms and torrents of the Alpine heights ; the other,
the rosy hues of reflected light, lost on near approach,

._to be seen only in the distance, at which all asper.

ities are invisible.

    sm HUMPHRY navr. ' 139

    CHAPTER IV.

II

\`\ LETTERS TO HIS BROTHER.----RESEARCHES ON ELECTRO-MAGNETISM-_
           LETTER TO HIS MOTHER.---EXTRACT FROM NOTE-BOOK EXPRESSIVE OF
           STATE OF MIND.--FURTHER `RESEARCHES ON ELECTRO-MAGNETISM.----

    NEXOCMUERNSAIONEXTHOIBIIRTEEDLANIDN.--VEACXUPOE.R--IMEHNITSS     ON  THE ELECTRICAL PHE..
                                                                  LAST   VISIT TO HIS NATIVE

       PLACE. ---- LETTER TO HIS FRIEND MR. POOLE.--`RESEARCHES ON THE
    ` HFLISUIDBSROTINHERTHEFROCMAVSITCIOESTLAONFD-C--RVYESRTSAELSLINEENTMITILNEEDRAL"ST.-H--E-LEEATGTLEERS."---TO;

    A NEW PHENOMENON OF ELECTRO-MAGNETISM---HIS                          SUGGESTION TO

    MR. FARADAY, WHICH LED TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE LIQUEFACTION

    OF MANY OF THE GASES.---PROPOSAL FOR THEIR APPLICATION AS

    -MECHANICAL POWERS----HIS RIGHTS ON THE SUBJECT VINDICATED.

    LETTER TO MR. EDMUND DAVY FROM SCOTLAND-----LETTER TO HIS

    BROTHER.----VERSES ON LORD BYRON WHILST LIVING.----VERSES ON
    HIM AFTER HIS DEATH.`--VERSES WRITTEN AT ASHBURNHALL                 `

To return to the narrative previous to his election

as President to the Royal Society. After spending

Iabout a fortnight with my brother in London, left

him to go into Cornwall on a visit to my mother;

Ithe affairs of the Society detained him in town some

time longer. The following letter had from him

on his way to Scotland : --

                                                     " Nottingham, August 6.

       " MY DEAR Jonn,

  I" am much obliged to you for your letter from
IPenzance, and am happy to hear so good an ac

cou"ntProafymayddmreostsheyro. ur next letter to me under cover
to William Rose, Esq., Clerk to the House of Lords,
Melrose, N. B. We are travelling together.

140 nrnuoms or THE LIFE or

I" shall be very glad to learn what is the tempe

Irature of the surface Iof the water in a deep mine
full of water.  wrote to you from Cobham, stating

Ithat the Duke of Sormerset has declined the con
test for the chair of the R. S.   hardly think that

Iany"new claimant will appear.    fresh  air  upon the
        am going to breathe some
I Imoors, and think cannot be so near the Tweed

without wetting my line in it.

   " You probably will be now employed upon your
work on the Island of Ceylon. ' The more you give

`of personal narrative the better. Men read with

pleasure adventures in foreign countries, because it

is impossible to anticipate moral circumstances;

whereas philosophical principles, and facts depending

upon general laws, may be calculated on in all

climates.  With love to my mother and sisters,

              I" am, my dear John,
" Always your affectionate Brother and Friend,
                                         " H. Davr."

The next letter was written in returning: --

   " MY DEAR Baornna,              " Rokeby, Sept. 28.
" Many thanks.`for your letter.   Pray endeavour
to ascertain the depth of water in the Cornish

mines youtried, and the temperature at the surface
as it gets colder. This, and the temperature at the

bottom, will offer decided evidence as to whether

there is any source of heat below. If, for instance,
when the`atmosphere is 82° there should be a great

difference between the temperature of a mine 100

           sm HUMPHRY nsvr.                                   7141

feet deep . andone 1000 feet`deep, the fact would be

decisive.                                                     .
" I.shall be in town about the 15th October.

Pray address your next letter to me there. . As all op

Iposition to my election is at an end, am in no
Ianxiety to return to London, and shall take holi
Idays while may. Pray remember me with all

Idutiesand "affecatmio,nsmytodmeayr  relations  and friends.

                                     John,
           V " Very sincerely yours,
                                                " H. DAvY."

   The observations which Imade on the tempera
ture of mines which had been forsaken, and were
full of water, according to my brother's request in

this last letter, were rather in opposition to the idea

Ithat there is an internal source of heat ; and, keeping

them in recollection, cannot help feeling some little

doubt relative to the truth of this hypothesis ; and to
the correctness of what isnow generally considered
as an established fact, that the temperature of the

`earth invariably increases with its depth, or from its
circumference towards its centre. May it not be

-asked, in accordance with this view, why are not all

springs hot springs? Why is the temperature of
water at the bottom of very deep lakes generally,
and of the ocean `at great depths even within the

`tropics, about 40° Fahrenheit ? Further inquiry may

afford answers to such questions not inconsistent
.with the hypothesis; but, till this inquiry has been
made, and the answers given, it may not be amiss to

indulge some degree of scepticism on a subject of

such great importance in its theoretical bearings,

and confessedly enveloped in much mystery.'F

    "` There is a striking passage in Gilbert's posthumous work already
referred to, expressing .his opinion of the temperature of the earth, when

14% MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

It was his intention this autumn to havepaid his

Ifriends in Cornwall a visit. When expecting his
arrival at Penzance,  received from him the follow
ing letter : --

" MY DEAR Jonn,                  " Grosvenor Street, Oct. 19.

   " `I had intended to leave town for Cornwall to

Imorrow ; but have been caught by an inquiry of the
I Igreatest importance, and till can conclude cannot
                          `
Istir.`
   "     have ascertained (repeating some vague experi

ments of (Ersted's) that the voltaic pile is a powerful

-magnet; i. e. that by the union of the + and
Ielectricities, magnetism is produced in the same com
binations as heat.    am deeply occupied with this,

which promises to explain so much for the theory of
Ithe earth: do not say anything on the subject.
                                                                           4
hope in two or three days to be able to give you the

whole details, of which you will immediately perceive

the importance. Faraday has discovered a combin
ation of chlorine and charcoal.
" Sir E. Home has made out the use of the pigmen
I I`turn nigrum. write from the table where am mag
If I I I.ne"tising.
             rejoice your book is so far advanced.  will
         can conclude my labours by the 24th,
Ifcome down before the session of the R. S.
                                                    not,

opposing a notion of that time : --- "' Quid teinpus perderem probando
elementum ignis undique juxta Lunte sphaeram non esse? Contrarium
a nulla pendet ratiore, rnagnoque sensns nostri judicio id falsum esse
persuaderi potest. Ut neque altiora a tellure, calidiora leviorave sunt;

.nam, a superioribus locis nubes et grandies decidunt, frigusque perpe
tuum est in altissimis montibus, in minus altis minus frigus, qui tamen
frigidiores sunt quam planities: et planities convallesque frigidiores

sunt interioribus terrae partibus, in quibus nec glacies, nee pruina, sed
tepores, calores, etiam et incendia."--Op. Cit. p.21.

               sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                 143

we shall meet about the 25th, for you must come to

Itown to assist in putting me into the chair.
                      " am, my dear John,
                                  " Very sincerely,
               " Your affectionate Friend and Brother,
                                                     " H. DAVY."

   The knowledge of the experiments of M. (Ersted,

Ialluded to in the preceding letter, he obtained, be

Ilieve, at second-hand by a letter from a friend at
Geneva.        mention this to explain his applying the

epithet vague to them, which he would not have used,

had he then been acquainted with the original notice

by which the discovery of the Danish philosopher

was communicated to the scientific world. This dis

covery, in its consequences hardly inferior to the

great discoveries in electricity which have immor

talized the names of Franklin and Volta, was very

simple in its nature ; viz., that when the extremities of

a voltaic pile or battery are united by a perfect con

.ductor, as a metallic wire, and the compass is brought

it,near the needle attracted by the wire, and may
     it,       is
be made to deviate from its natural direction.it,

This leading fact my brother immediately verified;

and, reasoning upon he inferred that the uniting

wire itself, during the passage of the electricity

through        must have become magnetic, which was

confirmed by experiment. He found that attracted
                                 it

powerfully iron filings, like magnet; and further,a

that if the battery was divided, and the separate

parts were joined by wires, each wire had the same

`power; whence the expression in his letter, that the

battery  is    powerful magnet. He did not stop here:
            a

guided by the same process of analogical reason
ing, he formed permanent magnets by means of vol

144 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

taic electricity; and finding that the magnetising
power of the voltaic battery, like its heating power,
is proportional to the quantity. of electricity transmit
ted, it occurred to him that it would also be ex

hibited by common electricity, when accumulated
in the Leyden battery, which, on trial, proved to be
the case. Lastly, speculating on the facts which he
had ascertained, he conjectured that the magnetism

of the earth may be owing to electricity; and the
variations of the needle to the alterations in the elec
trical currents of the earth, in consequence of its

motions, internal chemical changes, or its relations to
solar heat; and that the auroras at the poles may
depend on the same cause.

    These facts and speculations he brought forward
in his first communication on the subject to the
Royal Society, dated November 12., with a sugges

tion of practical application for making powerful
magnets, by attaching bars of steel transversely to
lightning conductors)`

  IHis speculations he merely offered as conjectures,

though, believe, he was tolerably convinced they
were true; as has since been almost demonstrated in
regard to the most important of them. This convic

I Ition he expresses in a letter to me, written the day

after his paper was read: he says, " think have
nearly a direct proof that the magnetism of the earth
depends on electricity." And in his paper he ob

serves,` " This is evident, that if strong electrical

currents be supposed to follow the apparent course

of the sun, the magnetism of the earth ought to be
such as it is found to be." Relative to the nature

of magnetism he did not venture to give an opinion,

                                 " Phil.. Trans. for 1821.

                sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                                           14~5

excepting so far as to express doubt of magnetism

and electricity being identical, founded on remark-`

able difference of qualities exhibited by them; such as
the magnetic influence of the voltaic and of the.Ley

den battery passing equally through conductors and
nonconductors` of electricity, and producing its' ef

fects at a considerable distance with the same readi

ness `through air and water, glass, mica, or` metals.

IHe attempted to produce chemical effects. by mag
netism; but, as he states, without success.  men

tion this to show the extended and rapid view he
took of the subject, and with what facility he applied
himself to the interrogation of nature.

   The following letter was written shortly after his
election, expressing his `feelings on the death of a

near relation, his mother's sister (after a severe and
lingering illness), and his sentiments in relation to

his elevated appointment; andenclosing a bank note

of 101., which it was his custom to send to be distri
buted in little Christmas presents: --                                                                                     `

" MY DEAR MOTHER,                            " Dec. 22.

I" My sister's letter of this morning gave me very
sincere grief.  had long been afraid that my aunt

Millett would not recover; but, from John's account,
I still had hopes of seeing her again. Alas! these
Ihopes are gone; but
                      trust that excellent and

worthy woman is enjoying a more perfect state of

happiness than belongs to this chequered and uncer

tainlife.

  I" beg you will give my kindest love to. my aunt

Sampson, and express my deep. concern at her ill
                'I*
ness.                                   =X=$i=

   VOL. II.     `                  L
                                                                  =|i=
                                                                                                                      >X=

146 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

  I I" shall `enclose a 10l. note, which beg you will

lay out in the way you think best, for my sister's

Ichildren, and any oldpensioners that knew me in youth

remaining; but believe they are all gone down

Ithe stream of time.

   " thank you for your congratulations on my

Ielection to the highest situation a scientific man can

fill. hope it will increase my means of being use
fhl to my fellow creatures and my country. With

Ikind love to my sisters,

                           " am, my dear Mother,
                    " Very sincerely, your affectionate

                                                    " H. DAVY."

I am tempted to give an extract from one of his

note books, in which he has committed to writing,

with strong expression, the feelings of his mind,

marking the same religious tone as the preceding

letter, and desire to be useful, accompanied with a

fervour of thankfulness for benefits received, and a

Isubmission ofself`, which  could only   be expressed
                shall copy  what he has  written down
" in secret."

verbatim:--

  I" It is now eleven years since have written any
Ithing in this book; take it up again, February 17.

I I1821. have gained much since that period, and

Ihave lost something; yet am thankful to Infinite
IWisdom for blessings and benefits; and bow with

reverence beneath his chastisements, which have

been always in mercy. May every year make me

better, -- more useful, --less selfish, _and more de

voted to the cause of humanity and science!"
   This winter, and the following spring, much of his

time was necessarily occupied in his new duties of

               sra HUMPHRY navr.               147

President of the Royal Society. He still continued,

however, to work in the laboratory ; and at the last

meeting of the Society in July, which closed the ses
sion, another paper of his was read, entitled, " Farther

Researches on the Magnetic Phenomena produced

by Electricity, with some New Experiments on the
Properties of Electrified Bodies in their Relations to

Conducting Powers and Temperature."*

This paper is a happy instance of inductive research

and of the progress of an inquiry from fact to prin

Iciple, and from principle to new facts of a very mar
vellous kind.  shall give a few instances only in

illustration, relating chiefly to the conducting power
of metals.

     He found this power in different metals to differ
 much more than he had expected. " Thus, six inches
` of silver wire of 1;}, discharged the whole of the elec

tricity of sixty-five pair of plates of zinc and double`

copper, made active by a mixture of about one part

of nitric acid of commerce and fifteen parts of water ;

six inches of copper wire of the same diameter
discharged the electricity of fifty-six pair of the

same combinations; six inches of tin of the same

diameter carried off that of twelve only; the same

quantity of wire of platinum that of eleven, and of

iron that of nine."                         .  ..          .

He found " the higher the intensity of the elec

tricity, the less difliculty it had in passing through`

bad conductors ;" which was displayed in several re.
markable phenomena. " Thus, in a battery where

the quantity of the electricity is very great and the

intensity very low, such as one composed of plates

of zinc and copper so arranged as to act only as

                     "= Phil. Trans. 1821.

                     L2

148`                MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

single plates of from twenty to thirty feet of surface,

and charged by a weak mixture of acid and water,

charcoal made to touch only a few points is almost as

much an insulating body as water, and cannot be

ignited; nor can wires of platinum be heated when

their diameter is less than £6 of an inch, and their

length three or four feet; and a foot of platinum
wire of ab is scarcely heated by such a battery, whilst
the same length of silver wire of the same diameter is

made red hot, and the same lengths of thicker wires
of platinum intensely heated."

   He found that the conducting power of metallic bo

dies is lower, in some inverse ratio, as the temperature
is higher. This was the most remarkable general'
result of his inquiries; the effects, he observes, must

appear almost impossible till they are witnessed.
   " Thus, let a fine wire of platinum of four or five

inches in length be placed in avoltaic circuit, so that

the electricity passing through it may heat the whole
of it to redness, and let the flame ofa spirit-lamp be
applied to any part of so as to heat that part toa it,
whiteness; the rest of the wire will instantly become
                                       a
cooled below        the point  of  visible ignition.    let  a                   `
                    converse   of          itthe experiment,   a
   " For the                                                      piece
                                                 is
of ice, or stream of cold air, be applied to part of
the wire; the other parts will immediately become.is
        is is
much hotter, and from red will rise to white heat.
                 a                                   a

The quantity of electricity that can pass through that
part of the wire submitted to the changes of temper

ature so much smaller when                           hot than when  it

   cold, that the absolute temperature of the whole     it,
wire diminished by heatingapart of and vice

versa increased by cooling part of it."

Lastly, he found that the generation of heat by

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY-                               14$

electricity, in the instance of the metals, is nearly

inversely as their conducting powers. Onestriking

example   may be given  in illustration, both  for  its  own
sake and  the comment
                        made on it: --
If" a chain be made of wire of platinum and silver,

in alternate links soldered together, the silver wire
being four or five times the diameter of the platinum,

and placed in a powerful voltaic circuit, the silver

links are not sensibly heated, whilst all those of the
platinum become intensely and equally ignited." He
Ifremarks, " This is an important experiment for in.
vestigating the nature of heat.  heat be supposed

a substance, it cannot be imagined to be expelled
from the platinum, because an unlimited quantity

may be generated from the same platinum; i. e. as

long as the electricity is excited, or as often as it is
renewed. Or, if it be supposed to be identical with,

or an element of electricity, it ought to bear some

relation to its quantity, and might be expected to be

the same in every`part of the chain, or greatest in

those parts nearest the battery."

 . Immediately after the closing of the Royal Society

he left town to make afishing excursion in Ireland, and
revisit some of his favourite haunts in Zthat country,
which he told me he never entered without feeling his

spirits .rise,partly, no doubt, from the kindness of

heart which he always experienced there, and partly

Ifrom the original and diverting manner of the people.

      had the pleasure of accompanying him sufiiciently
far to see his remark verified. We set out the day;
before the coronation of his late Majesty, and spent

the day of that splendid ceremony, which all the

world was crowding to see, on the quiet and beautiful
banks of Cotton's "beloved Dove." From thence

                        L3

150  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE 01-`

we travelled without stop to Port Patrick, and crossed  --__-_

to Donaghadee, with the hope (which was not realised,   __.__

in consequence of the heat and dryness of the wea
ther) of having some good salmon fishing in the Bush
and the Bahn, two of the best salmon rivers in the
north of Ireland. At Colerain we parted: he to

Ipursue his tour in Ireland and the west of Scotland;

and to return to England, after having had the gra
tification of seeing, in company with him, that marvel
of nature and problem in geology, the Giant's Cause
way, which in his " Salmonia" he holds out as a re

compense for anglers whom, like ourselves, the Bush
may disappoint. " Should sport fail (he observes), the
celebrated Giant's Causeway is within a mile of its
mouth, and furnishes to the lovers of natural beauty

or of geological research almost inexhaustible sources
of interest."

   On his return to town in the latter part of autumn,

his most favourite time for scientific investigation,
after the refreshment of air and exercise, and the

agreeable relaxation of a country life, he entered

upon an inquiry, which he hoped might aid in the
development of the nature of the imponderable sub
stances or energies of matter. The results he gave to

the Royal Society in a paper which was read on the

29th of December, entitled " ()n the Electrical

Phenomena exhibited in Vacuo."

  IBut before state what the results he obtained
Iwere (and shall mention them only in the most ge

neral manner), it may be right to give some of his
introductory remarks, as they convey a lively idea of
the present imperfect and unsettled state of our

knowledge on the subjects to which they relate.

   He begins with observing --" The production of

                  sm iruurnnr DAVY.               1511

heat and light by electrical discharges; the manner in

which chemical attractions are produced, destroyed, or

modified, by changes in the electrical states of bodies;
and the late important discovery of the connection

of magnetism with electricity_ have opened an exten

sive field of inquiry in physical science, and have ren

dered investigations concerning the nature of elec

tricity, and the laws by which it is governed, and the

properties that it communicates to bodies, much more

interesting than at any former period of the history
of philosophy."
                  --"  Is  electricity a subtile  elastic
   Helcontinuesz

fluid? or, are electrical effects merely the exhibition

of the attractive powers of the particles of bodies P

Are heat and light elements of electricity, or merely

the efl`ects of its action ? Is magnetism identical with

electricity, or an independent agent put into motion

or activity by electricity? `Queries of this kind (he

observes) might be considerably multiplied, and
stated in more precise and various forms; the solu.

tion of them, it must be allowed, is of the highest

importance; and, though some persons have under-`

Itaken to answer them in the most positive manner,

yet there are, believe, few sagacious reasoners who

think that our present data are suflicient to enable us

to decide on such very abstruse and diflicult parts of

corpuscular philosophy."                                   `

He adds : --" It appeared to me an object of consi

derable moment, and one intimately connected with

all these queries --the relations of electricity to space

Ias nearly void of matter as it can be made on the sur

face of the earth ; and, in consequence, undertook

some experiments on the subject."

The experiments were effected in a very easy man

                           L4

5152  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

ner by a simple apparatus : a `curved glass tube,`withis
one leg closed and longer than the other, in which                   "=,
fused fixed metals could be employed instead of fluids,                     is

which are known to afford vapour, and by means ofit
which, with the aid of an air-pump, the most perfect
      a
Torricellian vacuum could be formed.a

    His results in relation to electricity and magnetismit
were, that they can exist in the most complete va
cuum; their attractions and repulsions in vacuoa
being exercised much in the same manner as in the
atmosphere. Whilst in relation to light, and `pro

pably heat, the inference from 'the experiments was,
that they cannot exist in a perfect vacuum, both di
minishing with the degree of perfection to which the

vacuum was brought, and, in an imperfect vacuum,

being modified according to the nature of the vapour
in which they appeared.

  IFor the details, both of the experiments and the

reasoning connected with the results, must refer

the philosophical reader to the paper itself which
well worthy of his consideration, and fitted, whilst

    may lead to further inquiry, to check hasty gene

ralisation and assertion on such mysterious subjects.

    Thiswinter my brother paid visit to his family at
Penzance, and spent about week or ten days with
`them: though not intended to be so, was farewell

visit, and the last time he saw his mother and his native

place. The satisfaction he had on the occasion was

more than usual; for, in addition to the natural plea
sure of meeting old friends, and his nearest relations,

`he experienced from his townsmen an attention

 which was very gratifying to him -- he was ho
      *
                                                1. ;
      Phil. Trans. 1822, part

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.            158

noured by them with a public dinner. The following

particulars are extracted from an account of this

dinner` which was published  at the time in a Cornish
                                                                       `
paper : --
" About fifty gentlemen sat down to an excellent

dinner, and spent the evening with that cordiality,
harmony, and exaltation of feeling, which all the cir

cumstances of the scene were so well calculated to

inspire. It was, indeed, a season of luxurious en

joyment, in the best sense of the words, and one not
likely to be soon forgotten by any one of those who

partook of its delights. On the one hand, every

heart, tongue, and eye were as one to do honour

to him who had not only rendered the name of their

town famous and imperishable as science itself, but

who had added lustre to the intellectual character of

their country, and had won the still higher guerdon

due to the happy few who can claim to be permanent
benefactors of the human race. On the other hand,

was the proud though unintentional triumph of ge

nius, returning to its native home, adorned with the

highest and most conspicuous honours which science

and power can bestow, softened and subdued by the

spontaneous, simple, and unanimous homage where

with it was greeted ; amid scenes which, fraught,as

they were, with all the delightful and indelible asso
ciations of boyhood, were of themselves sufficient to

give a warmth and tenderness to many things which,

elsewhere, and in other circumstances, might have

been overlooked as common."

   Whilst on this `visit he addressed the following letter
to Mr. Poole, expressing the state of his feelings, the

revival of former ones, and `in language of abstract
terms very like what he indulged in in youth : --

154 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

                " To Thomas Poole, Esq.
       Q
                                                         " Penzance.
" MY DEAR PooLE,
  I" An uncontrollable necessity has brought me

here, close to the Land's End. am enjoying the

tnajestic in nature, and living over again the days of

my infancy and early youth.
   " The living beings that act upon me are interest

ing subjects for contemplation. Civilisation has not

yet destroyed in their minds the semblance of the

great Parent of Good.
   " Nature has done much for the inhabitants of

Mount's Bay, by presenting to their senses all things

that can awaken in the mind the emotions of great

ness and sublimity. She has placed them far from
cities, and given them forms of visible and audible

Ibeauty.

` " am now reviving old associations, and endea

Ivouring to attach old feelings to a few simple objects.
                             " am, &c.,
                                                    " H. Davr."

" During the next "year, 1822, he was less occu
pied than usual in scientific research, and he commu

nicated one paper only to the Royal Society. It was

entitled, " On the State of Water and Aériform

Matter in Cavities found in certain Crystals."""

  It occurred to him that the state of the fluid and

elastic fluid contents of these cavities might aid the

solution of some of the most interesting problems in

geological science relating to the formation of the

crystalline rocks, in Which they are found; and the

results  which  he  o`bPtahiiln. eTdranisn.   examining  them  con

                                             1822.

sra HUMPHRY DAVY.            155

firmed his conjecture. In the majority of instances

he found the air in the cavities.very much rarefied,

and resembling azote in its properties, and the fluid

water nearly pure. The only exceptions which he

met with were two, which were very remarkable.

In a specimen of rock crystal from La Gardette, in
Dauphiné, he detected, instead of water, a brownish
oily fluid ; and, instead of air, the vapour of the same .

fluid highly rarefied ; and in a crystal supposed to be

from the Brazils, which contained water and air, the

air, instead of being rarefied, was found in a contrary

state, very much condensed.

   Theoretically considered, these results appeared to

him sufliciently explicit, and decidedly in favour of

the Huttonian views of the formation of crystalline

rocks, -- the rarefied state of air and vapour included

in the crystals indicating the operation of a high

temperature at the moment of consolidation, as if

from igneous fusion; and the condensed state of air

in one instance denoting, during the process of crys
tallisation, great compression. He concludes with
observing, " That a fact which has been considered

by the Neptunists, above all others, as hostile to the

idea of the igneous origin of crystalline rocks, namely,
the existence of water in them, seems to afford a de

cisive argument in favour of the opinion it has been

brought forward to oppose."  .

  IDuring the summer he again went into Scotland;

and by the way visited, believe, the Kirkdale Cave

in.'Yorkshire, to see those organic remains which had

been discovered a short time before, buried in clay, and

sealed up by stalactite, bearing evidence to a diluvial

catastrophe on the surface, hardly less demonstrative

than the results of his researches just mentioned did

156 mzmoms or THE LIFE or

to the operation of fire in the depths of the earth, in

Ithe production of its crystalline rocks.

   The following letter received from him, from a

distant part of the Highlands, where he had gone for

the sake of fishing and shooting, and the pleasure of
exploring wild scenery: --

                               " Garve, Inverness, August 11. 1821.
      " MY DEAR Jonu,
                                                        in
  I" heard from Lady Davy that you had been
                                                        I
town, and that your voyage was put ofi'sine die.

hope now that it will not take place till the winter is

Iover, and that we shall meet again in the autumn.

shall certainly be in town about the middle or before

Ithe end of October.
   " have had a rough but agreeable journey and
Ivoyage amongst the wildest parts of the Highlands-
the west of Ross-shire.        have seen some beautiful

lake scenery on Loch Maree, and caught some salmon,

in spite of bad weather, in the river which runs from
it into the sea, and which formerly was the best river `

for angling in Scotland; but they have now placed

the cruives close to the sea, and left only a single

Ipoo"lfor the   honest angler.     against    the       grouse
         shall  take the campaign

here to morrow, on Sir George Mackenzie's moors.
   " The Highland lairds are all marching, bag and

bagpipe   (not baggage),       to Edinburgh,   with as  strong
external  expressions of                      they had   never
                               loyalty as if
J Ibeen acobites, and Scotland is all in commotion.
dined with Sir W. Scott the day before I left Edin

burgh, who in fact, master ofthe royal revels; and

   was very much amused to see the deep interest he
I
                          is,

             sm HUMPHRY nxvv.                                              157

took in the tailors, plumassiers, and show dressmakers,
who are preparing this grand display of Scotch cos
tume.

   " Pray address me, Post-Oflice, Blair Athol; and

believe me to be, " My dear John,

     " Your very affectionate Brother and Friend,
                                                     " H. Davr."

It was, probably, during this excursion that he wit

nessed   an  "inStaelrmesotimnga,"ininciddeenstc,ribwinhgichthihsepahrats   intro
duced   in
                                                                           of the

Highlands, namely, two eagles teaching their young

to fly. He first recorded the circumstance in verse,

as he was much in the habit of doing when an event

Iimpressed him associated with any peculiar train of
thought.     shall transcribe the lines for the sake of
the thought and its aspiration : --

             " THE EAGLES.
" The mighty birds still upward rose,
   In slow but constant and most steady flight,

        The young ones following;    and  they would  pause,
                                    bear  the light,
        As if to teach them how to

        And keep the solar glory full in sight.

        So went they on till, from excess of pain,

        I could no longer bear the scorching rays ;
        IAnd when looked again they were not seen,

        Lost in the brightness of the solar blaze.
        ITheir memory left a type, and a desire :

        So should wish towards the light to rise,

        IInstructing younger spirits to aspire

        Where could never reach amidst the skies,

        And joy below to see them lifted higher,

        ISeeking the light of purest glory's prize.  day

        So would look on splendour's brightest
        With an undazzled eye, and steadily
        Soar upwards full in the immortal ray,

        Through the blue depths of the unbounded sky,

        Pourtraying wisdom's boundless purity.

        Before me still a lingering ray appears,
        But broken and prismatic, seen thro' tears,

        The light of joy and immortality."

158 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

   In a letter to his mother`, written just after his re;

turn to London, dated October 23., his kind and reli
gious feelings are again called forth on the occasion of
the death of our mother's eldest sister at an advanced

Iage. He says, " heard of my poor aunt's death
I Ifrom John. When took leave of her did not ex
Ipect to see her again. She was always kind and good

to me, and felt very sincere grief for her loss; but
the course of nature, and the decrees of Providence,
are inevitable ; and man has only to worship and obey."

   During the Christmas holidays he went into Wales,
where, as appears from his letters to Mr. Vivian,
published by Dr. Paris, he gave part of his time to
investigate the nature of the effluvia arising from the
great copper works in the neighbourhood of Swan-`
sea in the operation of reducing the ores of copper,
and to the most effectual means of correcting their
noxious qualities.

   This winter he made no communication to the
Royal Society; but early in the spring of 1823 he gave
a paper, which was read on the 6th of March, " On
a New Phenomenon of Electro-Magnetism.""`= The
following is his description of it in its most striking
form, and of the apparatus by which it was pro

Iduced : --
   " had two copper wires of about one-sixth of an
inch in diameter, the extremities of which were flat

and carefully polished, passed through two holes
three inches apart in the bottom of a glass basin, and

perpendicular to it; they were cemented into the

basin, and made non-conductors by sealing-wax, ex
cept at their polished ends; the basin was then filled

               '` Phil. Trans. 1823, part 2nd.

            sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                            159

with mercury, which stood' about a tenth or twelfth.
of an inch above the wires; the wires were now

placed in a powerful voltaic circuit. The moment.

the contacts were made, the phenomenon, which is the
principal object of this paper, occurred; the mercury

was immediately seen in violent agitation; its surface
became elevated into a small cone above each of the

wires; waves flowed off in all directions from these

cones; and the only point of rest was apparently
where they met in the centre of the mercury, be

tween the two wires. On holding the pole of a

powerful bar-magnet at a considerable distance

(some inches) above one of the cones, its apex was
diminished, and its base extended; by lowering the

pole further these effects were still farther increased,

and the undulations were feebler. At a smaller dis

tance the surface of the mercury became plane, and
rotation slowly began round the wire. As the mag

net approached, the rotation became more rapid; and

when it was about half an inch above the mercury, a
great depression of it was observed above the wire,

and a vortex which reached almost to the surface of

the wire."                     .

For farther particulars of this very remarkable

it,
           is

                                      it
                                                 it

                                                                     a

                                       iIt,
phenomenon, and how he investigated                                     must re

fer to the paper itself. He avoided speculating on

considering the science of electricity and mag-

netism not sufliciently advanced: in cursory man

ner, however, he remarks, that the passage of the

electricity through the mercury seems to diminish

the power of gravitating, as,     might be added,

under other circumstances does its power of che

mical union; and he also points out that the pheno

menon       more favourable to the hypothesis of two

160 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

electricities than of one in deficiency and excess.
Indeed, by Berzelius the experiment is considered
as almost a demonstrative proof of the existence of

two electricities.*

   He concludes the paper byan act of justice to Dr.
Wollaston, pointing out how the discovery of the

rotations of the electro-magnetic wire round its axis
by the approach of a magnet, realized by the inge
nuity of Mr. Faraday, had been anticipated and even
attempted by Dr. Wollaston in the laboratory of the

Royal Institution.

   The week after this paper was read, my brother
                     paper by Mr. Faraday " On Fluid
communicated a          the gas condensed into the liquid
            "
`
           `;
                                 is,
                                                                          is
Chlorine       that

state.

   The history of this interesting discovery briefly
as follows. According to Mr. Faraday, when he
was engaged in examining the hydrate of chlorine
my brother suggested to him the experiment of ex

posing this substance to heat in closed glass tube;
                                        aa
with   the expectation,  stated in                              note  appended by
him                                     "                       that
      to Mr. Faraday's      paper,                                    one of three

things would happen: that would become fluid asit
  hydrate; or that decomposition of water would
a                    a
occur, and euchlorine and muriatic acid be formed;

or that the chlorine would separate in condensed
                                                                `
state."1`
                                                                       a

   Mr. Faraday complied with the suggestion, and the.
result was decomposition of the hydrate of chlo
           aa
rine, and      condensation of two fluids: one an

aqueous solution of chlorine the other chlorine un-.;
combined, which had the appearance of an oil, and

"" Traite' de Chimie, vol. p. 19].                              Phil. Trans. 1823, part 2d..`
                     i.

                                                             +

         sra HUMPHaY our. "                161

which, when the tube was broken, suddenly returned

to the state of gas.                    .

` Thisfact, the merit of establishing which is due to

Mr. Faraday, as much so as that of establishing the

rotary motion already alluded to, immediately gave

rise to an extension of the inquiry, in working out

which my brother was guided by his usual analogical

mode of reasoning.

   He next tried to render muriatic gas liquid, and

he effected it in a very simple way, -- " by sealing
muriate of ammonia and sulphuric acid in astrong

glass tube, and causing them to act on each other,"

---one portion of the gas generated, compressing and

condensing the other. `

   To this condensing agency of gas, generated in

close vessels, aided by heat at one end, as at the

other it might be by cold, there appeared to be no
limit, excepting the strength of apparatus. He was

naturally, therefore, sanguine in expectation of similar

success with other gases by employing the same

means.

Mr. Faraday, at his request, continued the experi

ments, and actually did succeed in obtaining in the

liquid state sulphurous acid, sulphuretted hydrogen,

carbonic acid, euchlorine, nitrous oxide, cyanogen,

and ammonia; but failed in condensing hydrogen,

oxygen, fluo-boracic, silicated fluoric, and phosphu

retted hydrogen gases.*

    These results were communicated to the Royal

Society`on the 10th of April; and at the following

`meeting a paper of my brother's was read, " On the

Application of Liquids formed by the Condensation

VOL. IL  * Phil. Trans. 1823, part 2d.
                                M

162 MEMOIaS or THE LIFE or

of Gases as Mechanical Agents." He thus prefaces
Ithe inquiry: --
                                   had in view in
   " One of the principal objects

causing experiments to be made on the condensation

of different gaseous bodies by generating them under
pressure, was the hope of obtaining vapours which,

from the facility with which their elastic powers might

 be diminished or increased by small decrements or in
` crements of temperature, would be applicable to the

Isame purposes as steam."

   He adds,-- " As soon as had obtained muriatic
acid in the liquid state, a body which M. Berthollet
supposed owed its power of being separated from

I Ibases by the acids only to the facility with which it

assumes the gaseous form, had no doubt, as men

tioned in my last communication, that all the other

gases which have weaker aflinities or greater densi

ties, and which are absorbablento any extent by water,

might be rendered fluid by similar means; and that

the conjecture was founded, has been proved by ex

Iperiments, made with so much industry and ingenuity

by Mr. Faraday, and which have had the pleasure
of communicating to the Society."

   In explanation of his hopes on the application
of the new liquids, he remarks -- " The elasticity of

vapours in contact with the liquids from which

they are produced under high pressures by high tem
peratures, such as those of alcohol and water, is
known to increase in a much higher ratio than the

arithmetical one of temperature; but the exact law

is not yet determined, and the result is a complicated

one, and depends upon circumstances which require

to be ascertained by experiment. Thus, the ratio of

the elastic force dependent upon pressure is to be

                     . , __,___

sm HUMPHRY navr.                                                                                 168

combined with that of the expansive force dependent

upon the temperature and the greater loss of radiant
is

                                ;
heat at high temperatures, and the development of

latent heat in compression, and the necessity for its
re-absorption in expansion (as the rationale of the

subject at present understood), must awaken some

doubts as to the economical results to be obtained by

employing the steam of water, under very great pres

sures, and at very elevated temperatures.

   " N such doubts, however, can arise with respect

to the use of such liquids as require for their exist
0
       a
                                                    is
                                                                    is,

                                                                                              ;
ence even compression equal to that of the weight

of thirty or forty atmospheres; and where common

temperatures, or slight elevations of them, are suf

ficient to produce an immense elastic force and

when the principal question to be discussed whether
the effect of mechanical motion to be most easily
produced by an increase or diminution ofheat by

artificial means."*

The experiments which he made on this subject

answered his most sanguine expectations                                                          must
a
                                      a

                                                  2
                                                     is

                                                    a (I

                                                                               it

                                                                                 ,_,._,,__?`V`.-"ii.'ifl`__|-'74"f_!A_--"
refer the reader for detail of them to the paper

self), and induced him to hope, that the mere differ
ence of temperature between sunshine and shade,
and air and water, or the effects of evaporation from

moist surface, will be sufficient to produce results

which have hitherto been obtained only by great

expenditure of fiiel.
   Whether these views will ever be realised, can only

be determined by experimental investigation. Should

theybe realised, the imagination almost startled at the

consequences; the accession of power to man would

'* Phil. Trans. 1823, part 2d.
                  M

;164~  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

be. so enormous,--.as much exceeding any power

even at present available, as the force of steam, the
`great power of these times, is superior to any agency

previously known, and the advantages that would
accrue to society would of necessity be commen

surate.

  IBefore quit the topic of the condensation of the
Igases, consider it right to state that the account

which Dr. Paris has given in his work of the manner

in which the discovery was `made is partial, and, as it

appears to me, incorrect and unjust, and not borne
outby the published statements either of Mr. Faraday
or my brother. Dr. Paris asserts that Mr. Faraday
must have made the discovery of the condensation of

chlorine into the fluid form, if left to himself. What

he might have done it is impossible to say; consi

dering his ingenuity and activity, it is probable he

would have effected it. But this is certain, that the

discovery was made in consequence of the suggestion

he received; and the suggestion was offered with a

view to the result obtained.                           .

Dr. Paris's narrative imparts to the reader the im

pression, that Mr. Faraday was very unjustly treated ;;
that Sir H umphry Davy took advantage of his situa-.

tion, and endeavoured to appropriate to himself part.
of the merit of a discovery to which he was in nowise

entitled. This is insinuated, not expressly stated,

and it has required to be repelled. It was not in my

brother's nature to assume.to himself another man's

merit; he was infinitely above such meanness of con
Iduct; and am surprised that Mr. Faraday has not
Icome forward to do him justice. ` As
                                       view the

matter, it appears hardly less necessary to his own

honest fame than hisacknowledgment to Dr. Wol

   sra HUMPHRY DAVY. `                     165

laston,` on the subject of the first idea of Jtherotary

magnetic motion.

   In July, after the termination of the meetings of the

Royal Society,my brother made an excursion into
Ireland and Scotland, with his `distinguished friend,
Dr. Wollaston, who was hardly less fond of angling,

though he had acquired a taste. for the diversion
late in life, as is mentioned in a note to Salmonia.

A letter to Mr. Edmund Davy, dated Glasgow,

September 1., in answer to some inquiries relativeto
a plan for preventing the forgery of notes, briefly
mentions their course of travel, and explicitly states
the part Mr. Faraday performed in the inquiry on the
condensation of the gases :---

I I".` "                    " Glasgow, Sept. 1. 1823.
       " DEAR SIR,
have been waiting ever since received.your
Iletter, which reached me when was at Ballina, in
the county of Mayo, in hopes ofbeing able to inclose
an answer to under the cover of Member of Par
   it,                      a

     I                         I
liament; but having been sinceprincipally in `the

wildest parts .of the north of Ireland, have had no

opportunity,`and therefore put you to the expense

of "posMtarg.eP. erriere's plan does not appear to me likely

to be successful. Dr. Wollaston, who was travelling

`with me, was of the same opinion.         conceive
                            it

                                is I
                                                        it
could be very easily imitated, so as to deceive the
eye of common observer, as
a                           has not even the

delicacy of workmanship which characterises some
other inventions, in which the stamp of the'same

complicated kind. .What the ingenuityof men can
`invent the ingenuity of men can imitate.

                                M3

166 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I" have been visiting some of the wildest spots

in Mayo and Donegal, and have again and again

Ibeen studying the mysterious basaltic arrangements

of Antrim; but almost despair of any adequate

Ithe"ory  to account for the phenomena.           of your  fa
          congratulate you on the increase
Imily, and trust your marriage has added to your

happiness.

  IThe experiments on the condensation of the gases

were`made under my direction; and had antici

pated, theoretically, all the results. My object, which

I hope will be attained, was a new moving power.

  I" shall be very glad, at any time, to receive any
experiments of yours (which will add to your repu
Itat"ion)hfeoarr
                  the Royal  Society.       that  your lectures,
                  with much   satisfaction

both at Bristol and Cork, were very popular, and very

well received.    I" am, dear Sir,

                             " Ver  sincere]      Yours,

                                             "    H. DAVY."

  IOn his return to town received from him the

following letter, in which the first indications ap
peared of that malady from which he afterwards suf

fered so much, and which ultimately proved fatal;
offering a remarkable instance of the insidious man

ner in which some complaints are formed: --

  I" MY DEAR Jonn,                                " October 30. 1823.

" received your letter from                 IEdinburgh, and

am very glad you arrived safe, and had a pleasant

              sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                        167.

Ipassage.    envy you the power of bearing a sea voy
Iage ; suffer not only at the time, but some days
Iafter, which, believe, is owing to an irritable or dis
eased state of my liver, or some of the organs con

nected with it.

  I" have not been well since my return to town :
I have my usual autumnal affection of the stomach
Iand bowels.
              have had pains, apparently not in

flammatory, in my hands and feet: can this be gout,

or is it merely symptomatic of the state of the sto

mach ?
*# #
                                               lit #  Q

   " Dr. Wollaston is nearly well of his wound, which
has given him a good deal of pain. The explosion was

from a common powder-horn ; but he cannot explain

at all how.  =X=   ilk *                       #*

       #        I

             " am, my dear John,
                    " Very affectionately yours,
                                              " H. Davr."

    Belonging to this precise period, little occurs in his
note-books to extract in verse, and still less in prose.
Some lines which he wrote this year on Lord Byron
may be acceptable to the reader, especially in con
nection with some others which he composed the

following year; the one on this great genius living,

the other dead--pourtraying his impression of his

character and powers, feelings and aspirations, written

from more than common knowledge of the poet and
the man with perception equally of his great ble
mishes and irregularities, and of his extraordinary

excellencies.

                                             M
        ;
                      a
                                           If

168      MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

               " LORD BYRON.                                       '

         " WRITTEN WHILST LIVING.

     `( Altho' thy youthful and luxuriant wreath,                     ". 1823.

        Of splendid and most glorious hues, was woven

         From all the fairest, sweetest flowers of spring,

        Yet some strange blossoms and some poisonous weeds
         Were mingled with the jasmine and the rose,
        And the sweet orange flower ; and thy dark locks

        In curling ringlets seem'd a Sybarite's,
        Well fitted for the odours strong and strange,

         And for the colours varying, where the bay
        Was mingled with the dark anemone ;
        And where the birch and `deadly night-shade mix'd
        Their leaves incongruous with the lily pale,
        And humble violet, that tranquil hangs
        Itsdewy head in shade`. But not in vain

       ;Has time upon thy godlike countenance

         Diffused its chasten'.d and more tranquil tints
        And not in vain has given thy raven locks
         Some hues of wisdom in their silver light,
        Such as full well may suit and harmonize
        Not with the fragrant unguents of the south,
        Nor the rich roses, or the leafy myrtle,
        Which pleasure's sons upon their brows assume,
        But rather with the darker laurel crown,

        In which some purple amaranths are twined,

         The flowers and leaves of immortality,
        Which may prepare thee for immortal palms
        And Christian songs of triumph I"

             " ON THE DEATH OF LORD BYRON.
       " comrosnn AT wnsrmnn IN THE GREAT sronm, 1824.`

     `( Gone is the bard, who, like a`powerfu1 spirit,

       A beautiful and fallen child of light,
        Of fiery seraph the aspiring peer,

        Seemed fitted by his nature to inherit

       A wilder state than in the genial strife
        Of mighty elements is given our sphere,

        Fix'd in a stated round its course to run,
        A chained slave, around the master sun!

   ° It  was during a storm that he expired. Mr.   iGt.ord"onA, t  in his ad
         History of the Greek Revolution, records                  six o'cloclk
mirable

in the afternoon of Easter Monday (April 19.), at the instant of an
awful thunderstorm, Byron expired."

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. "`                                     160

`( Of some great comet he might well have been

    The habitant, that thro' the mighty space
   Of kindling ether rolls ; now visiting
   Our glorious sun, by wondering myriads seen
   Of planetary beings ; then in race
   Vying with light in swiftness, like a king

   Of void and chaos, rising up on high
  `Above the stars in awful majesty.

`( Now passing near those high and bless'd abodes,
   Where bemgs of a nobler nature move
   In fields of purest light, where brightest rays

   Of glory shine ---in power allied to gods,

   Whose minds in hope and in fruition prove
    That unconsuining and etherial blaze
    Flowing from, returning to, Eternal Love.

(( And such may be his fate ! And if to bring

  IHis memory back, an earthly type were given,

   And possess'd the artist's powerful hand,

  A genius with an eagle's powerful wing

    Should press the earth recumbent, looking on heaven

   With wistful eye ; a broken lamp should stand
   Beside him, on the ground its naphtha flowing
   In the bright flame, o'er earthly ashes glowing."

  I shall close this chapter with a copy of verses

written in the beginning of this year, when on a visit
to a noble family, on whom praise might be lavished,
free from adulation, and whose kind attentions were

almost the last he received, and warmly felt, towards

the close of his career : --

" ASHBURNHAM PLACE.

" Is this a time for minstrelsy,             " January 22. 1823.

When nature rests in deathlike sleep,

And roots, and buds, and herbage lie

Embalm'd in icy cerements deep P

" When scarce a stream is heard to flow,
       And scarce the distant woods appear,

    So widely spreads the drifted snow,
        The mantle of the newborn year?

170 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE or

          " When the wild songsters of the grove
                   Shivering around the mansion fly,

              Without a single note of love,--
                Is this a time for minstrelsy P

         " It is a time for minstrelsy!
                 For still the laurel blooms around,

               And bay ; and Fancy's dreaming eye
                   Can see through mists the fairy ground.

          " And hill, and dale, and woodlands green,
                   And lakes, which pastoral meads surround,

               The distant ocean, and a scene

               At home where blossoms rise around.

         " And nature gains from art new powers,

                   Charms that in happy union meet,
               Where wild and cultivated flowers

                      Together blend their odours sweet.

        " It is a time for minstrelsy !

                 For round these walls what magic forms
               Appear in grace and harmony !

                   The pencil of the artist warms

        " The coldest scenes, and powers sublime,

                   Awakening moral forms of things,
              And new creations, steal from Time

                 His scythe, and close his wings.

         " It is an hour for minstrelsy !
                 For social converse wakes the mind

              To pure and happy sympathy ;
                   And elegance and taste refined

         " Call to the hospitable board

                   The force of reason and the flow

             Of memory, with wisdom stored,
                 Which might awake a grateful glow

         " In Fancy e'en, tho' check'd by age ;

                    Make sunshine in the darkest day,
                And kindle in the coldest sage

                  Some strain of vocal minstrelsy/'

srn HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                       171

CHAPTER V.

RESEARCHES ON THE CORROSION OF THE COPPER SHEATHING                     "OFONSHTIPHSE,

   AND ON ITS PREVEN'.l'ION- -- HIS LAST BAKERIAN LECTURE

RELATION OF ELECTRICAL AND CHEMICAL CHANGES."----JOURNAL OF

AN EXCURSION TO NORWAY AND SWEDEN- -- VERSES WRITTEN AT

COPENHAGEN---NOTICES OF BERZELIU8, OERSTED, GAUSS, SCHUMACHER.

--VERSES WRITTEN AT ULSWATER-----LETTER TO HIS SISTER---PARA"

LYTIC ATTACK. -- NOTICES OF A JOURNEY THROUGH FRANCE INTO

1TALY.--VEBSES WRITTEN AT BAVENNA.

WE are now approaching the last term of my bro

ther's scientific labours, in which he was occupied,
with little interruption, from the latter end of 1823

till the summer of 1826. During the short period of

about two years and a half; he communicated to the

Ro"yaOl nSotchieetyCtohrerofsoiounr  following papers : --              by Sea
                                      of Copper Sheeting

Water, and on the Methods of preventing this Effect;

and on their Application to Ships of War and other

Ships."                                                              `  on the
   " Additional Experiments
                                     and Observations

Application of Electrical Combinations to the Pre

servation of Copper Sheathing of Ships, and to other
                                                                                                                                                                `

Purposes."
   " Further Researches on the Preservation of Me

tals by Electro-Chemical Means."

   The Bakerian Lecture for 1826 --" On the Rela

tion of Electrical and Chemical Changes."

   These papers, like those on fire-damp, offer a happy

instance of an inquiry instituted in quest ofa remedy

172 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

for a practical evil, after having accomplished the
specific object for which it was commenced, leading
to other collateral researches, extending the boun

daries of physical science, and, applied to the arts,

conferring additional and unexpected benefits.

My brother's attention was called to the corrosion of
copper sheeting in sea water by the Commissioners of
the Navy, to whom, on account of the vast loss in con

sequence of it resulting to the country, it had become
a matter of serious consideration.

   Without loss of time he entered on the experi.
mental investigation of the problem.

   He first ascertained that there is no constant rela
tion between the impurity of copper and the facility

of being acted on or corroded by sea water, which

was at `that time, and is indeed still, a popular notion;

the contrary rather appeared to be the case : in some

instances the purest specimens suffered more than

those containing alloy.  `

He next examined into the minute circumstances
of the action of sea water on copper. He ascertained

that the corrosion of the metal is owing to the joint
action of air in the water, and of its saline ingre

dients ; oxide of copper being first formed, and that

becoming an insoluble submuriate, and magnesia

`being at the same time precipitated.

Reasoning on these changes, and the elements

concerned in them, in quest of remedial means, he had

recourse to electro-chemical science, and the princi

ples which he himself had established of the apparent
identity of electrical and chemical attraction, and the

power of controuling the one by the other. It oc

curred to him, that as copper` is only feebly positive

in the electro-chemical scale, and that as, according

sra HUMPHRY DAVY.  173

.to his ideas, it could only act upon salt water when

in a positive state, could it be rendered slightly nega
tive the corroding action of sea water upon it would

be null; and whatever might be the difference of the
`kinds of copper sheeting, and their electrical `action
upon each other, still every effect of chemical action

must be prevented,`_if the whole surface were rendered

negative. But how was this to be effected? Re

flecting for some time on the slow and weak action
of sea water on copper, and the small difference

which must exist between their electrical powers, and

knowing that a very feeble chemical action would

be destroyed by a very feeble electrical force, he
began his experiments of prevention with an extreme
case of plunging into salt water acidulated by sul

phuric acid a polished plate of copper to which a
piece of tin was soldered equal to about one-twen
tieth of the surface of the copper. Examined after

three days the copper was perfectly clean, whilst the

tin was much corroded ; no blueness appeared in the

liquid; though in a comparative experiment, when

copper alone and the same fluid mixture were used,
there was a considerable corrosion of the copper, and
a distinct blue tint in the liquid.

   This was a fundamental experiment, and decisive
of the justness of the views he had formed, and

Ifalmost decisive of the eflicacy of the preventative

means he contemplated. " (he immediately remarks)
one-twentieth part of the surface of tin prevented
the action of sea water, rendered slightly acidulous

Iby sulphuric acid, had no doubt that a much smaller

quantity would render the action of sea water, which
depended only on the loosely attached oxygen of
common air, perfectly null; and on trying`elm part

a `it                     174< MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE or                             a. a

                         ;Iof tin, found the effect of its preventing the cor

                          rosion of the copper perfectly decisive."

                            IExemplifying the happy and wonderful success of

                          this simple means, shall extract a few more details
                          from his first paper, which can hardly fail to excite

                          the interest even of readers who have not devoted
                          their attention to matters of science, and are but
                          little acquainted with the mysteries it discloses.

                             " In pursuing these researches, and applying them
                          `to every possible form and connection of sheet cop

                          per, the results were of the most satisfactory kind. A

                          piece of zinc as large as a pea, or the point of a small
                          iron nail, was found fully adequate to preserve forty
                          or fifty square inches of copper; and this wherever

                             was placed, whether at the top, bottom, or in the
                          `middle of the sheet of copper, and whether the cop
                          per was straight, or bent, or made into coils. And
                          where the connection between different pieces of
                          copper was completed by wires, or thin filaments of
                          the fortieth or fiftieth of an inch in diameter, the

                          effect was the same, -- every side, every surface,
                          every particle of the copper remained bright, whilst

                          the iron or the zinc was slowly corroded.

                             " A piece of thick sheet copper, containing on both

                          sides about sixty square inches, was cut in such

                             manner as to form seven divisions, connected only
                          by the smallest filaments that could be left, and
                          mass of zinc of the fifth of an inch in diameter was
                          soldered to the upper division. The whole was

                          plunged under sea water; the copper remained per
                          fectly polished. The same experiment was made
                          with iron and now, after lapse of month, in both

                          instances, the copper as bright as when was first
                          introduced, whilst similar pieces of copper unde
                            is
                                  a
                                                      a

                                                           it

sra HUMPHRY DAVY.           175

fended, in the same sea water, have undergone con

siderable corrosion, and produced a large quantity of
green deposit in the bottom of the vessel.

  " A piece of iron nail about an inch long was fas

tened by a piece of copper wire nearly a foot long
to a mass of sheet copper containing about forty

square inches, and the whole plunged below the sur

face of sea water. It was found, after a week, that the

copper was defended by the iron in the same manner

as if it had been in immediate contact.
   " A small piece of zinc was fastened to the top of

a plate of polished copper, and a piece of iron of a

much larger size was soldered to the bottom, and the
combination placed in sea water. Not only was the

copper preserved on both sides, in the same manner
as in the other experiments, but even the iron; and
after a fortnight, both the polish of copper and the

iron remained unimpaired."
    His discovery, the result of these researches, he

thus announced to me, in a letter written just after

his first paper was read, and when not even a shadow

of doubt appears to have crossed his mind of any

possible failure in its application to the grand object

of naval economy, for which the inquiry was insti

tuted, and when he indulged, in consequence, in
most sanguine expectation of perfect success :

" MY DEAR Jorm,             " Firle, Jan. 30. 1824.

*as =|: at as =x<
I" have lately made a discovery of which you will
Ifor many reasons be glad.
                            have found a complete
method of preserving the copper sheeting of ships,
which now readily corrodes. It is by rendering it

176 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

negatively electrical. My results are of the most
beautiful and unequivocal kind; amass of tin ren
ders a surface of copper 200 or 300 times its own

size sufliciently electrical to have no action on `sea

Iwater.
   " was led to this discovery by principle, as you

will easily imagine; and the saving to government
Iand the country by it will be immense.
Ito apply it immediately to the navy.    am going

                                       might have

made an immense fortune by a patent for this disco

Ivery, but have given it to my country ; for in every
Ithing connected with interest, am resolved to live

iand die at least ` sans tdche.'  O I: is
0#

I" am, my dear John, very sincerely,

       " Your affectionate Friend and Brother,
                                  " H. Davr."

   In his second paper, which followed the first after
an interval of five months, he relates the results of

the experiments then in progress, on the protection
of copper sheeting by his method in our naval estab
lishments at Chatham and Portsmouth, applied to the
bottoms of boats and vessels at rest. Up to that time

his expectations had been fully answered; indeed,
he says, the influence of the protectors (as` the more
oxidable metals attached were called) in many in

stances even surpassed his expectations.

   " When the metallic protector was from 7,1, to T%;;,
there was no corrosion nor decay of the copper; with

smaller quantities, such as from also to fir» the copper
underwent a loss of weight, which was greater in pro

portion as the protector was smaller; and as a proof

of the universality of the principle, it was found that

           sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                       I77

even 11,165 part of cast iron saved a certain proportion

of the copper."
   In some instances, as he had anticipated, there was

a deposition of carbonate of lime and magnesia on the

copper, followed, contrary to his anticipations, by the
adhesion of sea insects and weeds. This happened`

when the copper was protected by a larger proportion
than usual of zinc or iron; it did not occur when
they were in a proportion less than 1-in; when " the
electrical power of the copper being less negative;

more neutralised, and nearly in equilibrio with that

of the menstruum," its decomposing effect as part of

a voltaic combination was less; no earthy matter was

deposited, and no weeds or insects adhered; and the

surface,   though it  had undergone     a"sali`gchirtcudmegstraeneceof
solution,             perfectly clean;
           remained

(he observes) of great importance, as it points out the
limits of protection, and makes the application of a
very small quantity of the oxidable metal more advan
tageous in fact than that of a larger one."

   In his third paper, communicated a year after the

preceding, he continued the inquiry, in connection

with the result last mentioned, the knowledge of

which had rendered the application of protecting

means more difiicult than was at first expected.

He renewed the investigation by carefully examin

ing .the circumstances of copper sheathing exposed to

the action of salt water without artificial protection.
   He found that the copper sheathing remained clean

so`long as the wear of its surface was equal and un

interrupted; its freedom from weeds and shells being

owing, not to any poisonous quality of the copper,

but to a loss of substance by solution and scaling off

preventing their adhesion.

VOL. II.                    N

178 mm/rorns or THE LIFE or

He next determined that when the copper sheath

ing becomes foul (as it occasionally does, though un
protected), the effect is commonly connected with
two distinct operations simultaneously going on,--a

formation of rust, which serves as a soil or bed for

sea weeds and insects; and unusual corrosion at a

little distance. " In general (he observes), in ships
in the navy, the first effect of the adhesion of weeds

is perceived upon the heads of the mixed metal nails,
which consist of copper alloyed by a small quantity
of tin. The oxides of tin and copper which form

upon the head of the nail, and in the space round
defend the metal from the action of sea water; and
                                  it,
being negative with respect to
                                      a

                                                                     it,
                                  stronger corroding

effect produced in its immediate vicinity, so that
it is
the copper      often worn into deep and irregular
      if
             iscavities in these parts."
         I
These cases, may remark, are strongly contrasted

with those in which protectors were employed; in

the latter, the bottom became foul, was in conse
                                  it

quence of being generally defended from corrosion;

or if remained clean, as when the oxidating metal

was applied in accordance with the due protecting
limit, the wear of the surface was of the most mo

derate and uniform kind, only just suflicient to pre

vent adhesion.

In the former papers the experiments detailed

were made on vessels in harbour; in this paper he

gives the results of some analogous trials, carried

on during voyage which he made the preceding
            aa
                               a
summer in steam-boat in the North Seas. They

proved two things; first, that protectors are equally

eflicient attached to             ship in motion as in a state
of rest; and secondly, " that independently of the

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  179

chemical, there is a mechanical wear of the copper
 in sailing, and which on the most exposed parts of the
 ship, and in the most rapid course, bears a relation
to it of nearly 2 to 4-55.''

    He next relates a series of experiments to ascer
tain the extent of the diminution of electrical action

in instances of imperfect or irregular conducting sur
faces, which he was led to institute from observing
that in some cases, when protectors had been ap
plied to copper sheathing, the joinings of which were

old, tarnish or corrosion appeared, which seemed to

increase with the distance from the protecting metal.

   The results he obtained indicated, --

    First, that when a perfect metallic connection ex
ists, there is no apparent diminution of conducting

power, or preservative effect, however divided or dif
fused the surface of the copper may be; and se

condly, that when the connection is by an imperfect
fluid conductor, a very small quantity of this con

ductor is sufficient to transmit the electrical power
and complete the chain.

   This last result induced him to try if copper nailed

upon wood, and protected merely by zinc or iron on
the under surface, or that next the wood, would not

Ibe defended from corrosion. " For this purpose (he

says) covered a piece of wood with small sheets of
copper, a nail of zinc of about the ads part of the
surface of the copper being previously driven into

the wood; the apparatus was plunged in a large jar
of sea-water; it remained perfectly bright for many
weeks; and When examined, it was found that the

zinc had only suffered partial corrosion, that the wood
was moist, and that on the interior `of the copper
there was a considerable portion of revived zinc; so

                                             N2

180  MEMOIRS 01-` THE LIFE or

that the negative electricity by its operation pro

vided materials for its future and constant excite

ment. In several trials of the same kind iron was

used with the same results; and in all these experi

ments there appeared to be this peculiarity in the

appearance of the copper, that unless the protecting

metal below was in a very large mass, there were no

depositions of calcareous or magnesian earths upon

the metal; it was clean and bright, and never coated."
   " These results (he continues) upon perfect and

imperfect conductors led to another inquiry, import
ant as it relates to the practical application of the

principle ; namely, as to the extent and nature of the

Icontact or relation between the copper and the pre
serving metal.  could not produce any protecting

action of zinc or iron upon copper, through the thin

nest stratum of air, or the finest leaf of mica, or of

dry paper; but the action of the metals did not seem

to be much impaired by the ordinary coating of

oxide or rust; nor was it destroyed when the finest

bibulous or silver paper, as it is commonly called,

Iwas between them, moistened with sea-water.

made an experiment with different folds of this paper.
Pieces of copper were covered with one, two, three,
four, five, and six folds; and over them were placed
pieces of zinc, which were fastened closely to them
by thread; each piece of copper so protected was

exposed in a vessel of sea water, so that the folds of

paper were all moist.

   " It was found in the case in which a single leaf

of paper was between the zinc and the copper, there

was no corrosion of the copper; in the case in which

there were two leaves, there was a very slight effect;

with three the corrosion was distinct; and it in

sra HUMPHRY navr. `                         181

creased till with the six folds the protecting powera
appeared to be lost; and in the case of the singlea
leaf; there was this difference from the result of im
                                    it,
mediate contact, that there was no deposition of                  a

earthy matter: showing that there was no absolute                      a
minute contact of the metals through the moist paper,
                                                                                                           :
Iwhich was likewise proved by other experiments;
it
for a thin plate of mica, as have just mentioned,
entirely destroyed the protecting effect of zinc ; and;
yet when a hole was made in so as to admit verya
thin layer of moisture between the zinc and the cop
                                        aa
per, the corrosion ofthe copper, though not destroyed,
iswas considerably diminished."

   With view to the same practical application of
the principle, the following experiment was made --

" A small piece of iron was placed in one glass,

filled with saturated solution of brine, which con

tains little or no air; copper attached by wire to
the iron was placed in a vessel containing sea water,

which was connected with the brine by moistened
tow; the copper did not corrode, and yet the iron

was scarcely sensibly acted upon, and that only at
the surface of the brine and much less effect was

produced on in many weeks than would have been
occasioned by sea water in as many days: " very

important result, and which was confirmed by others,
showing that protection may be afforded of very
eflicient kind, almost to the exclusion of chemical

action; or that there no necessary connection be
tween the degree of protection and the quantity of
waste of the protecting metal.

   From the principles of protection, after having
given many instances of ships which had returned
from long voyages with their copper sheathing pre

    N
        3

ISQ MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

served in a very remarkable manner, he proceeds to
point out, in conclusion, what he considers the most

effectual method of employing protectors: --
   " In cases when ships are to be newly sheathed,

the experiments which have been detailed in the pre
ceding pages render it likely that the most advan
tageous way of applying protection will be under,
and not over the copper, the electrical circuit being
made in the sea water, passing through the places of
junction in the sheets; and in this way every sheet

of copper may be provided with nails of iron or zinc
for protecting them to any extent required. By

driving the nail into the wood, through paper wetted
with brine above, the tarred paper, or felt, or any
other substance that may be employed, the incipient
action will be diminished; and there is this great
advantage, that a considerable part of the metal will,

if the protectors are placed in the centre of the sheet,

be deposited, and re-dissolved ; so there is reason to

believe that small masses of metal will act for a great
length of time. Zinc, in consequence of its forming
little or no insoluble compound in brine or sea water,
will be preferable to iron for this purpose; and
whether this metal or iron be used, the waste will be

much less than if the metal was exposed on the out

side, and all difliculties with respect to a proper situ
ation in this last case are avoided.

    " The copper used for sheathing should be the

purest that can be obtained "' ; and in being applied
to the ship, its surface should be preserved as smooth

   ' He considered the presence of alloy favourable to the formation of

 crusts of insoluble oxide, and the adhesion of weeds and shell-fish, and
 irregular corrosion.

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  188

and equable as possible; and the nails used for
fastening should likewise be of pure copper, and a
little difference in their thickness and shape will
easily compensate for their want of hardness.

   " In vessels employed for steam navigation the

protecting metal can scarcely be in excess, as the
rapid motion of these ships prevents the chance of
any adhesions, and the wear of the copper, by proper

protection, is diminished more than two thirds."
   As the principles of electro-chemistry which he

developed in his first Bakenan Lecture, that of 1806,
led to the discovery of a means of protection for

copper sheathing, so the researches which this in

quiry gave rise to brought him back to the investi
gation of electro-chemical action. This was the
subject of his last Bakerian Lecture, which he gave
the year following the date of the preceding paper,

namely, in 1826. It consists of eight parts : --

   " I. Introduction.

  " II. Some Historical Details.

  III." On the Modes adopted for detecting the

Electrical States of Bodies and Definitions of Terms.

   " IV. On the Electrical and Chemical Effects ex

hibited by Combinations containing single Metals
and one Fluid.

   " V. Of Electrical Combinations consisting of two

imperfect and one perfect Conductor, or two Fluids
and a Metal or Charcoal.

   " VI. Of Combinations consisting of two Con

ductors of the more perfect Class and one Fluid.

  " VII. On the Accumulation of Electricity, and

the Chemical Changes it occasions in Voltaic Ar

rangements.

                                          N4

184 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

  " VIII. General Observations and Practical Ap

plications."

   In the introduction he expresses the great satisfac

tion he has in the idea, that after a number of new
experiments which he himself had made, and not
withstanding the various novel views which had been
brought forward, and the great activity and extension
of science, he had nothing to alter in the fundamental
theory, which he laid down in his Bakerian Lecture
of 1806; and which, after a lapse of twenty years,
was still, as in the beginning, the guide and foundation
of all his researches.

    The historical details, which he felt himself under
the necessity of giving in vindication of rights which
had been encroached and broken in upon with as
little delicacy as justice, have already been brought
forward when considering his early.electro-chemical

labours.

  IOf the other parts of this lecture shall not at

tempt to give an analysis, --they hardly admit of
abridgment; and to be understood, and duly appre
ciated, they require to be carefully studied in the
original. The concluding " General Observations
and Practical Applications," however, may in part be
excepted, in which he reverts to the subject of the
protection of metals by electro-chemical means; no
tices the general result of his extended experience,
the disappointment of his first sanguine hopes, and
the degree of hope in which he considered himself
warranted in indulging, founded on his later re

searches.

   " A great variety of experiments (he says), made

in different parts of the world, have proved the full

              sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  185

eflicacy of the electro-chemical means of preserving

Imetals, particularly the copper sheathing of ships;

but a hope had once indulged, that the peculiar
electrical state would prevent the adhesion of weeds

or insects, has not been realised. Protected ships

have often, indeed, returned, after long voyages, per

fectly bright, and cleaner than unprotected ships;

yet this is not always the case; and though the whole

of the copper may be preserved from chemical solu

tion in steam vessels by these means, yet they must

be adopted in common ships only so as to preserve a

portion,--so applied as to suffer a certain solution of

the copper ; and an absolute remedy for adhesions is
to be sought for by other more refined means of pro

tection, and which appear to be indicated by these

researches."  .

It may not be amiss to subjoin an instance or two
of the successful application of the protectors above

alluded to, which are described in his third paper.

One of the most remarkable instances was the Car

nebrea Castle, a large vessel upwards of 650 tons,

furnished with four protectors, two on the stern and
two on the bow, equal together to about 1%; of the

surface of the copper. She had been protected more

than twelve months, and had made the voyage to

Calcutta and back. She came into the river perfectly

bright, and when examined in the dry dock was

found entirely free from any adhesion, and offered a

beautiful and almost polished surface; and there
seemed to be no greater wear of copper than could
be accounted for from mechanical causes. The Do

rothy was another remarkable instance of the advan

tage of protectors. Her copper sheathing was much

worn, so that it was doubtful if she would be able to

186 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

make another voyage to India without being re-cop
pered. In this state protectors of 7% were applied

to her, and she effected the voyage without any ap
parent wear of her sheathing. More examples to the

same effect are adduced, but it is not necessary to

repeat them.

   The principle of protection was perfect; in that he

had experienced no disappointment. The only difli
culty was how to prevent the adhesion of sea weeds

and shell-fish. Remedial means he suggested, as has

Ibeen mentioned, for this purpose, founded on experi

ments made in the laboratory, but which, believe,

he never had an opportunity of trying on a large scale.

IThe experiments in the navy were the least success
ful of all.  apprehend that they were carelessly

made, and certainly they were very soon relinquished.

Had they been carried on by persons sincerely in

terested in them, who can doubt that their termination

would have been successful? who can doubt but that

some simple means would have been discovered by

which, whilst the copper was fully protected from

corrosion, it might be kept clean by a mechanical

process, which in a ship of war, with so many hands

at command, would have been of easy application ?

One instance, and one only, has come to my know
ledge, in which an attempt of this kind was made by

an oflicer of more than usual intelligence and activity.

It occurred in the Madagascar frigate, on the Medi

terranean station. She was provided with protectors;

and in consequence of the preservation of her copper,

Iher sheathing became foul, so as to impede her sail

ing. In a very short time, have been informed,

without entering port, by applying some very simple

method of cleaning, the adhering weeds, &c. were

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  187

removed, and she immediately recovered her usual
speed. Were the same attention given to the bottom

of a ship that there is to the high order of her decks,
or only a small portion of that attention, it seems,

from this example, highly probable that foulness from

adhesion might be entirely prevented, the protectors

rendered perfectly eflicient, and an immense saving
of expense effected.

   No sooner was the beautiful principle of metallic

protection discovered, than various economical appli

cations of it were obvious, for the purpose of pre
serving iron, steel, tin, brass, and other useful metals,
both indelicate instruments, in powerful machinery,
and in great constructions designed for permanency.
" Whenever a principle or discovery," he remarks, in
concluding his last Bakerian Lecture, "involves or
unfolds a law of nature, its applications are almost in

exhaustible ; and however abstracted it may appear, it
is sooner or later employed for the common purposes

of the arts and the common uses oflife." It was this

conviction of extensive and increasing usefulness of

his discovery, and the persuasion that it would be

duly appreciated by posterity, which constituted his
reward for his toils in the inquiry, and more than
compensated for the apparent ingratitude of his con
temporaries, and, after the first irritation had sub
sided, made him regardless of the slanders and false
reports which were invented and circulated at the

Itime by ill-designing and malicious persons.

      shall now recur to the narrative of the incidents

of my brother's life.
   In the account just given of his researches on the

protection of copper sheathing, a voyage which he
made in the North Sea in the summer ofl8Q4, for

188 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

the purpose of trying the influence of motion on the
protectors, is mentioned. On his return, he wrote
the following note to my mother, descriptive of his

course :--

                                                           " London, August 22. 1824.

      " MY DEAR MOTHER,

  I" returned on Tuesday from some extensive tra

vels and voyages of more than two thousand miles,
having gone round the coast of Norway, and

Ithrough Sweden, Denmark, Holstein, and Hanover.
  went sometimes in the Admiralty steam boat, which

Iwas at my disposal, and sometimes by land.

   " have done a great deal in seven weeks, having

made some important philosophical observations,

spent some days in the capitals of the north, and
passed the North Sea twice; once in a storm, in which

Ithe steam vessel had to go against wind and tide.
   " have been successful in all my objects, one of

which is important to the navy.

  I" Whilst was in the north, John was sailing south.
I have a letter from him of the 17th June. He was
Iwell, and just going from Malta to Greece.
                                             am
Inot sure whether shall go to Scotland or to the
north of England; but I shall leave town immedi

ately. Lady Davy is making a tour in Switzerland,
and is quite well.

          I" With kindest love to my sisters,

                          " am, my dear Mother,
                                  " Your affectionate Son,
                                                         " H. DAVY."

   He had for a long time discontinued keeping a

diary when travelling. Of this excursion, however,

         sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  189

Ihe wrote an account, the greater part of which shall

lay before the reader. It thus opens at Gottenburgh,

when confined by indisposition to the solitude of his

chamber :--

                                                  " Gottenburgh, July 21. 1824.

   " Is the melancholy and the debility produced by

Isickness favourable to intellectual exertion P believe

so. The mind necessarily becomes contemplative

when the body is no longer active, and the em

pire of sensation yields to that of imagination. Under

such circumstances, likewise, the mind is sober, and

disposed to discover realities, and values quiet and

comfort more than pomp and éclat. During the last

Ifortnight have seen and felt some novelties ; yet but
Ifor the wretched state of body in which am, they

Iprobably would never have been committed to paper.

   " left London on the 80th June: Lady M. would
Isay, ` on the wings of hope, aided by the paddles of
steam.'  had never before seen the whole of the

river, or known the `immensity of British capital, in

dustry, and activity displayed by the great inlet to

the most wonderful city in the world.
   " We left Greenwich at two o'clock, and before

nine we were coasting the Suffolk low lands, and lost

sight of land before it was dark. A favourable wind

and steam enabled us to see the coast of Holland

next day at three; and before the evening we had
passed the Texel, and the sand hills north of the

Texel, and were in the apparently unbounded ocean,

and saw the sun set in clouds, which looked as the

promise of another fair day. In the morning we were

called up on deck to see Heligoland appearing,--an

abrupt rock capped by a light-house, scarcely distinct

a190 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or;
          it,    a
in consequence of the dark sea and sky. The rain
poured in torrents; and through the delay of shifting,is
                                          is
Iand the slowness of pilots, we did not land till twelve,
               a
when found the use of my water-proof cloak anda
boots. There can scarcely be said to be a harbour
round this rude island, but of course there is shelter
from all winds; and we anchored within a gunshot
of the town (one eighth of a mile). The houses are
constructed of wood, and in general low and confined.
The population seems miserable; but all the articles
of life very cheap, particularly bad wine and spirits,
madeira and brandy being sold for a shilling a bottle,

and other spirits and cordials proportionally cheap.
The island is about a mile long, and principally co
vered with potatoes. The rocks which everywhere

surround except on the south side, are peculiarly
crumbling greywacke stone in constant state of decom
position. The highest points of the cliff appeared to
me to approach 400 or 500 feet; No wheat grown,
but little barley. The island has ceased to be the
deposit of English goods, and now miserably poor.
The language high German the women fair, but not
handsome; very little dark hair; flaxen locks and
blue eyes form the character of both men and women;

and, as the women labour hard, their forms are neither
good nor graceful. Next day, 8d July, we dined with

the governor, and by the evening were completely

tired of the island. At six we sailed, with rather

rougher gale than was pleasant; the gale increased,
and the ship rolled. About two, thunder storm
came on; and, to the relief both of my mind from

anxiety and my stomach from sickness, the rain stilled

the waters. About twelve next day the weather was
agreeable, and the sea tolerably calm. We were on

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.       `I91

the North Sea. About two the weather changed ; a
breeze came on, which strengthened into a gale. To

wards night the ship rolled considerably; the water
dashed over the decks, and the vaunted power of

steam over the elements was as nothing: yet the

steam carried us on, though slowly; and after much

labouring and some danger, and much dripping, and
one death, that of an unfortunate painter, we made
the coast of Norway at seven in the morning,--my ex

Iperiments ruined, and misfortune to aggravate the
misery of sickness.    did not get out of bed till we

were fairly lodged in port at Rleve; for even the

desire of seeing a new country for some time did not

reanimate me to any exertion, so strong had been the

tossing of the wave.

   We had gone to bed in sickness, storm, and dark

ness: in getting upon deck, what a contrast! All

was calm, beauty, and repose. We were in the
bosom of a basin rather than a bay ; the water like a

mirror, beautifully green, and myriads of medusae of

the most beautiful colours, like animated flowers, mov

iug about us, some of them nearly eighteen inches in

diameter, and having antennae several feet in length.

Above our heads was a bright blue sky, seen through
a kind of telescope of high rocks covered with wood,
the wood of England--oak, birch, alder, and some few
pines, and wild roses, and woodbines. The steam

boat was so close to the rocks that we landed on

them by a board, and it was a matter of wonder where

she could have made her entry; rocks rose every

where around us. The rocks were granite, modelled

by the rude and primitive hand of nature,--rude and
primitive, as far as these elder foundations of our

globe are considered.

IQQ MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

   We soon landed, and walked over granite rocks to
the town of Mandels, which is on the other side of a

Ifine river. The idea of salmon-fishing reanimated us ;

and soon hired a boat, and we passed up the river.
The town of Mandels is built entirely of wood, and

seemed to contain very few respectable houses. The

inn was uncomfortable enough. Such beds! hardly

big enough. The rooms without plaister or paper,
displaying the moss and the out trees (pines) of
which the whole was built. Some of the women were

tolerably well-looking; both men and women very
civil, probably without the means of being hospitable.

The scenery about the river very peculiar. Rocks
rising like islands out of the sand, or really islands in

the sea, from 100 to 600 feet high, and covered with

wood; and so numerous and so various in their

forms, colour, and distribution of masses, as to be

very beautiful. The river was of the size of the
Tweed before it joins the Tiviot, and had the repu

tation of affording the best salmon in Norway. \Ve

rowed against the stream, the scenery constantly be
coming more beautiful. The woods came down to

the water's edge. There were some cliffs, but no pre
cipitous ones. The banks were green slopes, with
the wood peculiar to England and most of the flowers,

and beautiful meadows close to the water, which was

very transparent, with a hue in which amber predo

minated, but not peaty. The outline was generally

Iformed by rocks, some of which in the distance were
covered by pines.  threw the fly in vain for an hour,

and then let it trail behind the boat, when two or three

unlucky trout were taken, which were like the Eng

lish small trout. We were resolved to procure a
salmon for our dinner, andwaited till a net was drawn ;

                   N

            sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  193

Iwhen several were caught, one of which must have

weighed twenty pounds. ` purchased one about nine

pounds for two shillings. We continued till we were

stopped by a rapid, where the rocks came down close

to the river, and where the scenery was more wild

and upon a greater scale. Here we left the boat, and

walked about a mile, to the fall of the Mandels river,
which is rather a rapid than a fall,--a succession

.of foaming stream and pool, where the water leaps

from rock to rock, from four to ten feet, and over

which salmon easily make their way. The narrow

channel through which the river runs is very pic

turesque, and the birch trees grow close to the fall,
as if out of the granite rock. The sun was bright,
Iyet thought myself sure of a salmon; but my
I Iskill was vain.
            saw two or three rise, and one,

believe, at my fly; but neither this day nor the
Ievening had any success. Next day, Lord Clif
Iton * and
            went to a salt-water lake or pond,

where we caught four sea-trout, very good and red,

with artificial flies ; they rise very freely. Here the

scenery was exquisitely beautiful; a succession of
arms of the sea all like inland lakes, full of granite

islands, and surrounded by high hills covered with the

richest kind of vegetation; the rose, the Woodbine,

the cornel tree, and all our English flowers, and

mountain ash, and birch, and oak, in profusion.

Every moment we opened on a new scene as we passed

by in our boat. We asked if there was no fresh water

near, looking for a stream in which we might fish.

They carried us to a spot, where evidently a torrent

sometimes passed, and in less than twenty yards we

'found ourselves on the rocky brink of an inland fresh
                                        Late Earl of Damley.

VOL. 11.    `0

194, MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

water lake, as beautiful as the upper lake of Killarney,
and something like it. Here we fished without suc

cess; but we were recompensed by the agreeable na
ture of the scenery, which was exquisitely beautiful.

In addition to the other clothing of the rock, heath,

juniper, the blae-berry, were found here in abundance,

and the lake was 'full at the borders of the most
beautiful water lilies. In this lake, the boatmen in

formed me, char was found; at least from their de

scription it must have been this fish.

  I" was told of a fall on a river about six miles to
Ithe west.
            mounted a Norwegian pony, and went

with the son of the innkeeper. This journey the

scenery was beautiful throughout the ride. Two fine

fresh water lakes came in view, with many wooded

islands; the granite rocks assumed more the character

of mountains, and finewoods clothed their tops. The

road was rugged, and accessible only for horses and the
wretched little cars of the country, something like

those of Naples, and which, upon these rocky paths,
must be painfully jolting. The vallies for five miles

were narrow, and the scenery, lake and rock, covered

Iwith wood. We passed a mountain torrent, beauti.

fully banked and wooded, where saw a number of
small trout. After we had attained the summit of

the second mountain, we saw a deep pastoral valley
at the termination of a lake below ; and after mount

ing a second hill more cultivated than any we had

`passed, came to the river, which rolled through a

broad valley bounded by cliffs of granite, with pineit,

Icovered hills beyond. The river was full of green`

weeds ; saw a few trout in but no salmon. The
scenery was very beautiful all the way to the fall,

which was not very fine, A small body of water fell

perhaps thirty or forty feet; but all the rocks around

srn HUMPHRY DAVY.  195

 the fall were disfigured by saw mills, and the water'
 covered with deals, and hills of saw-dust close to the

 banks of the river.
     " After spending four days at Mandels we left it in

 the steam boat for Christiansand. We had a little
 rough sea in going out of the port; afterwards a de
 lightful voyage between rocks and islands, some bare

 and some wooded, and through channels sometimes

 not so wide as our vessel was long, and in perfect

 calmness. Here we saw the first sea eagle, and many

 birds which appeared eider ducks, and other water

 fowl. We arrived in fours hours at Christiansand.

 Here we met with great hospitality, dining out every
 day ; the first day with the Consul of the Hanseatic
Towns; the second, with the British Vice-Consul.

Count Reinhard, the Hanseatic Consul, took me to

see the Torjedale, which empties itself into the har
bour of Christiansand. The harbour itself is a very
fine one, with the peculiar Norwegian features of

rocky islands, high granite crags more or less co

vered with trees, and promontories generally topped
with firs. The quantity of firs was greater on this

coast than at Mandels, and the valley of the Tor
jedale displayed more fir wood than wood of any
other kind; yet, occasionally birch, alder, and oak

appeared on the banks, and birch was not uncommon.
The glen leading to the Torjedale was narrower, but

the rocks on a grander scale than anything we had
yet seen. The river itself; a fine majestic stream,
as large as the Rhone at Lyons, of a fine green co
lour and perfectly transparent, presenting every where
along its banks the unpicturesque riches of Norway,
---the white stripped and trimmed floating forests.
From a point of rock near Mr. Reinhard's country

                                               02

              `  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

196

Ihouse, saw a salmon leap in the river, just below one

of those great chains of fir which are placed to arrest

the wood floated down from the mountains in the

interior. The dinner at Mr. Reinhard's was plen
tiful, but a mixture of German and English, without

the kipper salmon and spirits. Toasts were given,
and wine drank with moderation,-- Bourdeaux and

excellent hock of 1811, and excellent Madeira; with

cherries, and strawberries, and green peas. Mr.

Mark, the English Vice-Consul, invited us to dinner

Inext day, --to dine and go first to the waterfall, where

he promised should catch a salmon by hook or by
crook. We went off at nine o'clock, and took boat

at four miles from Christiansand, and by the help of

Ifour oars went up the river, the banks of which are

of the same character as those had already seen,
-- rude rock, hills covered with oak, birch, and
alder, cliffs with pines above, and a variety of pool
and stream. At half a mile from the fall, the scenery
became wilder, and we were obliged to walk. We

went to a country house of the Consul's, and found

there excellent refreshments; kipper salmon, cheese,

and Hamburgh sausages, with white and red Bour

deaux. We soon came in sight of the fall, a magni-Y
ficent rush of water, no where perpendicular, yet
Imaking a grand display of one of the great machines
of nature.       should rate the succession of descents

(two being principal) at 1920 or 130 feet, and there
are many rapids below. It is disfigured by saw-mills,
and, in my opinion, by the rushing down and con

stant appearance of the floating wood; yet it was a

grand sight; and the fir woods upon the surrounding
hills, and the island which divides the river into two

parts, and the immense extent of rapid, all white

               sm HUMPHRY rmvr.                       197

upon green, had a very fine effect. N0 salmon rise

Iabove this fall, Which, in point of quantity of water,

think surpasses that of the Rhine at Schaffhausen;
but is inferior to it in perpendicularity and in pic

turesque accompaniments. We returned to dinner

at Mr. Mark's, where we again found kipper salmon,
anchovies, brown bread and butter, and various li

queurs. This was the prelude to the dinner. Our

first course was ham, and peas boiled with sugar
in their shells; then some salmon boiled; then

chickens roasted, with abundance of parsley in their
bellies; then roast veal; and last of all cranberry

jelly, most delicious, with cakes and sweet things.

We had plenty of fruit upon the table before din

ner, which seemed as the garnish, and both here and

at Mr. Reinhard's salad with cheese after dinner;

the salad being very good, particularly the cucum

bers, which had been prepared by being kept some
time in salt, and then washed, which makes them

tender, and abstracts their unwholesome juice, which

sep"arTawteos  in large  quantities.     your.finvls  with plenty
               culinary  hints .- Roast

of parsley in their bellies; place sliced cucumbers,
if you wish them to be wholesome, in salt. Another .

eat kippered salmon rate, `with pepper, and bread and

butter. Bourdeaux, Madeira, and port,. were the
wines all drank with dinner. Their toasts, their

healths, and short speeches, all during dinner. After

the cakes and the last toast we all went to coffee,

and then home, though the hospitable master of the

house offered us supper and bishop ,~ probably wine
and water hot.

   " We left Christiansand in the morning at twelve,

and atfour found ourselves safely moored in the har

                         o3

198 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

hour of Arendal. We passed generally within the
rocks, and had the same kind of scenery as in our

voyage from Mandels,--an immense variety of little
rocky islands constantly opening upon us; and some

times our passage seemed hardly large enough for
the passage of the boat. The harbour of Arendal is

very beautiful, and the town most singularly placed
upon a rock, with rocks surrounding it and deep

water close to the houses. Trees crown the rocks,

and neat little houses come close to the water's edge.

I went immediately to a beautiful wooded rock just

Iabove the town, where the Mandel scenery appeared
as if echoed upon the river of Arendal.  likewise

went to visit the iron mines, which are curious in

sienite, with all the rare specimens well known to
mineralogists. One of the mines presents a very fine

excavation, andyou look out upon a tranquil little lake,

with pastoral and wooded scenery around it. The

day after, a row to the fall of the river: not so large
as that of the Torjedahl, but with the same features;

the banks pastoral, the usual vegetation below, and

pines above. Where one branch of the river enters

the sea, close to the fresh water, and in what can be

scarcely brackish water, myriads of beautiful medusae

were to be seen; but none in the absolutely fresh

water. In the afternoon we went to Mr. Tiddi

camp's country seat to a feast, --a dinner where all the

neighbourhood was invited; where cabbage was the

first dish put on the table, after the usual prelude of

anchovies, sausages, and spirits. The anchovies ex

cellent. After the cabbage came ham, carved and

served, as by a servant-maid, by the young lady of

the house, a very pretty girl. After the ham cutlets

and peas dressed in the shells, then chickens with

.. sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                 199`

parsley; then cakes with jelly (gooseberry cake),

Iwith plenty of Bourdeaux and Madeira, and toasts

during the whole of dinner. When gave Liberty,

FREYHEIT, the whole party rose, and sang a song in

full chorus. My health was drank, and the Royal

Society, and the British Constitution, and the me
mory of Lord Byron. After dinner we all shook

hands, and then walked to see a most magnificent

view; the sea on one side, and wood almost inter-`

minable, with lake and mountain on the other, and a

thousand little ponds all surrounded with wood.

Some mountains, of apparently the `elevation of the

Grampians, in the back ground, but without snow.

We were struck at Arendal by the manner in which

the women were treated. The postmaster was rowed

to the Vice-Consul's to this grand dinner by a female

servant, who was rather good-looking and young,

and who dashed through the surge as a Thames boat-`

Iman would have done, with her great hulking master

sitting opposite to her. was carried across the lake,

Ifrom the iron mines, by a boat-woman. The ladies

speak only Norwegian; but saw pianofortes, which
marked at least the love of music. From the time;

we landed in Norway till now we have had no night;

Ithe twilight in the west is succeeded by twilight in

the east, and at midnight could read the smallest
print. The Norwegian rivers that we have hitherto

seen are all beautifully clear, and display their moun

tain origin and their passage through lakes ; the ten-.

dency of colour is to green, but no peatiness; nor
Ihave yet seen any river with that celestial blue
IWhich characterises the Rhone.
                                 caught in the

ITorjedahl two trout, and a sea trout about the size

of a large herring. In the Arendal river caught

o4                               `

Q00        MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE 0F

Inothing.  am sure the saw-mills and saw-dust must

interfere greatly with the fisheries in these magnifi

cent streams.

   " July.--We left Arendal at two in the morning,

and passed through our usual fine scenery, sometimes

almost touching the little islands covered with wood;

then branchng a few miles into the Northern Ocean,

and seeing between us and the shore thousands of

islands and rocks. We saw no seals, and the sea

Ibirds were not so numerous as had expected. The

male eider duck we saw in flocks of four or five,

flying like a black cock; one sea eagle soared above

us; gannets, gulls, sea swallows, and the oyster

catcher, were not uncommon. At twelve the next

Iday we anchored in the harbour of Laurvig; more
open than any harbour we had yet seen.  ex

amined my experiments, the results of which were

I Ivery satisfactory, and landed, and examined the
zirconite rocks.  saw zincon, believe, in one spe

cimen. The sienite very fine, with immense crystals
of hornblende, and the feldspar having in some

places the lustre of the feldspar of Labrador. The
arm of the bay of Laurvig wooded even to the sea ;

a small river as large as the North Esk, in which they

say salmon come up late in the year; but the usual

disfigurement of mills and iron works close to the

town.

. " Having no object for staying.at Laurvig, we
left it for Frederickstadt at two o'clock; and going

rather further from the coast, passed along islands

of alarger size, and saw mountains of rather a higher

character in the Norwegian land. We crossed the

ford of Christiana without ever losing sight of land,

and at five found ourselves amongst rocky islands

                  sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                201

topped with pines, in the mouth of the Glommen,
the largest river in Norway. The masses of granite-

in these islands are larger, the underwood and flower

bearing wood less, and the whole scenery ruder: the

stream rather whitish, but not muddy, flowed rapidly

a
                               a

                             I
                                                                       it,
by the rocks; yet we moved more rapidly against

and soon anchored before Medensfel. The fall of

the Glommen being only six English miles off we re
quested the captain to ascend the stream to it; and we
had most brilliant evening. dashing through the
rapids of this immense river, which, think, exceeds
in size the Danube at Vienna. The banks were
beautiful, but not wild,-- corn fields, wooded hills,

and some rocky cliffs. We anchored at the termin
ation of the rapid, in rush of whirlpool close to the

shore, and passed the night on board. It was amusing
to see the wonder ofthe people, who came out to see
this new phenomenon of the steam-boat going against

wind and   tide,   and who, from               their exclamations,
propably  took    us for Lapland
                                              wizards. A person,

who asked us to take him up the river, invited us to
his father's house, close to the fall and in the
                                              ;

morning the elder brother and our friend came down
to take us up in two carriages. We were soon at the
                  grand rush of water, not perpen
fall; which
I
              is
                   aa

                                          is
dicular, but in its descent does not make less than

100 feet of white water. It the grandest rush of
water ever saw, and after the descent boils and
foams for half mile. Salmon never rise above it.

Boats have been sometimes carried down, and dashed
with their burdens into pieces. From the top of the
fall, where the river perfectly still, beautifully
a
                       a
                                       a is
smooth, and quarter of mile at least in breadth,  it

                                                      is

grand sight to see this enormous mass suddenly con

QOQ MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

verted into foam and white wave, dashing with an

irresistible shock and a voice like thunder over im

mense masses of granite. Saw-mills are here like

wise, but less offensive from the immense magnitude

of the river; and fir trees seen at the bottom are
like chips and straws in one of our English rivers.
   " We left the fall of the Glommen at seven in the

morning, and at twelve we were at Struenstadt. The
coast was wild; we sailed between rocky islands co

vered with wood, principally pine, but sometimes oak

 and birch.  There was more of grandeur in the out

-
lines, but not the same variety as in Norway; but the

same immense masses of granite and the same my

riads of islands. The day was dark and stormy, and

harmonised well with the scenery.

                               " Sweden.

  I" had seen very little of the Norwegian inns, but
Ithe first specimen of a Swedish inn was far worse than

anything had yet experienced. The inn at Stron

stadt was dirty, the beds bad, the fare worse; rye
bread and bad butter; the only thing tolerable a
outlet, apparently made of minced raw meal`. This is
a good hint for tenderness, as it does away with one

of the great evils of fresh killing. Stronstadt is a
small town on granite rocks, with a variety of coast,

and its lands of the same character. A lake, con

taining pike and coarse fish, is emptied by a small
river which runs through the town. We got into a
boat, and fished for pike with flies. Lord Clifton
took a small one. On landing from the lake upon a
small promontory, we found abundance of berries in
the English state of perfection; cranberries, blae

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.          203

berries, raspberries, an unknown black juicy berry;
strawberries, and juniper berries. Lord Clifton col

lected a large quantity for three black game fowls he

Ihad bought for a guinea alive and of last year. Here

   bought a miserable carriage; and next day began

my journey to Gottenburgh, over heath, and a coun

try like Scotland, with abundance of blae-berries

growing to an immense size, and very good.

   " Nothing could be more dreary than the first

twenty miles of this journey; the country like Ire

land, or the worst part of Scotland, and generally

without wood; a slight cultivation of barley and oats,

but for the greater part waste; the post-houses

wretched hovels, inhabited by peasants apparently

very ill off`. We now passed through a large forest

of pines, and the country became rather more inte

Iresting; but there were no grand pictures. As we

approached to Questrin, where was to dine, the

country became richer, and wooded valleys began to

break the uniformity of hills and heath. A peaty

river, which is said to contain salmon, flows through

Questrin ; and here the whole valley is very fine, with
noble views of inlets of the sea, with the usual cha

racter of fiord, rock and wood. The sea broke in

upon the view more or less from Questrin to Unde

velle; and all the country may be regarded as pic
turesque, and has an air of comfort, and, Where

cultivated, appeared well cultivated. Undevelle is a

Itown close to the sea, the salt water flowing up to the
houses, and with a port.  found the inn very bad,

I Iat least compared with inns of England or France,
but not unreasonable.     do not know that ever

Iwent a more disagreeable. journey than that of this

day; not understanding the language, could never

Q04r  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

satisfy the peasants, who were rude `and coarse; and

my Forebode, though it prevented me from waiting

Ifor horses, did not secure me civility; and the pea

sants finding could not speak Swedish, endeavoured

to impose upon me. The weather likewise was stormy,

with a bright sun, and a road which was covered with

clouds of dust. The travelling is cheap enough; six

teen shillings in the country and twenty in town, each

horse, for six English miles. Forty-eight shillings are

equal to one-twelfth of the pound sterling; so that

each horse costs 6=Zd. the Swedish mile, and three

horses 1s. 8d. British for six miles.                 `

                   L" Wenersburgh.

I" From Undevelle, next day pursued my road to

Wenersburgh, and found the country improve. There

was a good deal of pine wood, with crags of granite,

and a succession of small wooded hills, with small

peaty streams ; the outline of the country was gener

ally made up of great forests of pines. At Weners

burgh, the great lake Wener opened upon me with

all the characters of the ocean: the banks are low,
Iand the horizon is more than one half sky. A little
below Wenersburgh  caught the first view of the

Gotha, a very fine, clear, and greenish river, about

the size of the Rhone at Lyons. It pours with great

fury beneath a bridge thrown from rock to rock, over

which we passed, and makes a fine rapid, or almost a

fall; there is another rapid or fall of the same kind

just below. The banks are well wooded; but here,

too, there are no very fine distances. A sort of ex

tended ridge of rock capped by pines stretches to
the left, and may have been an ancient bank of the

Iriver; f'rom its distant appearance, should conjec

              sra HUMPHRY DAVY.  Q05

Iture it to`be trap`: granite is the rock of the country.
   passed by some small lakes, over some wild heaths,

and at last came upon the white foam of the cataract
of Trolhetta, rising like smoke amidst the village.`

The river above is a fine, wild, and tranquil expanse:
at first it is tortured in its fall by saw-mills, but at the

second fall they disappear. Here` there is nothing
but the grand forms of nature; the bold, grand cliffs

200 or 300 feet high, covered with an almost infinite

variety ofkinds of wood, and capped by gigantic pines.
The water is beautifully clear, and the rapids and` falls

for nearly half a mile present a variety of picturesque
effect. Here a deep whirlpool beneath a fall of

twenty or thirty feet in height, and where the river is

pressed into the narrowest possible channel; there

Ia succession of rapids, and all white foam, and force,
and thunder.  fished, and caught nothing but a
Ilittle trout as long as my hand; though was told
of large trout of six, seven, or eight pounds, inha

Ibitants of the pool below the mill; yet the evening

was favourable, and tried my best flies and my best
skill. The inn was very bad; the master and mis

tress, the governess and children, feasting out and

Iplaying cards. It was on a Sunday that arrived;
I Icould get nothing except what brought and what
Imy servant collected in the garden, and was made
Isick even by this fare.
                          got up very early on Mon

day, and examined the opposite side of the fall, and
went round to the locks,--a fine work of art, where the

navigation is carried on between Gottenburgh and
the Wenersee. The locks are deep in the gneiss and

granite, altogether 120 feet in depth, and giving many
fine falls and effects of water, where they are to be

filled from the clear and beautiful stream of the

206 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Gotha. The first natural fall seen fiom that opposite

is very fine. There is an island covered with wood

in the middle, which hides much of the saw-mills;

IThe salmon never rise above the falls, and there are

very few of them; am convinced they can never

abound where there are many saw-mills and much
Isaw-dust.
            left the wretched inn for Gottenburgh
I Iat nine this day.
            got on much better; at least

had no attempts at imposition on the part of the pea

Isants. Throughout Norway and Sweden, the only

birds saw by the road-side, except a few birds of
prey, were magpies and hooded crows. The magpies

Iwere in myriads, and quite tame; so tame that
could have killed four or five together. The Swedes

and Norwegians do not shoot them, and animals soon

find out their places of preservation. There was

more beauty in the road this day, particularly by the

banks of a small lake, where there was a great extent

of wood and rock and some islands; but this lake

could only be called pretty. We passed through

some large fine woods, and opened upon the Gotha,
the banks of which down to Gottenburgh are green,
with a plain or fiat surface of heath intervening be

tween the river and the hills. The hills possess some

variety; and the granite crags and trees, and great
diversity of hilly outline, are not devoid of picturesque

effect.

   " Gottenburgh is principally built of stone, has a

few fine houses, and the Gotha and the harbour form

important commercial characters. The inn, as usual,

Iwretched. The cuisine insupportable. The bread
was cock-roach pudding.  swallowed one, and found

another. The fatigue of travelling, and the misery
of this inn, which was like an oven, the windows

              sm HUMPHRY DAVY.            207

having been kept closed, and the bad food at Trol.

hetta, altogether brought on a violent bilious attack,

Iwith fever, which lasted four days. The third day,

however, went to the marshes, and saw Mr. Bloom.

Ifield shoot what appeared to me to be a Finland

snipe. went out myself the day after, and shot two

or three wading birds, but found no double snipes.
I shot a young snipe; and they say the double snipe
Isometimes breeds in this neighbourhood.
Idoubt this.                              strongly

              found an old snipe, with a young one,
 Ithe common
                       think it very likely they
`
snipe;            and

have been deceived in taking the young common

snipe, which is larger and fatter than the old one, for
a young double snipe. Yet, the sportsman who

spoke to me at Undervelle said he had seen some

young double snipes, and he seemed to me to know
the habits of these birds well. He likewise described

the breeding habits of the woodcock, and stated that

Ithey were not uncommon in the summer in the great
woods of Sweden.  went out the next day shoot

ing, to endeavour to ascertain more about the Fin

mark snipe ; but found no double snipes, and killed

onlya duck and a snipe, and could find no Finmark

snipes.

   " This day saw the Crown Prince of Sweden, and

his Princess. He received me amiably, and talked

upon a great many subjects, and generally well;
seemed to understand something of chemical science,

and had general views upon all the sciences, and en.
Ilightened ideas upon education and the policy of
kings. He asked me to dine with him.      sat on

the left of the Princess, the Governor of.the town

sitting next her, and a lady of the court next me.

She has a beautiful upper countenance, and fine blue

Q08 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ieyes, but should think her constitution feeble`;

the granddaughter of the poor Empress Josephine,

and very graceful and gracious in her person and

`manners. She talked to me about her grandmother,

and Thorwaldzen. He entered into along conversa
tion with me after dinner, " dc omnibus rebus et qui

busdam aliis," particularly Lancaster schools, and the

atomic system of chemistry, and Prince Christian of

Denmark.

   " Mr. Nolan is a very hospitable and amiable mer

chant: lent me a carriage to come on to Helsingburgh,

Iand hired a man to take charge of me to Copen

hagen, and to take back the carriage. My first day

was to Falkenburg ; the road. was very pretty for the

first two or three parts, and then became very dreary,
like the wildest part of the low country in Aberdeen

shire. There was very little pine wood; and barren

heath and barren rocks formed a considerable part of

the country, with some barley and rye, and the rye cut,

and potatoes here and there, and peat bogs. At Fal

Ikenburg, I went immediately to the river, and fished,

but raised nothing. Next morning went out, and

soon roused and hooked a salmon, and fished with a
Igood deal of spirit till dinner time. killed four small
I Isalmon; two hooked and one killed having seen
Ithem under the bridge ; and in the evening killed
Itwo more. Altogether,
                        hooked nine or ten, and

killed six; but the largest was not six pounds, and

Isome of them were, think, the salmo eriox; but
Ithey were good sport, and took freely.
                                         think there
Iwas a place further up where should have had bet
Iter sport, and which saw only in going away. At
La Holme I saw a very fine river, and was half in

clined to stop ; but the wretchedness of the inn pre

             snt HUMPHRY DAVY.  Q09

Ivented me.  saw a man fishingwith a `very large

number of lob worms, with which they catch salmon,

but they seem to know nothing of the fly. ' My guide

at Falkenburg fished, and caught one grilse with a

worm. Neither at Falkenburg nor at La Holme are

there any saw mills, and hence, probably, the salmon

are found in plenty. They have precisely the charac

Iter of second-rate Scotch rivers, and are not so hardly .

fished; but doubt whether the Swedish fishery, even

in these rivers, can be reckoned superior to the

Scotch. A gentleman had been there three weeks

Iago, and fished without catching a salmon; and,
Ibelieve, raised most of the salmon that day in the

Ipools that tried. From the appearance of the river
I Iat La Holme, am almost sure should have killed
Isalmon there ; saw a small grilse rise. The colour

of these waters is peaty, and the fall at La Holme

is close to the road. From La Holme to Helsing

Iburgh the country has nearly the same character

as that have already described. There seems no

thing ever prepared in the Swedish inns for travellers,

not even the delicacy of kippered salmon. At En

Igelholme, had to wait an hour for horses, and like
Iwise at the stage next La Holme ; -for there over

took my Forebode, though he had been sent fifteen

Ihours before left Falkenburg. At Helsingburgh
I got a tolerable dinner, and a bed in an enormous
Iroom, probably the assembly room. Here had an
Iinterview with Berzelius, whom found in good
I Iplight, rather fatter than when saw him twelve years

ago. The next morning hired a boat for Copen

hagen, and left Elsineur and Hamlet's Garden on
my left, and in four hours landed in the capital of

Denmark.

voL. 11.     P

Q10 MEMOIRS 0F THE LIFE or

" Copenhagen is a pretty city; the palace a fine

building, and the houses well built, and the inn toler

able. The voyage from Helsingburgh was always along

the green fields of Zealand, which here and there
were crested with low wood, not unlike the banks of

the Thames, with many country houses, all of which

had an English fashion. We passed by the Three

Crowns battery, celebrated for its effect on the fleet

of our greatest naval hero, and were, as usual, strictly

examined at the custom house, which seemed to have

Ifor its object the extortion of money, rather than any
real desire to prevent smuggling.  dined at the table

d'h6te. The mistress of the inn was English, and had

been probably a housekeeper or lady's maid, and

had the manners which belong to the shabby genteel.

IThe dinner was very good, and the wine excellent.
  saw Professor (Ersted, and he showed me his ap

Iparatus for increasing tizermo-eleclro-magnetism, but
  have some doubts as to the multiplication. Found

that Prince Christian was in town the day after my

arrival, and went to see him. He received me in

Ithe kindest manner, without ceremony, and asked
me to dine with him the next day.  accepted con

Iditionally, provided the steam boat did not come, and
fulfilled my engagement.  found him very amiable,

in an agreeable country seat, living like an English

country gentleman. His villa was very like an
English country house of the second or third class.

IThe Princess found very much improved in health

and person, and quite blooming. (Ersted was of the

party, and some courtiers. The Prince walked with

me round his grounds, and after dinner took me to

Ithe King's park__ a deer park, like an English one;
very extensive, with some tolerable trees.  drank

        sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                             21 1

tea with the Princess, and then took my leave. The

public seemed to consider the Prince's grounds as

their own ; for there were numbers of persons walking

there, to whom he bowed, and had much of that

Icourtesy to perform.  He asked me to dine with him
                         obtained leave from Prince
again on Sunday.

Christian to shoot at Saltholme, where it was said

Idouble as well as single and jack snipes breed. went

there on Saturday, and found an immense variety of

wading birds on this low and flat island ; an infinite

variety of the Tringa kind, red legs, green legs, the
turnstone, the anocetta, the sandpiper -- Tringa
I Ialpina -- in its summer plumage, and exactly l.ike a
snipe.  think saw one double snipe; but was not

Isure, as there were no white feathers in the tail.

  unluckily did not go to the south side of the island

till late, and then my senza cura servant, threw me

out by not putting powder enough in my horn. The

Ichasseurs here are all positive as to the existence of
the double snipe asa bird bred in Zealand.           saw

in the collection of Natural History the Norwegian
white grouse, of the size of our grouse, and having

precisely the same summer plumage. Query, is it

not the same bird? Dined again with the Prince

on Sunday; a visit of ceremony,--thirty people, and

of course rather a bore. Went away as soon as pos

sible. On Tuesday, took the Kiel boat, and had a

pleasant sail to Kiel through the islands, and a most

wretched journey from Kiel to Hamburgh through

sands and deserts.

   " In going from Altona, August 8th, to a country

seat, my companion in the carriage, as if casually,

Isaid, " That is the grave of Klopstock." It was

under a lime tree; but lost sight of and asked
                       P
                          2

                                                it,

21% MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

him to be so good as to point it out to me in returning.

IWe returned at 10 o'clock, in a calm and beautiful
evening.  saw two large stones surrounded by an

iron paling ; Klopstock's, and his first wife's and his

second wife's tomb. On the side beyond the church

yard was an illuminated gate, and we asked why it

was so illuminated. At first I thought it was an

honour paid to the grave, and the memory of one of

the greatest poets Germany has produced. It turned

out to be a kind of Vauxhall, into which we entered,

and saw a rabble, not one of whom had perhaps

ever heard of Klopstock. Such is glory and great
ness ! -- such the illustrious dead! The poet of the
" Messiah" has, however, aname for this generation,

and we know his birthplace and where his bones lie.
   " This day went in search of the double snipe, and

did not find one; but Count Blucher, the Governor

of Altona, sent 1ne one, which was in excellent condi

tion, and probably a young one. It had no white

Ifeathers in its tail, but some whitish ones, and had

t`he speckled breast which have always seen in

Isnipes of this kind. The whitish feathers were spot

ted; whereas in the spring bird have always seen

some pure white feathers. II have now no doubt that

Ithe bird saw at Saltholme was one of this species ;
I Iand regret did not examine more the south part

of this island, where they are said to breed.
   " Hamburgh is a great commercial city, with

  plenty of . luxury and vice. The banks of the Elbe
` something like the shores of Zealand; and indeed

Ithe description`of green fields, marshy banks, and
              , applies to all have seen in the unculti

vated parts of Holstein and the Danish islands.
Hanover rises in the back ground as a group of

                 sm HUMPHRY mwv.         218

Iblack and wooded hills.             have agreed to go to

Bremen with Schumacher, to see Gauss and Olbers,
I Iand hope may be in England by Sunday or Mon
Iday.
       do not like, however, to go without a day's
Ishooting; and shall try again this day, August 9.
  I" did not describe the villages in Holstein ; but

at Keil the women appeared handsome, and upon a
large scale; and the houses of the farmers had a

Igrand display of culinary utensils, and looked in the
country as if all roof.        saw water meadows, and

Irye cut, and some oats and barley. The horses.ex

ceedingly fine and large; but should think with

less blood in them than the English horses: this

struck me in Denmark. The Danes and Holsteiners

appear to be rather fizz` headed, and a feeding and

Ismoking
   " This
           people. .     9.),        have been out in a flood

            day (August

of rain, and hunted over a great extent of excellent

moor,` and found fewer snipes than we should find in
the same ground in' England and Ireland,_-much

fewer than in Ireland and Scotland. But in that kind

of ground so favourable to the double snipe, a long

grass, with water covering and green, we found two
                         it

                                it,
double snipes; but, as proved, they were very wild.

One saw; had no white feathers in its tail, like
I

    ? aI

             it
the one saw in September at Venice. Query,  is

this bird      distinct species, or  is  this the summer

plumage

   " August 10.--I dined with Professor Schumacher,

whose amiable qualities have impressed me more the
more have seen him and after dinner crossed the
I                ;

Elbe to Hamburgh. `We were only an hour on our
passage; and the distantwiew of Ha`mburgh and
Altona, and the green pastures, and wooded banks of

                         r

                              3

214 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

the Elbe, are not unpleasing as a view. It was full

tide, and 'the water came very high ; so that various
wild flowers appeared, with only their extreme

branches above.

   " The day after we rose at six, and proceeded to

Bremen, through a country where heath and wood
were the principal features. On a heath near Ham

Iburgh, saw a covey of partridges, which,`with two

or three snipes on a moor near Rottenberg, were
the only game I. had seen from the roads on the

north. Forests of great extent, with small hills,
heaths of great magnitude, and cultivated but not
inclosed land, are the characters of Hanover. The

peasants were good-looking, the women handsome;

the inns appear better than any in the north; the

post-horses are good, but they are slow; and the

road,   though a work   of  Napoleon,` heavy.  had  a very
                            the inn late, and
   "   11th._Dined     at

fair supper, and found the inn tolerable. The next
day dined with Dr. Olbers, and saw with much plea

sure the telescope with which he discovered his two

new planets, and met Gauss. Olbers gave us an ex

Icellent dinner, and is a most amiable and enlightened
philosopher.  spent a very pleasant day. He in

troduced me to a `sportsman, who asserted, in the

most decided manner, that the double snipe breeds in

Hanover, and promised to send me young ones. He

says the males assemble in the month of `May, and

I`make a great noise, and that they breed in the great
marshes.      saw one in the Museum with the eggs,

which seems to confirm` his account.                *

I" find such difficulties made with respect to the
Ichace here, that gave up the idea, and on Friday

`came down to Bracken along and on the water, which

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                            Q15

has nothing picturesque; and this morning (14th),
I Iam on the sea of Vauderagg.`
                                 am rejoiced that
I made the excursion to Altona and Bremen: it has

given me a better idea of human nature; for Schu

macher, Olbers, and Gauss appear to me no less

 amiable as` men than distinguished as philosophers;
 and they have all the simplicity, goodness of heart,
 and urbanity of manners, which ought to make us
 proud of their name, and of the influence of intellect
`and scientific pursuits upon the morals, the habits,

 and the affections."

   Amongst his note-books a few other vestiges of

this excursion remain. Of a poetical kind are some

-lines written at Copenhagen, as the date indicates,

expressive of his reflections on the evanescent forms
of things, and the permanency of intellect :

                                            " Copenhagen, August 1. 1824.  Q
" Whatever burns consumes, -- ashes remain ;

   And tho' in beauty and in loveliness,
   And infinite variety of forms,

   The primitive beings shone, their relics sad

   Have the samepale and melancholy hue.

    Such are the traits strong passions leave behind 3
   Consumers of the mind and of the form.

   The auburn, flaxen, and the ebon hair,

   Take the same hoary hue ; the blooming cheek

  Of beauty, the bronzed brow of manly strength,
   And the smooth front of wisdom, sadly show

   The same deep furrows : intellect alone
   Does not so quickly waste itself; but like
   The tranquil light which in the ocean springs,
   When living myriads in succession quick
   Sport on the wave, it lives, and in the storms
   And change of things appears more beautifu` l,
   Triumphant o'er the elements."

The distinguished men of science whom he had.`
the good fortune  to meet he thus notices,  in those

                         P4

           MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

hskeetacmheussedofhcimhasrealfctiner,wrwithinicgh,inashisalrlaesatdydamysen: t--ioned,

   " Berzelius was the worthy countryman of Scheele,
and certainly one of the great ornaments of the age.
Indefatigable in labour, accurate in manipulation, no
one has worked with more profit. His manner was

not distinguished, his appearance rather coarse, and his

conversation was limited much to his own subjects."

   " Glrsted is chiefly distinguished by his discovery

of electro-magnetism. He was a man of simple man

ners, of no pretensions, and not of extensive resources;
but ingenious, and a little of a German metaphy

sician."

I" Gauss appeared to me a very superior man.Y

met him at the house of Olbers, in Bremen: a de

lightful philosopher, with a passion for astronomy

Ionly surpassed in ardour by that possessed by Schu
macher.    was equally pleased with the manners, '

Iwith the liberality, andsocial gaiety of these three

celebrated. men, withwhom spent one of `the most

agreeable  days  belonging  to  the  later period of my
                                                                                 `
life."
                                     \\

   The following year after the conclusion of the ses
sion of the Royal Society, he visited the north of

 IEngland; and during the Christmas holidays he

 passed a short time in South Wales. This collect
. from letters preserved, which he wrote to his mother,
 in his absence, and from lines giving expression to

trains of thought composed amidst the wild and
beautiful scenery of `Westmoreland.  `

. The latter are all of a serious, meditative kind.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                                                          Ql7.`

As displaying the workings of his mind, they may in

terest kindred minds; and in their humility, as well
as in their lofty aspirations, they may prove edifying;

-- two considerations which induce me to give them,
though they are unfinished fragments : --

                                              " Ulswater, August
A                                                                                                                          1825.
                  :
                ; is
                                                      is
                                                                          is
                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                      4-.
(( Ye lovely hills, that rise in majesty

Amidst the ruddy light of setting suns,
Your tops are bright with radiance, whilst below

The wave dark and gloomy, and the vale
Hid in obscurest mist. Such the life

Of man this vale of earth and waters dark

And gloomy but the mountain range above,

The skies, the heavens are bright. There                     ray

Of evening which does not end in night,
sun of which we catch uncertain gleams

.In this our mortal state, but which for ever

Shines from afar, wakening the spirit of man
To life immortal and undying glory!"

                                              " Ulswater, August 5. 1825.

(C It alone in solitude we feel
is
        isAnd know what powers belong to us.
                          ;
By sympathy excited, and constrain'd
                                 aBy tedious ceremony in the world,
                                         is

                                                   ,

                                                                                       ;
Many whom we are fit to lead we follow

And fools, and confident men, and those who think

Themselves all knowing, from the littleness

Of their own talents and the sphere they move in,
Which most little, -these do rule the world

Even like the poet's dream of elder time,

The fabled Titans imaged to aspire

Unto the infinitely distant heaven,

Because they raised pile of common stones,

A--nd--h--igh--er --sto-odThtheangrethaot se  around  them.
                                              ever

Obscure, indefinite and knowledge still,

The highest, the most distant, most sublime,

Is like the stars composed of luminous points,

But without visible image, or known distance.

E'en with respect to human things and forms,
We estimate and know them but in solitude.

The eye of the worldly man insect like,       is
Fit only for the near and single objects;

218 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE OF

The true philosopher in distance sees them,

And scans their forms, their bearings, and relations.
To view a lovely landscape in its whole,
We do not fix upon one cave or rock,
Or woody hill, out of the mighty range

Of the wide scenery, ----we rather mount
A lofty knoll to mark the varied whole, --

The waters blue, the mountains grey and dim,
The shaggy hills and the embattled cliffs,
With their mysterious glens, awakening

Imaginations wild, --interminable !"

" And when the light of life is flying,        " 1825.

        And darkness round us seems to close,
   Nought do we truly know of dying,

        Save sinking in a deep repose.

" And as in sweetest, soundest slumber,
       The mind enjoys its happiest dreams,

   And in the stillest night we number
  \ Thousands of worlds in starlight beams ,

" So may we hope the undying spirit,
      In quitting its decaying form,

   Breaks forth new glory to inherit,
       As lightning from the gloomy storm."

   This autumn he experienced increasing indisposi
tion; and, what was very unusual with him, he seems
to have experienced some flagging of that extraor
dinary elasticity of spirit which had hitherto carried
him lightly and joyously through life, over all its
rubs and cares. Thus, in a letter to his mother

dated October 9th, alluding to afamily circumstance
which occasioned him some anxiety, he says, " and

I Ibeing myself unwell, feel more uneasy than if

were in rude health."

   The following spring, that of 1826, after an ailing
winter, there was an increase of his indisposition.
This is described in a letter to his sister, which he
wrote on the occasion of our mother's illness: --

                  SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.             219

"        .        SISTER,                   " June 2d.

   MY       DEAR
I" have been much grieved, and somewhat alarmed,

to hear of my mother's illness. Pray write me by
Ireturn of post, and say how she is, and give me a line
every second day till she is convalescent.  hope,

however, most ardently, that she is no longer suf

Ifering.

   " Lady Davy is quite well; but have been much

indisposed, and now write with difliculty from rheu
I Imatism in my right hand and arm.
                                          think shall

not be well till the weather changes.
* `F
                  =l=      ¥=          #    1*

I" hope John will be promoted, and return in

October for two or three months, and that we shall see
Ifyou all well together in November.
                                       it please God,
I will certainly be at Penzance the last week in Oc

tober, or the first in November. With affectionate

love and kind duty to my mother,

                " I am, dear Kitty,

                               " Your affectionate Brother,
                                                     " H. DAVY."

   The hope expressed in this letter, of a happy
meeting of our family under our mother's roof, was
not permitted to be fulfilled. Our respected mother,
after apparently rallying from her first attack of ill
ness, was suddenly carried off by a fresh accession of

it. This happened in September, and my brother's
health soon after sensibly deteriorated. He experi

enced more frequently troublesome symptoms,-- such
as uneasy feeling and slight numbness of the right
hand, and sometimes pain of the forearm, shooting

 220 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

 up to the chest; with occasional inordinate action of
the heart, and occasional pain and weakness of the
right leg. By one of his medical advisers, the pain
 and numbness of the hand and arm, which on the

 whole were the predominant ailments, were attributed
 to an old sprain of' the wrist ; by another his indispo

sition was referred to increased flow of blood to the
head; and by a friend, a physiologist, to weakness of
the heart. He was rather disposed to follow the

 advice which was most agreeable to the convivial
 epicurean habits of London society, and adopt a
strengtheningdiet, as it is called, of animal food, than
 an abstemious regimen. For some time he ate meat

three or four times a day; but he did not improve.
 When he delivered that discourse which was his last

to the Royal Society, at the anniversary meeting on
St. Andrew's day, 18%, it was done with such effort
that drops of sweat flowed down his countenance;
and those who were near him were apprehensive of

his having an apoplectic seizure; and he was so much
indisposed after, that he was unable to attend the
dinner of the Society. That day he had the honour

Iof being elected President the seventh time.

    When returned to England in December of the

Isame year, went to see him at the house of his

friend, Mr. Watt Russel, in Northamptonshire, where

Ihe was on a visit. He looked well, but stouter than

when left him on my going abroad four years be

fore. ` But though he complained of his hand and
foot, and of general indisposition, he took exercise,
`and went out with his gun; and he was still on a
diet chiefly of animal food, and on a large allowance,
.his appetite not being bad. We travelled together to
London, and in a few days parted to go into different

sm HUMP`HRY nsvr.                                 221

I Iparts of the country. About a fortnight after, when
   was at Hilstone House in Monmouthshire, had a

note from him, dated London, begging me to come

Ito him, as soon as conveniently could, for he was
I Iill. In less than two days was with him, and
Ifound him much worse than expected, and labour

ing under a paralytic attack, affecting the right side.

It had come on suddenly while shooting at Lord

Gage's. On his arrival in town, to which he has
tened, he had put himself under the care of his old
and kind friend Dr.`Babington, and of Dr. Holland.

The medical treatment employed appeared to have
had little or no beneficial effect. As he gained

strength, however, the symptoms gradually dimi

nished, and we were very sanguine that he would

recover completely.

   Fortunately, the faculties of his mind were not im

paired, and he had pleasure in the moderate exercise

of them. During confinement to his room, he cor
rected the proof sheets of his "` Discourses to the

Royal Society," which were published in quarto, in

IJanuary, 18Q'7. From reading he derived much

amusement, or rather, should say, from being read

to. The kind of reading he was then most fond of

was novels and romances, and for some time it was

our almost constant occupation. He, however, then

contemplated the time when he hoped to be able to

resume his former pursuits ; and the first undertaking

he meditated was the finishing of his " Elements of

wChheicmhicitalwaPshicloomsomphenyc,"eda, ft--er  the same plan as that on

                                                  of original research, and

the verification, by experiment, of the results of other

inquirers; a design which, unfortunately, he was

never able to accomplish.

Q22 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

   By the 22d of January he was so far recovered as
to be able to undertake a journey to the Continent.
Change of air, the exercise of travelling, and change
of scene, it was supposed, would be of service to
him ; and still greater negative advantages were cal
culated on, in favour of his recovering abroad, in the
absence of the many annoyances and causes of inju
rious excitement to which he was exposed at home,
and especially as President of the Royal Society.
Some of these annoyances have already been pointed
out; and others of a higher kind might be men
tioned, indicated in those unhappy dissensions which
soon after broke out under his immediate successor, so
injurious to the interests of the Royal Society and
science. These are forcibly pourtrayed, at least the
spirit which actuated them, in that work which they
engendered, -- a work, from its " dedication" to its

I" conclusion," written in a manner little consistent

with the philosophical character, though hope it
may, eventually, serve the cause of science.*

    On the day mentioned above, we set out from

London together to go into Italy. It was a dreary

beginning of a dreary journey. The winter had been
open till then; that morning a snow-storm began,
and continued all the way to Sittingbourne, where we
slept. The following day was fine sunshine, clear wea
ther, and we had a pleasant drive to Dover. His

conversation that morning was particularly agreeable,
and principally on geological subjects. Many of his
ideas, he said, on these subjects had been appro

   ` Reflections on the Decline of Science in England, by Charles Bab

 bage, Esq. London, 1830.

         sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                    223

priated by others, and had been published without

acknowledgment of having derived them from him,

either through his lectures or in conversation. He,

on this  occasion, gave me the outlines  of  htishe"geCoolon.
logical  sketch which he has introduced  in

solations in Travel."

The following day we crossed the Channel in the

steam-packet to Calais, off which we arrived when

the tide was out, and had to be put on shore over

shallows, and through breakers, by Frenchmen, who,

by their mismanagement and bungling, appeared to
be entirely ignorant of the duties of boatmen. Be

fore we were landed we were wet; and we had then

to walk over the sands, and jump across streams of

salt water to get to the pier; and when at its foot,

we had to climb a ladder to reach its summit, rather

hazardous for any one not accustomed to `climb, and

Idangerous for an invalid. We were little prepared

for such a landing and scramble, and was surprised
at the manner in which he surmounted all the diffi

culties, and rejoiced that no bad effects followed.

   The next day was partly employed in preparing
for our journey, and in finding a carriage suitable to
the season. The one he purchased, a postchaise,

answered perfectly, and he used no other whilst on

the Continent. We proceeded on the great Paris road

as far as Amiens. There we struck off to Compeigne,

expressly for the purpose of avoiding Paris, and the
allurement, or rather excitement, of its society, which

he apprehended it would be diflicult to avoid if he

stopped there. Had we been aware of the badness
of the road, of the badness of the posting, of the de
lay in getting horses, and of the badness of many of

the inns, we certainly should not have left the great

Q24 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

road. The weather, indeed, was severe, and there

was an unusual quantity of snow on the ground, which

added to the difliculty of travelling.

Our plan was to go forty or fifty miles a day be

tween breakfast and dinner, which, with tolerable

roads and horses, would have been easy; but fre

Iquently it was dark before we finished our day's jour
ney.  remember, before we got into Compeigne we

were benighted, and obliged to quit the carriage, the
wheels of which were completely locked in frozen
ruts, about a foot deep, at the beginning of a steep

descent, and could not be extricated without assist

Iance. Wrapped in his cloak, helped him to the

bottom of the hill, and he did not escape a fall or two
by the way, from the slippery frozen state of the

road. It was then dark. By good luck we disco

vered hard by a cottage, where we were kindly re
ceived; and whilst the men of the family went out

to the assistance of the postilion and courier, we were

accommodated with seats by a blazing wood fire

cheerfully burning on a flat hearth in a great chim

ney, and had pleasure in seeing the comforts enjoyed

by a peasant's family at this inclement season. Not

unfrequently, `from the manner in which the roads

_avere obstructed with snow, we were under the neces
 sity of travelling over ploughed fields. Though our

carriage was tight, so as to exclude wind, and we

were well provided with warm clothing, and my bro

ther had a feet-warmer constantly under his feet, yet we

felt the cold considerably. The glasses were generally

coated with ice, and the thermometer inside below

the freezing point ; and a bottle of leeches in the car

riage pocket was frozen the day we left London, and
continued so till we arrived at Reggio. No one who has

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  225

not been out of England can have an adequate idea
of the discomfort of a French inn in winter. On

arrival we were shown into a room without fire; and

when a fire was lighted, for the first hour it was rather
a source of annoyance than of warmth, owing to the

volumes of smoke which it poured forth. We found

the freezing temperature every where within doors,

and the thermometer often, at a distance from the

fire, was several degrees below the freezing point.

Nothing could be more dismal than the country and
scenery the whole of the way to Lyons, especially in

the great plains ofChampagne,--uninterrupted plains
of snow, as far as the sight could extend ;--no object

to arrest the eye, except a village here and there

rising out of the white waste, or a distant steeple or
some solitary tree. And in the towns in which we

stopped, nothing to excite interest excepting the
churches, which in this part of France are many of

them splendid specimens of the richest Gothic,

belonging, it may be said, entirely to past ages,--the
majority of them neglected, and the few which were

used andrepaired in their interior of desolate appear

ance, damp and cold like the tomb; with which were

quite in character the priests who ofliciated in them
to naked walls, reverberating the sounds of their

chanting in a most melancholy manner. We often

visited these churches, and my brother never failed
availing himself of the opportunity of falling on his

knees, and in silence ofi'ering up a prayer.

  It was with some hesitation that we took the road

to Chamberry, to proceed through Savoy over Mont
Cenis into Italy. In the deep Alpine valleys above

Chamberry, we were agreeably surprised at finding

less snow than in the low country, and less intensity

VOL. 11.  Q

                     MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

of cold. Verdnre here and there appeared, bursting
out of the snow in sheltered hollows ; and even amidst

the snowy mountains, and the rivers almost buried in
snow, and the pendant icicles, and the blue and frozen
cataracts, there was a degree of liveliness imparted
by the varied aspect of the larch, the birch, and the
Alpine fir, which in forest masses so beautifully and

gracefully clothe the mountains. In his valetudinary

state even, he enjoyed very much this part of the

road, especially between St. Jean de Maurienne and
St. Michel, and St. Michel and Lansleburgh, where
the scenery is of the grandest character, and appeared
to great advantage, from the kind of weather we had,
--a cloudy sky and drifting clouds, and partial gleams
of sunshine, and occasional glimpses of blue sky, and
of the peaks of the Alps of dazzling whiteness.

   When we arrived at Lansleburgh, it was doubtful

if we should be able to cross Mont Cenis: the ac

counts brought down by the peasants were of an
unfavourable kind. There had been a storm of wind,
and a fresh fall of snow. We watched the pines on

the mountain heights with some interest, as indicating

the state of the atmosphere in the upper region. The
following morning, en traineau, the body of the car

riage on one sledge, and the wheels on another, we
made the attempt, and without difficulty reached the
inn on the summit. Here we were detained the re

mainder of the day, the wind blowing strong, and the

snow drifting, and the road beyond impassable: and

in this dismal situation we passed the night. Though
we had a large fire in our bed-room, which was also
our sitting-room, the thermometer in it was at 20°,
and in the open air on the snow at 10°. The follow

ing morning, the storm being over and the sky serene

sm HUMPHRY navy.  2Q7

and beautifully clear, we proceeded on our way, the
Sardinian courier having started before us about an

hour. Very soon we overtook his carriage, which

was stopped by accumulated snow. A large number

of people had been collected from the neighbouring

valleys, and were hard at work, forming a road; but as
we saw little probability of its being soon rendered

passable for our carriage, my brother accepted the
offer of two stout mountaineers, and was drawn by
them down to Susa in a small Alpine sledge with
safety and rapidity, though in a manner not very
agreeable, at least for an invalid, owing to the great
steepness of many of the descents, and the heat of the

sun in the very clear calm sky, and the reflection from
the snow. The carriage arrived many hours after, in

the evening.

   On entering Italy, we had hoped that we should
have taken leave of snow and the rigours of winter;
but we were disappointed. The snow through the
whole of Lombardy was even deeper than in the
passes of the Alps; in many places three and four feet
deep. The scene was quite arctic, not only on ac
count of the dreary waste of snow, but even more so
from the carts and waggons of the country being

taken off their wheels and drawn on sledges, as if

the inhabitants were familiar with snow, and prepared
for it. Owing to the severity of the weather, we

stopped some days at Bologna. When we arrived at
Ravenna, in the first week of March, the snow was

melting on the roofs of the houses, and was to be

seen in the ditches some days after.
   Notwithstanding this severity of season and difli

culties in travelling, and various annoyances in con
nection with them, my brother, at the end of his

                                                    QQ

                     MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OFit,

journey, was decidedly better than when he comit

IImenced it; stronger, less paralytic, and more active.a
                                 a
His own state and feelings at this period are well
described in a letter which he wrote to his frienda;
Mr. Poole about three weeks after his arrival, part of
                                      a
Iwhich, with Mr. Poole's permission, shall insert :--
  I" am, thank God, better, but still very weak, andis

Iwholly unfit for any kind of business and study.

have, however, considerably recovered the use of all

the limbs that were affected ; and as my amendment

Ihas been slow and gradual, hope in time it may be
complete. But I am leading the life of an anchorite,
Iobliged to abstain from flesh, wine, business, study,

experiments, and all things that love; but this dis
cipline is salutary, and for the sake of being able to

Ido something more for science, and hope for hu
Imanity, submit to believing that the Great Source

of intellectual beingso wills for good.
    " am here lodged in the Apostolical palace, by

the kindness of the Vice Legate of Ravenna, most

amiable and enlightened prelate, who has done every
thing for me that he could have done for brother.

    " have chosen this spot of the declining empire
of Rome, as one of solitude and repose,--as out of
the way of travellers, and in good climate and its
monuments and recollections are not without interest.

Here Dante composed his divine works; here Byron

wrote some of his best and most moral (if such

name can be applied) poems; and here the Roman
power, that began among the mountains with Romu
lus, and migrated to the sea, bounding Asia and
Europe under Constantine, made its last stand in the
marshes formed by the Eridanus, under Theodoric,
whose tomb amongst the wonders of the place.

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           QQ9

I I" After a month's travel in the most severe weather
ever experienced,  arrived here on the 20th of

February. The weather has since been fine. My

brother and friend, who is likewise my physician, ac

companied me, but he is so satisfied with my improve

ment as to be able to leave me for Corfu ; but he is

within a week's call.

  I" have no society here except that of the amiable

Vice Legate, who is the governor of the province; but
Ithis is enough for me, for as yet can bear but little
Iconversation.
                ride in the pine forest, which is the

most magnificent in Europe, and which [wish you

could see. You know the trees, by Claude Lorrain's

landscapes: imagine a circle of twenty miles of these

great fan-shaped pines, green sunny lawns, and little

knolls of underwood, with large junipers of the Adri

atic in front, and the Appenines still covered with

snow behind. The pine wood partly covers the spot

where the Roman fleet once rode. Such is the change

Iof time! It is my intention to stay here till the be

ginning of April, and then go to the Alps; for must
avoid the extremes of heat and cold."*

And to show further his state in regard to feeling

Iand thought, and the unsubdued energies of his mind,
   shall insert some lines which he wrote here, and

which are preserved in his note books : --

" In ignorance of all things we assume         " Ravenna,  March 1.

What reasonings most please us, and in things
The most unlike in form as well as essence

We trace analogies ; as if it were
A joy to blend all contrarieties,

                * Life by Dr. Paris, p. 4-46.
                                0. 3

230  MEMOIRS `OF THE LIFE OF

                        and to discover

     In things the most unlike some qualities

     Having relationship and family ties.

     Thus life we term a spark, a fire, a flame ;

     And then we call that fire, that flame, immortal,

     Although the nature of all fiery things

     Belonging to the earth is perishable.

     The lightning, in its fierceness  and  `its  power,
     Is of an instant only!
                                                                                  -
     The meteor's blaze lightening the visible scene
                                                                                  `
     As transient is !                                                            |

     And vainly should we search where these had been.

     The solar light, when the bright orb has sunk,

     Dwells not within known space ;

     And that which kindleth the whole frame of nature
                                                                  `
     Has no abiding place, although its source
     Is everlasting : it lives but to decay,
     And in its course a million miles are nothing ,

     It passes from and through the infinite.

     --So is our life of thought: we look not back
     Beyond a few short hours,         a life, a day,

     An age ; that period gone, we blend
     With future, and with past eternity."

                        " THOUGHT.                     " Ravenna,

                                                                     March.

     (I Be this our trust, that ages (filled with light
         More glorious far than those faint beams which shine
        In this our feeble twilight) yet to come

     Shall see distinctly what we now but hope,---
     The world immutable in which alone

     Wisdom is found, the light and life of things,

     The breath divine, creating power divine,

     The One of which the human intellect

     Is but a type, as feeble as that image
     Of the bright sun seen on the bursting wave---

     Bright, but without distinctness ; yet in passing

     Showing its glorious and eternal source."

                                                      " Ravenna,  April 2. 1827.

     (5 Our life is like a cloudy sky 'midst mountains,
        When in the blast the watery vapours float.
        Now gleams of light pass o'er the lovely hills,
        And make the purple heath and russet bracken
        Seem lovelier, and the grass of brighter green ;
        And now a giant shadow hides them all.
        And thus it is, that in all earthly distance
        On which the sight can fix, still fear and hope,

SIR I.IUMPI-[RY DAVE'

Gloom and alternate sunshine, each succeeds.

So of another and an unknown land
We see the radiance of the clouds reflected,
Which is the future life beyond the grave!"

I" Oh couldst thou be with me, daughter  " Ravenna,  April, 1827.
                                         of heaven,
    Urania! have now no other love ;

For time has wither'd all the beauteous flowers

IThat once adorn'd my youthful coronet.

With thee still may live a little space,

I.And hope for better, intellectual light ;

 With thee may e'en still in vernal times
 Look upon nature with a poet's eye,
 Nursing those lofty thoughts that in the mind

Spontaneous rise, blending their sacred powers

With images from mountain and from flood,

From chestnut groves amid the broken rocks
Where the blue Lima pours to meet the wave

Of foaming Serchio; or 'midst the odorous heath

And cistus flowers, that clothe the stream-worn sides

Of the green hills, whence in their purity

The virgin streams arise of inountain Tiber,

Not yet polluted by the lowland rills,
Or turbid with the ruins of the plains,
As when in sullen majesty he murmurs
By the imperial city's fallen walls,

Laying bare the bones of heroes, and the monuments

Of generations of the ages past ;

Or rest might find on that cloud-cover'd hill,
Whose marble rocks are clothed with brightest green,

Where thousand flowers of unknown hues and names

Scent the cool air, rarely by man inhaled,

But which the wild bee knows, and ever haunts,
And whence descends the balmy influence
Of those high waters, tepid from the air
Of ancient Appenine, whose sacred source

IHygeia loves: there my weary limbs
   might repose beneath the grateful shade
Of` chestnuts, whose worn trunks proclaim the birth

Of other centuries."

28% MEMOIRS or run urn or

                CHAPTER VI.

HIS OCCUPATIONS AT RAVENNA---PURSUITS IN NATURAL HISTORY---EX

TRACTS FROM/NOTE-BOOKS.---EXTRACTS FROM HIS JOURNAL THROUGH

SOUTHERN AUSTRlA.-- VERSES " ON THE FALL OF THE TRAUN."----

--PART OF A LETTER TO MR. GILBERT, RESIGNING THE OFFICE OF PRE

SIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. --CONTINUATION OF JOURNAL.

RETURNS TO     ENGLAND---OCCUPATIONS  I"N  HIS VALETUDINARY ST.ATE.----
NOTICES OF     HIS DIALOGUE ENTITLED       SALMONIA, OR DAYS OF FLY
I"ISHING."--'  CHARACTER OF HIS FRIEND DR. BABINGTON. -- EXTBACTS

FROM SALMONIA.

IAs long as remained at Ravenna, my brother's

time was chiefly spent in taking exercise, in reading,
and conversation. About eleven o'clock he com

monly got on horseback, and with his gun and dogs,

either wandered through the beautiful and extensive
avenues of the Pineta, then exhibiting the first burst

of spring, or followed the embankments of the marshes
of La Classe, in quest of his favourite petzardone ; or,
if disinclined for horse exercise, walked with me on
the ramparts of the city, then covered with fresh green

turf, and well exposed to the mild and freshening

breezes which at that time prevailed. Reading

Ioccupied a part of every evening, mixedwith con

versation either on what read to him or on miscel

laneous matters, and occasionally interrupted by a
game at écarté. The reading he then preferred was
Lord Byron's poems, of which we had procured a
convenient travelling copy, in one volume, at Calais.
The place gave additional interest to these poems:

               sm HUMP!-IRY DAVY.        233

he had there met their noble author and the lady of
his love`, under whose influence the muse of Byron
had made some of her best efforts; and at that very

time this amiable and talented woman was at Ra

venna residing with her family, and occasionally ho

noured our invalid with a visit, even within the walls

of a palace, the oflicial residence of those she 1nust

have considered the enemies of her race, the most re

spected of whom, including her father, were then in

exile in consequence of their free political opinions in

Iopposition to the government.                          .

After had parted from him in the beginning of

March, to return to Corfu, his health continuing to
improve, he became capable of more exertion, and
had greater power of amusing himself. He resumed

some of his scientific pursuits, and followed natural

`history, in connection with shooting, with much
zeal. The weather being favourable, he spent a con
siderable part of each day in the open air; and when

within doors, he found occupation in noting down his

observations, in examining the birds which he had

shot or purchased, or in making experiments.
   The contents of his note-books kept at that time

Iare copious, and fully confirm what have just said.

Under the head of " Hints and Experiments in Phy

sical Science," he gives an account of various experi

ments which he either made or proposed to institute,

relative to magnetism and electricity.

  He first proposes to try if there is not a radiation

Ifof magnetism from the sun, and likewise from the
moon. "        so (he says) needles may become mag

netic on exposure, though wrapped in opaque matter,

as tin foil."

               " The Countess Guiccoli.

28% MEMOIRS or THE LIFE 0F

   He next details several experiments which he made
on the effects of light on needles, the results of which
were not altogether decisive. He commenced them
on the 28d of March; and they are introduced with
this remark: --" The results of Baumgartner "" may

depend either upon the colour given to the steel by
oxidation, or to the negative effects of the oxide as

Ian electrical agent.".
On the 30th of March, he writes-- " had every

thing ready for three sets of experiments on the elec
Itricity of the torpedo, but the fisherman failed me, --
the animal was dead.  had intended to try, first, if
the shock affected the needle; secondly, if it mag
netised steel ; thirdly, if it produced heat."

On the following day he enters an account of an

experiment undertaken for the purpose of ascertain

ingif any electro-magnetism followsthe nervo-muscular
action in the galvanic experiment of the contraction of
the legs of a frog. He thus describes the result : --

   " March 31. --Tried an experiment on the thighs
and legs of a very large frog recently killed. Wire of

platinum was connected with the multiplier, and with

the two crural nerves, and a large piece of foil of zinc

was placed under the thighs; the communication was

made through the multiplier ; violent contractions

of the muscles took place, but there was no magnetic
effect. The muscles were washed in weak sulphuric

acid, but still there was no magnetic effect; but when

the platinumwire was inserted deep into the muscles, so

as to make a better conducting chain, there was mag
netic effect. The nerve is evidently not a sufliciently

good conductor to transmit electricity enough for this

effect, and no electricity is developed by thecom`raction."

* Annalcs dc Chimie ct dc Physique, vol. xxxiii. Pr 333.

sm HUMPHRY navr.                  Q35

Under the head of "Natural History, Notices,

and Notes," he collected a great deal of information

respecting various objects, and obscure parts of na

tural history about which he was interested, espe

cially relating to birds and fishes : as the locality of

the ombre chevalier and its peculiarities; the mi.

gration of animals; the history of the double snipe

or petzardone; the generation of eels; the different
Ispecies of the genus salmo, &c.
                                  have given the
Isubjects in the order in which they occur; and

may ofiier, in the same order, a few extracts in illus
tration, commencing with the " ombre chevalier,"

of which he gives the following notices : --

  I" Being in the neighbourhood of Geneva in the

beginning of February, was anxious to gain in

formation respecting and to examine this fish. My

courier, Borelli, was well acquainted with it as a fish

of prey, caught generally in the winter months, and

at that time not uncommon in the part of the lake

near Vevay, biting at small fish, and taken both by

hook and net. At Lyons I could find none; they

were said to be too dear to be in the market this

Iyear; but at Chamberry found that they were not

uncommon, being brought not from the Lake of Ge

neva, but from that of Borguet, four miles ofii There

Ihad been some in the market the day arrived; and

the day after my courier bought one, which he said

weighed a pound and a half, for four francs and a

half, probably double its price, as it was a second
sale, bought from a restaurateur. This was Feb. 11.

It was of a beautiful. silvery whiteness, not unlike a

whiting in brilliancy; the scales very small ; the form

exceedingly like that of a char; and the light greyish

green of its back very similar to that of the char. It

         MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

was fifteen inches long, and seven and a half in cir

cumference (the thickest part); there were no spots
on the body, and a few large cloudy spots on the
fins, those on the dorsal fin being bluish grey: the
anal fin was yellow, with a shade of pink; the pec
toral were reddish brown, and there was a slight tint

of pink at the origin of the tail. It was exactly like

a char, except that the body was silvery white.

" The dorsal fin, radii (counted with care) 12.
Bronchial (pectoral)  - - - 9,

Anal - - . _ _ 11_

Ventral  -            _--        _ 3,

Caudal   -            - . _ - Q/1,?

" The two last radii of tail cut, and therefore not

         The fish is evidently congenerous with
         am not sure that have not seen it in
I Iso certain.

the char.

England among fish from Windermere. Its teeth are

numerous, and large for its size; its stomach very

thick, and it is evidently fond of cool water. It is
said to be found only in the lakes of Neufchatel

and Geneva. How true this is my notes tell. It

will probably be found in other lakes amongst the

Alps which are deep, and similar in bottom to those
of Borguet and Geneva. Block's figure of this fish

is not bad, though he has not given the colours of the

fins.

  " I ate it for dinner the 11th. It was excellent,

the flesh approaching to cream or cheese colour; its

taste like that of a char: it was fat and delicate in

Iflavour, and one of the best fishes have ever tasted."

This description (I may remark) is partly from
notes taken at the time, and partly from memory.

           srn HUMPHRY DAVY.            287

We were then passing through Savoy on our way to

Italy; and I have a distinct recollection of the plea

sure with which he examined this fish, which he had

never seen before. It was brought just as we were

stepping into the carriage, and he instantly began

the inspection of it; and before we reached the next

post had ascertained its peculiarities, and noted down

the principal of them.
   The next notice is relative to the " Migration of

Animals," founded on observations which he had in

part made this winter and spring : --
   " There is some intimate connection between the

state of the atmosphere in different regions of the

globe; the double snipe, the quail, and the wood
cock, never leave their haunts in the south till the
temperature of the north is fit for them, and this year
the migrating birds are all late, the snows which fell

in the end of February still covering the north of
Europe in the middle of March."

   This is followed by a detail of observations on the
double snipe, a bird in which he took a lively interest,

ifboth as a sportsman and naturalist, ----- observations,

I am not mistaken, worthy of being preserved, as a

valuable contribution to the natural history of this cu
rious and little known species of scolopax. He com
mences by giving the names by which it is called in.
many different parts of Europe :

" The Double Snipe, or Solitary Snipe.
  Scolopax rectivolans, Lin.
  Petzardone of the Romans.

Starnotti    Neapolitans.
Coccolone ---- Tuscans.

Cavertone    RaVenna.
Cavretone }

Q38  MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

     "";g]l§:}::r } of Carniola.

     Trodecker of the Danes.

     Pool sneffer          North of Germany."

   _"He continues :  1 had often heard of this bird,
Iand seen it in collections; but the first ever saw

alive was in the Maremmi, near Venice, in September,

1816. It rose under my feet, and flew like a quail,

Istraight forward, showing white feathers in its tail : its
     a

                           it

                                             a

                                       I
                                            I

                                                                    it,
flight was short.    fired both barrels at                               and
missed it; and again had second escape, and then
took high and distant flight. It was,
                                                                       think,

about the third week in September: have every

reason to believe they are very rare in this season in

Italy. A person at Ravenna told me they were

sometimes found as late as October; but very sel

dom. The spring the great season of their migra

tion through Italy, from probably the 15th of March
till the middle of April, and sometimes later.

   " In the spring of 1819 killed one, the 19th of

March, at Maliana, near Rome, and several in the
                   is

                           I
                                I
same place before April 11th.      found them like

wise at Palude and Remito this year, and killed twoI
or three in the end of March. But the place where

  had the best opportunity of observing their habits

was at Colfiorito, in the Appenines, where took
                                            ; II
my station at Casa Nuova for three nights.                               ar

rived there the 15th or 16th of April; and the

morning that arrived killed five, and five after
     I

          a

               I
dinner; ten the following day; and four or five

the last day, in very short beat.
   " They were found in flocks; but scattered some

times eight or ten together; oftener three, four, or

                     140L

              SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  Q39

five ; and sometimes one or two, not near, but many

yards apart.

   " This year this singular spot was in the best pos
sible state for affording them shelter. The grass was

high in or round the five or six little lakes, filling the
cavities in the hills. The temperature was low; the

thermometer standing at 10° or 12° Reaumur, at eight

in the morning, and did not rise in the day to more
than 13° or 14°. The grass in the meadows is ge

Inerally high, and beautifully green, with a quantity

of moss; but found them likewise in coarser rushy

grass, where there was a little water.

   " Various species of waterfowl make this spot their

place of rest, in migrating from the south to the north

in spring: the dark purple ibis, here called corvus aqua
tica, four species of water rails, two not larger than

larks, different wading birds of the Tringa genus, &c.
    " In 1820 the migrating birds were later; and yet

the winter had been mild in southern Italy, and there

were very few ducks in the Pontine marshes. Pro

bably there had been more rain and snow than the

year before. There were some petzardone in the

Imarket in March; but though beat the marshes at
IRome constantly from the 10th March, found no

petzardone till April 5th; and that day, after a

Isirocco the day before, there came a great flight.
killed six, and Lord St. Asaph, who was with me, a -

few more, besides common snipes, at Maliana. The
I7th killed twelve petzardore, nine common snipes,
Iand four rails. The 11th or 12th left Rome for
IColfiorito.
              found this year the lakes full of water,

snow still on the sides of the hills, and no cover for

the birds ; the grass on the sides of the lakes was so

low, that the double snipes could not hide themselves.

240 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I found two petzardone on the banks of the upper
Ilake, walking about, and shot one of them.
                                             shot
Ione or two more, but had no sport. The petzardone

are easily shot when they just rise, and seldom make

a long flight; but after being raised two or three

times they run, and afterwards often fly to the nearest

wood. They lie very close the first time they are

Ifound. The smallest animal, which I suppose to be

the male, has darker legs, and found in one a little

red behind the ear. The organs of hearing are very

large, and they usually begin to rise when they hear

a noise; so that nothing so much contributes to spoil

sport as talking or calling to the dogs. They differ

from the common snipe in having a shorter beak, and

in weighing nearly twice as much, in having a spotted

red and white breast; and in spring all have white

feathers in the tail.
   " Being in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark in the

summer of 1824, I inquired into the habits of the

same bird. The accounts of all sportsmen are that
Ithey breed in those countries.
                                 saw a nest and eggs
of one in Denmark, in the museum; and the 8th or

9th of August one was sent me by Count Blucher,

Iof Altona, who said his sportsman had killed five or

six. It was very fat, and should think a young one.
It was exactly like the spring bird of Italy, except

Ithat it had no white feathers in the tail. On the 12th

of August went to the marshes, where these birds
are said to be found. It was a very wet day, a flood
Iof rain.
           found one, but it was very wild, and had
Ino white feathers in the tail.
                                 did not get a shot at
it. It was in the same kind of long rushy grass in

which they haunt in Italy, and probably in the African
rivers. At Gottenburgh, in the beginning of August,

                            sm HUMPHRY DAVY.    I241"

Iabout the 1st or 2d, looked the`marshes      over.

found snipes, and young snipes, and young reeves,

and ducks; but no double snipes, though the ground

appeared excellent for them. They appear here

later; so that probably they breed further north, in

the Lapland marshes, and a few only haunt the coasts

Iof the Baltic. That they do occasionally breed there,
   think can hardly be doubted. Even at Bremen, a

sportsman assured me of this; and at Undevelle, in

Sweden, another told me he had found young ones

not many miles from the town that could hardly fly,
and that were so fat that they burst in their fall. The

Bremen sportsmen assured me, that the males made
Ia noise and assembled. Query, Did he confound them
with ruffs?  have often heard them make a sort

of bleat or suppressed murmur in rising; a noise like

that of the bittern, but infinitely feebler.
   " My brother says they appear in the Ionian Islands

in March, and he has one shot in Corfu in May,--one

of three ; and he believes they are found in the Troad

in February, and he has heard that they are found

all the winter long in Sicily."

The mysterious subject of the generation of the eel

had for several years attracted his attention, and it
continued to interest him during the remainder of his

life. At this time he put down the information re_

Ilating to it that he had collected, both from authors

and his own observations. The extracts shall give

will relate chiefly to the latter.

He enters on the subject by expressing his opinion

that nothing satisfactory had yet been written on the

question ; and that notwithstanding . Sir Everard

Home's paper published in the Philosophical Trans

actions for 1823, endeavouring to prove the animal

VOL. II.     P.

24x2 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

an hermaphrodite, the problem of its mode of gene
ration remained unsolved. He refers with com

mendation to Spallanzani's excellent memoirs on fresh

water eels; who chiefly confutes the opinion that the

animal is viviparous, showing that what have been

called capillary eels are intestinal worms.

He is disposed to adopt the opinion of Malphigi

and Valisneri, that the two sets of fringed bodies an

terior to the spine are ovaries, which Spallanzani

doubted, because they do not become much larger in
the migrating eels. " But (he remarks) it is possible
that the migration is not owing to puberty, but a con

sequence of increase of size, and the greater difliculty

of keeping a large mass warm in winter. A little eel

can hide itself in mud, where a great eel would be

very uncomfortable; and the salt water, and still

greater increase of bulk, may be necessary to the de

velopement of the ova." He continues: --" The eel

in the sea is the animal to look to, and it is on this
I Ifthat have induced Sir E. to work.
                                             the conger

be the same animal, there can be no doubt of its pos

I Isessing the ova; at least have no doubt, though

still have of its double sex.

   "The fishermen of the Mount's Bay, who have

opened thousands of great congers, say they have

Inever found roe ; but this may be from the peculiar
character of the ovaria.  opened two in December,

1821, and found the large spinal fringes, but no dis

tinct ova. It would be well to examine the chemical

nature of these fringes in October or November, and

again in February or March. The young eels must

be born about this time.
   " That all eels migrate from the sea there can be no

doubt, and they seem to be born in different years at

sm HUMPHRY navy.  243

different times. In 1828, there were millions at the
fall at Ballyshannon in July. In 1825, at the same
season, there were hardly any. The first was cold,
the other a hot season. Or is the flesh water neces

Isary to the growth of the young eel? When, in the

winter of 1821, in not very cold weather, put eels
of different sizes into salt water, all the small ones
died; and the only one out of six or seven that lived
was nearly ten inches long. The death of the smaller
ones was rapid in proportion as they were smaller;

Iyet have seen eels of all sizes in summer, in pools
Ion the sea shore, but never, believe, in winter. Is

sea water a better conductor of heat?
    " The fact mentioned by Sennebier, that there are

eels in the Lake of Neufchatel, which communicates

with the Rhine by a small stream, and none in the
Lake of Geneva, where they cannot rise through the
subterranean fall of the Rhone, is another fact in fa
vour of my opinion. The experiment to make would
be, to confine large eels in salt water ponds, and see

if they become congers; and to confine a conger or
two in salt water, and see if they will generate fresh

water eels."

    These notices on physical science and natural his
tory were made between the 12th and 28d March,
and they are followed by others on the latter subject,

and on meteorology, sufficiently showing the activity
of his mind. Indeed, hardly a day passed whilst he
remained at Ravenna, that he did not make some

entry into his note-book, describing either a fact he

had observed in his day's exercise, or some information

he had collected from a brother sportsman, or the

result of a. dissection of a bird or fish, or a hint for
an experiment, or the state of weather and his own

                                               It 2

244           MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE 0F

feelings as an invalid, intermixed occasionally with

Isome short expression of religious and grateful feel
ing.   shall introduce a few instances :
" March 16th. --The high soaring of the swallow

indicates fine weather; because the warm air is above,

and in the warm air flies are found, and the swallows

follow them.                                     .

" Here, at Ravenna, the 14th and 15th of March,

when the thermometer was at 60° or 58° in the even

Iing, saw bats flying about, the first that have ap
Ipeared since December 31st, when saw them in

England on the coast of Sussex. Have they intervals

of torpidity, and do they wake for a day and then.
sleep again? This evening (the 16th) the thermo
meter was below 54°, and no bats made their ap

Ipearance.

   " On the 14th made use of two leeches, which

bit immediately, and performed their oflice well ; yet

they had been frozen fi'om January 23d to February

22d, and had been sometimes exposed (as on Mont
Cenis) for more than fifteen hours to a temperature
below 10° Fahrenheit. They were thawed very gra

dually, and appeared dead when first thawed, but

recovered in some hours in a warm room. They had

all (there were twelve) adhered together in a sort of
ball, and were precisely in the centre of the bottle, at

Ithe greatest distance from the cooling causes.
" Q4~th.--This day  dissected a spigola (Perca

Imarina), a fish said by Cavolini to be an herma
phrodite.     could see no distinct melt, so as to be

convinced of its double sex. ` The ovaria were very
small loose bags, and of course were quite in an

immature state. It was said to be a pound and a

half.

sm HUMPHRY DAV Y.                                               245

" '29th.--Beat the marshes, where a sportsman told

us he had seen a petzardone yesterday, but found no
thing. Met a sportsman, who had beat them before

Iin the morning, and who had killed a double snipe,

which bought. Examined it minutely. The legs

as well as the breast spotted; there was no red behind

the ear; the legs of this were pale green. My guide

says that one was killed on the Q4.¢h; they are now

certainly come.

   " Saw a crane at the Classe this morning, a magni

ficent bird. Saw an eagle last week soaring above

the Pineta.        not shoot,                                .  thanks to

` " April 6.--Did              but returned

the Great Cause of all Being, for all his mercies to

Ime, an undeserving and often ungrateful creature;

but now most grateful. May become better, and

more grateful, and more humble-minded every day!

   " A beautiful day, but a strong and cold-feeling

wind : thermometer in the shade at three 63°, and its

moistened bulb 58°, so that the difference is 10'.

Wind east.
   " 7th.--A sportsman here, Civilieri, says he has

always seen petzardone from the last week in Sep
tember till the middle of October. Do they come

singly and not in a flock, being guided by the search
of food, and not by the reproductive instinct?"

   He remained at Ravenna till about the 10th or

`11th of April, and then proceeded northward, for the

purpose of avoiding the daily increasing heat of Italy,
with the intention, which he fulfilled, of passing the

summer in his old haunts amongst the eastern Alps.
    The journals which he kept during this period, like

the one referred to, are very descriptive of his state
and feelings, as well as of his pursuits and zeal in

                   R3

246 mzmoras or THE LIFE or

prosecuting them. Many parts of these journals are

to me very affecting, as, when recording his wretched

health and often miserable sensations, during the

struggle he was unremittingly making by all possible
                            of his ailments, " Valde misera
bmileisa!ns"  to  get  rid  unfrequent expression; and com
              is  not  an

monly accompanied with mention of diminished power

of limbs and general feebleness, with pain and numb

ness of limbs. Sometimes he is in despair of recovery,

and resigned to his fate ; at other times indulgingin

hope, thankful for feeling better, and expressing
thanks (and he does it very often) by the use of let

ters, as G. G. D., O. O. 0., or G. O. O. D. There

is consolation in witnessing this elasticity of mind,
and the power of enjoyment also which he possessed
in the exercise of its best faculties. In him, mind

seemed to triumph over matter, and the mental part

Iover the corporeal ; and his own instance is one of the

best know in favour of the train of argument he was

wont to maintain against the materialists, who hold

organization to be all in all, and life and intelligence

results merely of corporeal arrangement.
   The natural strength of his mind, it appears to me,

was very clearly manifested under these circum

stances. Dependent entirely on his own resources;
no friend to converse with ; no one with him to rely
on -for aid, and in a foreign country, without even a

medical adviser; destitute of all the amusements of

society; without any of the comforts of home--month

after month, he kept on his course, wandering from
river to river, from one mountain lake and valley to
another, in search of favourable climate; amusing
himself with his gun and rod, when sufficiently strong
to use them, with " speranza" for his rallying word.

            sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                247

But all this will better appear in the extracts which

I shall give from his journals, and which, for the sake
Iof brevity, shall introduce as fragments.

   From Ravenna he went by way of Gorizia to Lay
bach, in Illyria, where he arrived on the 19th of

April.
   " Gorizia, April 15. -- The country beautiful, in

the first youth of the year, quite a garden cultivation
round Gradisca and Gorizia; a good mode of culti

vating the vine by training it from one polla.rd cherry

tree to another; the cherry-trees are so cut that a

few perpendicular shoots for fruit remain.
I" The Isonzo of a beautiful pale azure, with slight
milkiness.  could see no fish. This river from a

subterraneous source, and rising in limestone."
   He remained at Laybach till the 28d of May, daily

occupied in shooting and fishing in the adjoining

rivers and marshes, in connection with the pursuit of
natural history ; and, in point of health, gaining rather

than losing ground.

   " Laybach, April 19. --- Ascertained by disagree

able experience that rivers which run from lime
stone rocks are not always clear. The Wipaco, which

on Monday was beautifully clear, though large, be

Icame after the hard rain of a night milky, and

could not raise a fish ; and they say it will be two or

three days before it is clear again.
*Q #
                    #                 'Il   #              `

" 24<th.-- Yesterday went to the Save, which

on the 22d was small and blue; this day it was at

least ten times as large, and quite foul, like the

IDrave in summer. This day went into the marshes

in the boat; found one jokelta, which killed, --a

fine large one, which my chasseur says is a female.

            R  (ii

248 MEMOIRS 0F THE LIFE or

IThe male, he says, is smaller and darker. Found

a quail, which likewise winged, and now keep alive

to observe its habits. `
              # if= * # =I= *

  I" 28th._There are no eels, am told, in any of the

Irivers that communicate with the Danube. The eels

saw here in the market were from Trieste. There are
no eels in the Chernate See, or in any of these rivers. '

Is this owing to a want of the congers in the Black

Sea, or to some great fall in the Danube, which they

cannot pass P     *=I=          `

       l= =¥      =X=                            1=

" Saw two eagles, one of`them .very large, with a

white tail, followed by a flock "of crows. The wea

ther is now become beautiful; the mountains, which

last week seemed quite near, now appear at agreat

distance; the air is become dry.
   " The quail, who was very quiet, has become very

impatient, and pecks at the window constantly.
   " 29th.--Went to the fall of the Zeyer, a beautiful

spot ; fine wooded hills in the near view, and the bold

and snow-clad mountains of Carniola and Carinthia

beyond. The water beautifully clear and blue. Saw
great quantities of fish showing themselves in the

water, with bright sides, called here breet fish, or

bred fish. Query, the Ida carp?
   " They said there were hucho, grayling, and

Itrout ; but caught nothing ; and from the quantity
Iof coarse fish, doubt if it is ever a good fishing spot.
IBut the day was as bright as the river, -- sun without

a cloud; and was at the spot in the worst time of

the day, between one and three ; saw a very few flies,

like the granam, but there was no rise of fish.

# `#           *  `-ll=     l=                   *=

              sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                249

. " May 2. --Went to the Kaltenbrun, or Fall of

the Lubiana. Saw some huchos rise at small fish,

and put on. my trolling tackle; was exceedingly un
lucky: lost two sets of hooks, and at last hooked a

Ilarge hucho, think near two feet long. He played

manfully, and fought for a long while in the great

Ideep rapid below the bridge; there was no landing

place. He was hooked with minnow tackle. threw

Imy rod into the water, which was recovered by my

assistants, and got him, fairly tired, to land; when

my courier, in his haste to snatch him up, broke the

Ihooks which held him, and let him slip into the
water, where he finally escaped.                                   never saw such a

Ipiece of ill luck, after so many narrow escapes, before.
   think he was above seven pounds, but fought with
                       salmon -- much
less  energy  than  a                                           `  as a  trout would

do. He took a small roach.
" The views were extremely beautiful, and the

mountains appear in the ride round the Kaltenbrun

rivalling those of Switzerland in grandeur, -- the

whole scene abounding in beauty.                                         =l=  #

     # `K # 1

   " 6th. -- Temperature only 5Q° at six (N.

Irose above 6Q° in the middle of the day. Went to a

small stream called Kleingrabrun, where caught a
grayling with a fly, and a hucho with a small fish:

the hucho was about a pound, with black spots, a

white belly, and very narrow compared to its length,
aboutthe ratio of six to thirteen, but thick. Dorsal
radii, 11. Pectoral, 15. Ventral, 10. Anal, 11,

Caudal, 20, or 21.
   " The huchos in this last stream have, probably,

Iless food than in the Laybach river; for hooked a
Ismall one with a fly, but this escaped ; and hooked

250 1unnoms'or THE LIFE or

another larger one, probably more than two pounds,

who likewise escaped with a small fish. These fish
seem peculiarly fitted for the tributary streams of the

Danube, which abound in coarse food for the hucho.

A hucho would starve in most of our mountain rivers.

   " These huchos, this day, ran with great violence

at the small fish, which were roach and dace; and yet

the stream was a clear mountain stream, running over

limestone. The guide says there are few or no trout

in this stream, which is haunted by huchos and gray

ling; and the huchos are of all sizes. This seems to

Ishow that it is not a fish which goes to the sea after

being born. The hucho dissected this day was

a male, but the melt very slightly developed, and

it evidently would not spawn this season. Quere, is

residence in the sea, or large river, or lake, necessary

to give full development to the sexual organ, or is

it a phenomenon dependent on age ? The hucho seems`
                                                      `
a solitary fish.
# 3? II= `I # i`

   " 7th. -- Observed the difference between roof of
thatch and of slate, after the rain. The rain poured

in torrents fi'om the slate, but less violently from the

thatch ; but the thatch continued dripping when the
slate was quite dry. This offers a good analogy to

drained, or rocky, or cultivated countries, and boggy
or wild countries. The rivers in one case are rapid,

and soon exhausted torrents ; dry in summer. In

the other, nearly perennial and equable streams.
*  =I=
                                         ,-=)i= 1  #     #

" May not the hucho be originally of the sea, and

have, in course of ages, changed its habits, but pre
served the instinct of migrating from the larger to the

smaller rivers to breed and, probably in winter,

                  14¢

                     sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                           251

leave the Alpine torrents for the warmer and deeper
streams of the Danube, and its tributary large feeders,

the Drave, the Save, &c. ?

   " To examine if there be not varieties of these fish

depending upon the waters, which they haunt, like

Isalmon. The hucho here has no spots on the fins;

but as yet have closely examined no large one.
    *#
                           3* .  '|t   # `K=

                                        a
                                                                        a
    " 12th.---Wet day, thermometer 57°. Moist, ther

mometer 55°.         saw yesterday in the Laybach river
              aI
the alder fly, and some few olive May-flies. \Vent inI

the rain up the river, and found great nuinber of

rails. Shot in very short beat nine rails and

quail, and chasseur one rail and one quail. My bag

this day the best have had--- twelve. The dogs
behaved well; and the rails, though they ran hard,

were most of them raised.
   " These meadows seem excellent for them there
                                                    ;

                                                          jo
is  much water; they are now too grassy for

kelta; but the short grass forms the haunt of the

qua"ilsI,t  and the  long  grass of the rails.      animals
             would
                     seem  as if all the migrating

moved onward till they found their proper places.

First, common snipes come here; then, when the

the grass too long for them, jokelta; and then rails.
The jacks breed in the marsh, which no other birds

                                                                                            `

except plovers haunt.

   " The male rail has larger body and darker
throat, and more of blue feathers. One of the rails
            is
                                        a
                                                                             a

shot  this day was with egg.     rain over, but moist,
      Thermometer at four, 63°
   "          it

                                a
                                              ;

                                                      a

                                           I
                                                                   it
thermometer 61° only. Weighed male quail;

was 1600 grains: and male rail, the largest be
lieve of ten; was 2675, and larger than most of

Q52 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

the others by 3 or 400 grains. The sizes of the

males and females not determinate. Some males larger

than some females, and vice versa. The male rail

known by blue feathers in the throat, the female by

the yellow.

i= ll # I` #l= C

" The rails now in great abundance, and likewise
I Ithe quails.
                have no doubt, if were well and so
Idisposed, could kill thirty rails in a day and twenty

quails."             * Q *#
            is
       #          =ll

We shall now follow him in his further wanderit

ings through Upper Austria, Bavaria, and Switzera

land, back to Illyria; wanderings in which he whiled¥
                                               ;
away his time from the 23d of May, when, as already
mentioned, he quitted Laybach, to the 11th of Au     a

gust, when he returned to it: --                         it
   " May 25.----A disagreeable day's journey to
                                                                                                            :
Gratz; hot and windy, with an oppressive air

(sirocco), and the dust always before the carriage.

Temperature at Gratz too high, and the air feels

oppressively warm. Thermometer in my room win

dow 6<t°. Remarked that the dogs (German) attack
whoever does not stink of tobacco,
                                           being cha

racteristic either of beggar or stranger.
                        1= *
=l|=         #       #                                                                                         ll

" 28th. Eisenarz._A beautiful day. Passed some

snow on the road, and found the temperature agree

able. The whole scene round this place fine snow

in spots on the mountains but wood and rock enough
to give variety. Comfortable inn. Thermometer in

my room 56°; in the window, at nine, 5Q°; and as

the night    clear,  will probably b.e much lower.

       Il=   fi=        =3 `R                                                                                  *.

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.              258

  --" 29th. Went to the Leopoldsteensee. Caught

in the Reva, running out of this lake, four trout,

one beautifully coloured like a char, except that the

spots were vermilion. Struck this day by the ex

treme similarity of the char and ombre chevalier.

A large char, got from the lake, was exactly like it

in colour of flesh, and differed from it only by more
pink on the belly. In my window at nine, thermo

meter 55° after a beautiful day.
   " From the similarity of the char of the Leopold

steiner Lake, and the ombre chevalier of the Lake

Iof Borguet, am induced to make some observations

on the physical causes which, by changing the habits,
in many generations may change the forms of fish.

The trout, when it feeds principally on fish, must be

extremely active and strong; and may, fiom its pre

datory and mobile habits, acquire large teeth, large

fleshy fins, thick skin, and great pectoral fins for
turning; when it feeds on shell-fish, it may gain

the stomach `of the char and its colours, as in the

Gillaroo trout: and the char, when it becomes large,

is extremely like, if not the same with, the ombre

chevalier. The colour likewise varies with the

water; in the clear water coming from this lake,

and the Koenigsee, the trout are beautifully coloured,

Iprobably from the influence of light,---silvery white,
with bright vermilion spots.  have seen the same

differences in Cornwall at Castle a Denis, which are

continued by generative impressions: two streams, one

from a moor yellowish brown, producing black and

yellow trout; one clear with a sandybottom, producing

white trout with red spots. There are in the Leo

poldsteensee lacts forelle, large trout 18lbs. and

Q54 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

more, with silvery bellies and redflesh. Are these
great char, or trout like those of the Lago di Garda?

  I" The habits of the spawning of fish must be in

fluenced by weather; the char got this morning

with mature eggs was just about to spawn, yet in

England they spawn in winter.
I" 30th.--A beautiful day, thermometer 58° at eight
in room, and 60° in window; warm.  went in the

carriage to the fall of the river that feeds the lake.
The scenery very beautiful; fine woods, with lawns
in the middle of them, and some spots of beech and
oak. The river clear and cold. The trout lying at

Ithe bottom, and did not take any notice of the fly.
  never saw a clearer stream ; the intervals of grassy
lawns covered with flowers; a beautiful species of

dwarf sweet-smelling rhodedendron. Fished again

in the river running from the lake, but raised only

one fish; no fly on the water. Is this owing to an

approaching storm? Thermometer 65° in my win

dow, and 66° as the storm began with rain and

thunder.

   " Ascertained that the char is not distinguished by
colour as to sex, for of two pink fish one was male

and the other female; and of two others almost as

pale as the ombre chevalier, there was the same dif
ference,-- one male and the other female. It is

now raining hard, yet the thermometer is rising, and

is now nearly 67°. Is the vapour from the warm
air, which has been rising all day, condensed, and

coming down in rain, and bringing with it warm air?

There is a perfect calmness; half past six. .The
scenery round the upper part of the lake very magni
ficent. Nature in her rudest dress, but not devoid of

srn HUMPHRY DAVY.                             Q55

beauty. Wood and rock predominant over snow;
 or even in the upper peaks it is only in patches.

   " Deo O. O. O. and H. A. and G. G.
   " 81st. Eisenarz. --Another beautiful day. Ther

mometer at four in window 54~°; bright blue sky, and

the swallows soaring high, but not higher than yester
night in the storm, when the red light of evening,

shining upon the rain clouding a mountain and a

broken rainbow, gave a peculiar character to the
view ; one great peak in sunshine, others black from

clouds and reflected shadow.

   " Went to the waterfalls by the mountain road;

views very fine, and ascent and descent tremendous.

Saw none of the Alpine animals, though there are said

to be many chamois, and great gras. Returned to
the river, and fished for half an hour, and caught

with the black fiy three trout, exactly like the burn

trout of England, Ireland, and Norway. The day

not so hot to my feelings as yesterday,-- more wind;

the thermometer under 65° at five in my room. The
Ilargest trout that caught this day has ova developed
Ilike most of the char, but far from mature.
                                              have

seen no fish in which the ova were so mature as the

char mentioned the Q9th. After two appears to me
the best time for fishing in these Alpine torrents;

the water is then warmest, and the fish come to the

surface.

   " At nine the thermometer, which had been from

65° to 63° till eight, had fallen to 60°; a beautiful

Inight, with a crescent moon and a blue sky. In the

lake here observed very large minnows; so that

there are trout, char, and minnows.

    " June 1. Eisenarz.----A beautiful day for the

journey to Admont. The road by Raflling very

256 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ibeautiful, but the mountains high, and did not

arrive at Admont till nine o'clock; was thirteen

hours on the road, and three of them owing to
                                                 `

accidents.

   " 2d. Admont. -- Thermometer at 65° in the win

dow in my room. The views very beautiful; but,

Ialas! cannot enjoy them. Though weak by evacu
I Iations, have a headach, and fear some conges
Ition of blood in the brain ; yet have fasted and kept

I Iup constant excitement on the nape of the neck by

acetic acid, and have applied since wrote three
leeches to the temples, and behind the ear. Ther

mometer 67°. Here are stags, roes, and chamois

surrounding this secluded residence, and for a strong
and youthful lover of the chace and of nature it

would be a delightful residence."

*'llr                    '16  `35 it           *
                           :
" 4<th.--Left Admont for Aussee,--a wet day.
At Aussee almost cold thermometer in window 545'.

The river very full, and the high mountains all

covered with snow. The dark clouds give pecu
liarly fine effect to the scenery, and the abrupt, paleis a
rock contrasted with the dark pines. It
                                               avery

striking place in wood, rock, lake, and river

scenery.

   " 5th.--Rain in the morning, but cleared at eleven
o'clock. Went to the river that runs out of the

(Edersee; very beautiful scenery.  I  caught ten

trout, one about pound, like the brook trout of En
a
       a

                   a
                      a
gland. The sabling lives here well in stews in the

river. A fisherman of Aussee went with me. His

flies had hair-link too coarse; his mode of fishing

with minnow curious, and not bad, had his tackle

been finer, -- loop of lead, two hooks; the lead

<~'\\'Jsm HUMPHRY nxvr.                                               257

           supplies the head, so that it is
           the drop minnow reversed. He
           caught two fish to my ten. Char

spawn here in October; how different from Leopold

steensee at Eisenarz! Fisherman uses ants' eggs on
the hooks of his flies, and he says with success.---

iQuere, are they taken for cadis?
   -i- it  a                               -X`                                                -fir
                                     it,
   " 6th. Aussee.--Thermometer                  in window 56° at
                                                                 91t
half past seven. Clouds hanging on the mountain.

Went to the (Edersee, beautiful small Alpine lake

surrounded by pine woods and high mountains. In

the lake, and the river which empties caught with

a  fly twenty-one trout, and three chubs; the trout

brook trout, herring size or larger. How did the
chub get into this high lake, where trout and sab

ling are the natural inhabitants
   " The lake trout, even when half
           ;                                           pound, were
                                               ?

                                                    a
red, like salmon the river trout, white; yet the skin

of the river trout was much brighter; taste equally
good. ` The river trout must exert themselves more;

does this exhaust their fat
   -1t
                                9*

                                        P
   -1! 4! O -t

   " 10th.--This evening admired the fine mountain

scenery, which for the first time was distinct; the
few clouds were below the summits of the mountains,

white in the sun, and almost as white as the snows

above them. The new-fallen snow nearly melted;
   i?
                                fl?
                                               ;.

                                                   s
                                                                 is

                                                                                                                          1

                                                                                                                       ;.;
but large masses remain on all the tops of the moun

tains, and in the gullies.

                                    * *' * *

   " `11th. -- Weather improved apparently at eight,

but white clouds on the breasts of the mountains

gleams of sunshine thermometer at 60° in window.
   voL. II.

258 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I. " This has been the finest day have seen here,

but the evening is becoming showery. All day it

was fine, proving the truth of the evening rainbow,

Iwhich was beautiful yesterday at eight P. M.
   " went to the Grundalsee, and made a piscatory

voyage to the farthest lake, where the river enters
from the other lake. Killed there nine fine trout,

two about 2lbs. English or more, and in fine season.

In the lower part of the lake took another, and three

chub. Was rowed by the fisherman and his wife.`

Took a char from his stew, which was excellent,--

nearly a pound. The scenery was very beautiful,

and the lake so calm that the mountains were seen

with their clothing in the lake, so that a reflected

picture of them was below.

I' 5* fr 9* ¥ -It

" 12th.--Went to Alt Aussee, a beautiful Alpine

lake; but could see no trout worth taking, as the

fishery belongs to the peasants.               -It        if:

 `                                60°. One          leech
      -7* ilt ilt ilk

   " 13th.--Thermometer in room

to temple (four yesterday). Went to (Edersee;
Ibut the water was coloured from the rain of last

night, and caught nothing but chub. A disagree

able day; rain, with alternations ofhot close sunshine.
Returned at three of the clock, valde miserabilis!
Iafter trying the river a very little.
                                        have not been
Iso miserable since was first attacked ;` whether it

is the exhaustion of five leeches and purging, or

whether there is some mischief brewing in the vessels
Iof the brain, know not ; but, whatever my fate may
Ibe, have nothing to reproach myself with, either in
Iphysical or moral discipline; and if disappear like
Ipoor Raflies, voluntas est Dei op. om.
\                                        have been

                 sra HUMPHRY DAVY.              Q59

l`ess.ir`ritable, and have had nothing to annoy me,

good inn, honest and civil people, fine scenery,

Iand now not bad weather, and yet feel ill and op
Ipressed; yet have excited the nape of the neck,

which discharges, and have now put a small blister

on the left thigh.                           it 6! *
                                             from Aussee beautiful,
    it is -*

   " 14th. Ischl.--The road

but temperature much increased; a day of bright and
continual sunshine. Thermometer in the room here

from 73° to 741°,   The Traun                of a beautiful green,
rather paler than  the Rhine.
but clear.                                   It is now very large,

           >K<

                           *
                                          a
   =I¢ # #
                                             #

   " 15th.--Left Ischl. A thunder storm at five in

the morning had fallen, and sent the roads into the
Traun, which was quite foul between Ischl and

Abersee. Took boat at Abersee, one post from Ischl,
and came in two hours and half to Gmiinden. The

views in the upper part of the lake very beautiful and
wild, and the journey from Ischl abounding in pic
turesque views. The Traun falls out of the lake at
Gmiinden, green, and now very large, but beautifully

clear.  I  fished below the town, and between six and

half past seven    caught eight or ten trout, and
           aa
grayling nearly in equal number. One trout was
              I
anearly three pounds, beautiful fish,--black and red
spots, and yellow belly. Two grayling were betweena
                                   s
  pound and half and two pounds, and had the yel2
low belly so marked in Continental grayling. Tem

perature here 68° now in my room, at nine o'clock.

It has been cloudy day, with some threatening of

rain, with some fulmen bruturn.

   " 16th.-Bright sunshine. Thermometer in my
             `

                    MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

room 69°. Went to the fall of the Traun, which was

Ivery magnificent; rain came on in my return ; the

water was at least ten times as much as when was
there nine years ago, and the fall in consequence more
magnificent, beautifully clear and green ; the white

foam and the green tint like those of the fall of the
Rhine at Schaffhausen. Fished, but caught only one
grayling. The water far too high, and the fish cannot
see the fly from the bottom. From the bridge it is

Ian immense rapid for at least a quarter of a mile. The

pools where caught my grayling nine years ago
were parts of the great rapid."

    The following little poem, descriptive of the Traun
in its power, was written about this time :

    " ON THE FALL OFqTHE TRAUN.

 t                                              " July 25. 1827.
_
`" From the high rock thy lovely waters burst,
` Asif a new creation from the wand
    Of Israelfs mighty prophet, sprung to life
` To save his people! But the dreamy thought
' 1 Of that most blessed, tho' but scanty rill,
    Gives but faint image of thy might, and power,

    And awful force, and fulness: as if a spirit

    Imprison'd by magic art and now released,

    Thou thunderest on, determined to destroy;
    And thy mild functions to produce and cheer
. Are changed for attributes more terrible,

    Saddening, destructive, wildly carrying on
    Rocks, trees, before thee, e'en the mighty pine,
    Rending the mountain, through a new-torn vale,

    Opening thyself a passage to the plain.
    But in thy wayward and most perilous leaps
    Thou still art pure, and still might image well
    The innate mind of poet or of sage.

    IIn thy rbright azure depths, and when thy foam

    Sinks into quietness, seem to view
    That season of our life when pleasure fades,
    And sober reason with its heavenly light

    Fills the deep cool of th' unimpassion'd mind,

    Escaped from turbulent and fretful youth,

                  srn HUMPHRY DAVY. .                      261

      Its troubles, passions, bubbles, noise, and foam,

      IWhich are well imaged in the falling stream.

      E'en as look upon thy mighty flood,

      IAbsorb'd in thought, it seems that become

      A part of thee, and in thy thundering waves
      My thoughts are lost, and pass to future time,

      Seeking the infinite, and rolling on

      Towards the sea eternal and unbounded

      Of the all-powerful, omnipresent mind !"

Ii= II                                         `I II i=

" Jzme18.--Rain all night. Thermometer 65°

in room and in window. Went to the Traun, and

fished below the bridge and at the mill. Had very

good sport; a day with occasional clouds and rain,

Iand gleams of warm sunshine. Hooked above the

mill a very large trout, think above four pounds, who

got under a bank, and broke my fine gut, after some

good play. Caught seven lache forelle, or lake trout,

and they call them here see forelle, with green backs,

black spots only, and belly of a beautiful silvery'

whiteness.

    " Pectoral fin                  -`         - `13.
                                       -       - 12.
      Dorsal           -
                                      -        - 12.
      Anal          -                             - . 9.
                                            -
      Ventral             -             -       20 or 22.

      Caudal           -

" The largest of these fishes about three quarters of

a pound. Caught two common trout very silvery,

but with red spots; and two large grayling, one nearly

Itwopounds.       few     finer     fishing    incidents  than the
       have seen
   "
one of this day. The large trout, who was lying oil'

the edge of the foam of the fall, rose at the fly, and
Iwas slightly hooked only.
                                               changed the fly, and

                                 s3                        .

262 mnnoms or THE LIFE or

put on a larger one, and he took immediately, and

dashed away into the rapid water, when he sprung

Ihigh in the air. He then went to the bottom, and

unwisely suffered him to run, supposing he would go
down the fall; instead of which he ran to the bank,

and there felt his strength, and broke a slender

stretching line. Went at ten, returned at three.

  i i* O O Q

" 2Qd. Voglabriich._A great thunder storm in the

night, and the rain continues. Thermometer 88°.
" Went to the source of the Agger, that
it                                                                                       where

  I is

                       Qa
                                       *

                                                  a

                               IIa
                                                                                   a is,
                                                                                        a
poured out by the Kammersee,    fine sapphire

(pale blue) stream, full of grayling. Whilst thun

der storm was brewing and falling caught vast

many grayling; beautifhl fish, with yellow bellies and

sides, some pound and half.     caught so many

that cannot count them.  #            I` t

        #

" 24¢h.--A fresh, beautiful morning, came on to

Kammer, and fished till half past two from eleven.
Had excellent sport; caught number of great gray
it

     is
                                is
                                              a

                                                                it

                                                                                is
ling, from one to two pounds. Caught one trout
likewise. The Agger beautifully clear and blue,

and impossible to have finer fly-fishing; but

almost satiating from its perfection, and from there

being no difliculty of any kind, except what arises

from my state of health.                            beautiful
   " Q5th.--At six in my window 55°:
                         I

                                          a
                                                 a
day. At three, thermometer in room 64°. Returned

aafrom loitering day, in which caught some grayling
and large bleak, almost as large as herring; but

fished without much energy, and chiefly experiment

ally, with salmon and large lake flies, with which                                         I

caught grayling. The Agger,  I  think, somewhat

smaller, but now four times as large as the Avon, and

          sm HUMPHRY navy.                    268

Iamongst the clearest streams ever saw; as clear as

the Lathkill or Traun`.
   " Went out again at six: a beautiful evening for

fishing; calm ; had excellent sport: caught ten or

Itwelve great graylings, from two pounds to one pound,

which saw rise at the fly.
   " 26th.-- Found a fire-fly in my room last night.

Thermometer at half past seven in room 60°, in win
dow 59°. Left Kammer for Mondsee, a journey

commanding beautiful views of the Kammer see, for

four or five miles along its banks ; and after an inland

journey of seven or eight miles, the road opens on

Mondsee, which is likewise a beautiful lake.
M" 27th.
          ondsee.--Thermometer in window at
Inine, 58° ; cloudy, and a fresh-feeling day. It turned
out a rainy morning.     went, however, to the river,

Iand caught, principally with the May-fly, a number

of small trouts, should think forty, and four large

gra"ylAingb.eautiful evening ; the mountains illuminated

above the lake by an unseen sun, and the western sky
in a blaze of vermilion; light so bright succeeded

by almost absolute darkness. My evening walk was
to the hill above the town, from which the views are

i .very beautiful."   U               Q#
       #

   From Salzburgh, where he went on the 30th, and

Iremained part of the following day, he wrote a letter

to Mr. Gilbert, part of which shall insert, as it is
descriptive ofhis state of health at that time ; of the

tempered manner in which he indulged the hope of

recovery; his feelings towards the Royal Society
and the cause of science; and of his motives for re
tiring from the office of President.

# ll #                        `I!     `= #

                         s4~

`Z64 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I" am sorry to say that the expectations of my

Iphysicians of a complete and rapid recovery have not
been realized.  have gained strength, under the

most favourable circumstances, very slowly; and

Ithough have had no new attack, and have regained

to a certain extent the use of my limbs, yet the tend

ency of the system to accumulate blood in the head

still continues, and I am obliged to counteract it by

a most rigid vegetable diet, and by frequent bleedings

Iwith leeches and blisterings, which of course keep

me very low. From my youth up to last year, had

suffered more or less from a slight hemorrhoidal affec

tion ; and the fulness of the vessels, there only a slight

inconvenience, becomes a serious and dangerous evil

in the head, to which it seems to have been trans
Iferred.
          am far from despairing of an ultimate re

covery ; but it must be a work of time, and the vessels

which have been over distended only very slowly

regain their former dimensions and tone; and for my

recovery, not only diet, and regimen, and physical

discipline, but a freedom from anxiety, and from all

business and all intellectual exertion, is absolutely re

quired.
I" Under these circumstances,
                               feel.it would be

highly imprudent, and perhaps fatal for me to re

Iturn, and to attempt to perform the oflicial duties of

President of the Royal Society; and as had no

Iother feeling for that high and honourable situation

except the hope of being useful to society, so would
not keep it a moment without the security of being

Iable to devote myself to the labour and attention it
demands.        beg, therefore, you will be so good as

to communicate my resignation to the Council and to

the Society, at their first meeting in November after

the long vacation, stating the circumstances of my

               sm HUMPHRY navy.                     Q65

severe and long continued illness as the cause. At

Ithe same time, beg you will express to them how
Itruly grateful feel for the high honour they have
Idone me, in placing me in the chair for so many suc

cessive years. Assure them that shall always take
the same interest in the progress of the grand objects
of the Society, and throughout the whole of my life
endeavour to contribute to their advancement, and

to the prosperity of the' body.
   " Should circumstances prevent me from sending,

or you from receiving, any other communication from

me before the autumn (for nothing is more uncer
I Itain than the post in Austria, as they take time to
read the letters),  hope this, which shall go to

Bavaria to send,` will reach you safe, and will be Suf
ficient to settle the affair of resignation. -
I" It was my intention to have said nothing on the
.subject of my successor.     will support, by all the

means in my power, the person that the leading mem

Ibers of the Society shall place in the chair; but
cannot resist an expression of satisfaction in the hope

you held out, that an illustrious friend of the Society,

I---illustrious from his talents, his former situation,

and, may say, his late conduct, ---is likely to be my
                           `
successor.
I" I wish my name to be in the next council, as
shall certainly return, Deo volente, before the end of

I Ithe session, and may, think, be of use; and
Ilikewise because hope it may be clearly understood

that my feelings for the Society are as they always

were, -- those of warm attachment and respect."

=I=         #       ll= =" #                    =!

*# # # =K<                                      i=

" July 4:. --- Rain and lightning all night, and still

266               rnnnoms or THE LIFE or

continues at eight. Thermometer fallen to 62° in
window. Left Transtein on the Munich road; the

Chiemsee and small lakes form beautiful pictures in

the landscape: the Chiemsee bounded by high

mountains, and surrounded by woods. Rained till
one o'clock, and then were fine views of the moun

tains, with clouded intervals. Reached Aibling at

four o'clock.

   " 7th.--Cool in the morning at eight. Thermo
meter 62° in window. Shall leave Munich for Staren

berg on the lake. The journey to Starenberg not

interesting, through large woods. Lake too low, and

mountains too desolate.
     *# # # `ll
                                          #

   " 8th.--Went to a small lake, Kochlsee, about

I Isix miles off The scenery think finer than any

have yet seen in Bavaria, except, perhaps, the Chiem

see. In returning caught some small trouts in a

brook we crossed. The fisherman says there are

huchos both in the lake and the large river which

feeds it.

   " 9th.--Came on to Feussen ; the road picturesque,

especially the last eight or ten miles. Went to the

fall of the Lech, a large river, tinted from melting

snow. The fall not high, but the scenery surround
ing it fine. Thermometer at six in window 65 °.
     t* i=
                         =l|=     i=  *4

    " 11th. --Constant sunshine without a cloud.

Came on to Bregenz. The views in descending to
the town fine, and the mountains of the Tyrol and

Appenzal very grand seen over the lake. Hot in

the sun, in shade 76°; and the thermometer, even

in  the.  night,  above  70°.

                  #            Q  as  as .|.o`

                    sra HUMPHRY nnvr.                      267

" 12th.--Shall set out for Constance. Promise of

a cloudy day. Thermometer 70° at seven. Passed
the Rhine, a large turbid stream ; rich country,
abundance of vineyards, but nothing picturesque
along the bank of the lake. Constance little worth

seeing. The Rhine a grand river where it joins the

two lakes. Went in a boat and fished, but saw

nothing.                                    -

O # 1' Q O                                              *

" 1¢tth.--In the morning came on to Schaffhausen;

bright sunshine, but not very hot. Thermometer in
small room here 69° at half past two. Went in the

Ievening to the fall of the Rhine, which was very

grand,--fuller of water than when was here twelve
years ago. The rainbow beautiful. Fished in vain; but

saw some men fishing, who took hase, carp, and chub.

IDid not see a fish of any size or interest rise, nor in

the Rhine above the town. The fall, think, may
compare with that of the Gotha for size and effect; it

Iis twice or thrice as large as that of the Traun, and

think about half the size of that of the Glommen. It

 is inferior to  this last fall in  height  as well as  in great

.
Iness, but its accompaniments and the colour of the
water are much finer.               went down by the left

 bank, but the view is finer from the opposite side.

   I" The eels in the Lake of Constance must climb

 the fall, which have no doubt they do, by wet moss

and grass on the sides of the rocks. A subterranean

Ifizll, like that of the Rhone, they cannot climb. At

 Ballyshannon have seen them in their progress;

millions die, but millions likewise ascend.

=1?              #  #11             #       #¥

. " 15th.--Arrived at Zurich at one. The Limmat

is beautifully clear, like the Agger in tint and size.

268 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Nothing worth seeing in the road from Schaffhausen

here."

        1= #   =lK  =*`             =l=  lK

" 17th. Wesen, Wallenstadt Lake; -- A beautiful
travelling day. The bottom of the lake very fine.

IThe scenery in a dark but red sunset very sublime.
This lake far the most magnificent       have seen in

this journey.

        is     Q#   =lf~            `IF  =l=

" 18th. .Wesen.--A rainy night and morning.

Thermometer at 64r° in room. Notwithstanding the

rain, the views up the lake fine; the clouds passing

Iover the dark rock and pine. This lake has more

the character of a Styrian lake than any have seen

in Switzerland, and islike the Traunsee; but the

river is not like the Traun: it is.a whitish stream,

Iand have seen no fish in it.
        *`E                              a
               =I'  =X=             ll!         :l=

   " Went to Glarus. `The scenery upon grand

scale, with rocks extremely high, capped with snow.
Like the scenery of Eisenharz in Styria, but think
                                         I

upon  If    grander scale. Another beautiful sunset,

with dark clouds hanging on the mountains, and thea

tops, clouds, and snow tinted with red or yellow

light.         I1`

               =l=  #                    U

" 19th. Ragas, on the Rhine. -- The road to Ragas

very good and picturesque. The mountains peaked,

and spotted with snow. The views here of the same

character, very Styrian like; and the Rhine resem

bling the Einnrs.
   " 20th.--A bright morning; at five thermometer

in room 60°. The peaks of the near mountains

in bright sunshine. Passed the Rhine, and came on

      sm HUMPHRY nxv Y.                              Q69

to Felknis and to Bludenz. The scenery very beauti
ful; high mountains in some places display patches
of snow; clear waters; and the Inn, a wild foaming

torrent, clear but white: the peculiar, high-wooded
mountains of the Tyrol in perfection."

      *# 1* `Kl            `* .                  1`

   "  Q1 st. Landeelr, in  the junction of the Rosana

and   the Inn. -- Arrived  here from Bludenz at a little

I Iafter five. The day was cloudy, and the latter part
wet.  have never, think, seen a finer road, or.

more romantic scenery. The sources of the Inn,

beautifhlly clear, are visible all the first part of the

road, and you soon ascend from the first post station

Ito the snows, &c., which send down clear blue
streams to the Inn.        never saw a finer effect than

that produced by the wind and clouds, when we had

passed the summit. It was like a` rapid shifting

of the most brilliant scenes; snowy capped sum

mits shone forth in sunshine, and then were hid by a

white cloud. Bright woods and the gushing cataract

all came, as it were, living and moving upon the

eye; the clouds sometimes seemed to fall like stones,

and then to rise like balloons. These extraordinary
phenomena ended in a thunder storm and rain; but
even in the rain the scenery was very fine. The

stream from the mountains nearly loses its clearness

by foul companions, before it joins the Inn, which is

like  washerwoman's lees. Thermometer     here   62%"
   "                                      after  dinner
      A fine sunset after the rain. Went

along the magnificent road which goes to Balsano.

The views very striking: high mountains, with the

tops covered with new-fallen snow; the road above
the Inn. The postmaster says there are grayling in

Q70 mamoms or THE LIFE or

the Inn, and trout in the Rosana. These roads do

great credit to the Austrian administration.
   " 22d. --Arrived at Nassereit a little after twelve.

The road of the same imposing and sublime character.

Mountains on each side capped with snowand breasted

with clouds. Tempted by the appearance of a clear

stream to stop here. Went at five o'clock to a small

Ilake, the lowest cf the three, which remarked for

the peculiar colour of the water twelve years and a

Ihalf ago; it was of a bright grass green, though

think less green than at that time, as the pine wood is

decayed and worked out. Saw no fish rise but just

at the rapid, where the small river enters ; saw a fish

follow my fly from the rapid into the still water, where

he took it. It was a char in good season of half a

pound. Caught another fish, a small trout, in the

little lake above, which was clear, but slightly milky;

Ibut fished in vain in the same place. This is the

first char have ever taken in angling. Thermo

meter in room 66° at nine, in window 63.
                           *
##  =X<  #=                               i=

" Q3d. --Arrived at Inspruck at three o'clock.

The scenery in this part of the road not so fine

as yesterday's. The valley of the Inn broader, and

bounded by high mountains spotted with snow; a.

fine calm and bold outline; the valley very green;
the Inn white and turbid. The rain is over; it is a

close dark evening, rather oppressive to the feelings.
The walks here fine, with the views of the snow

spotted mountains immediately above the town.

Thermometer 63° in the room; at 60° in the win

dow at nine.

  " 26th. Steinach, two posts from Inspruck. -- Ar

              sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                                                                  271

rived at twelve. Dined on ptarmagin, which was ex

cellent. Slept here: the scenery very fine ; deep

valleys, with a foaming torrent, white from snow, and

high mountains covered with snow in the distance;

one entirely covered.
                     I! * =I=

   " 31st. Sillian. -- The course of the Drave
I                                                                                         it                                    =l=
             =X=
                                                                                                             is                   so
            I
                               is
                                                                      =l=
changed by the winter floods, that                                                                 appears .an

other river, and the fish seem to be all washed away.
  have fished in all the places that seemed good, and

have   caught nothing.                                                     Puster  Thal,  which    finishes                          at

   "  This place in

Lienz and begins at Brixen and certainly one of
                                                                           ;
the grandest valleys in Europe.                                                       a ; is

   `# * * D 1=                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                             `
   " August 1. Greifiznburg. -- The scenery between
Lienz and this place very beautiful high mountains,
apparently limestone, rising above the Drave; and

extremely lofty spruce firs on the left bank the view
from Greifenburg very beautiful; pyramid of rock

opposite, with snow in its crevices. Thermometer in

closed  room  here 72°                                                      in window     80°.
              think, the                                                   hottest day       have
  " It    is,I                                                                                     felt;                        but
                                        ;                                          l!

                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                    =I=

                                                                                                       I
have confined myself to the room, with windows and

jealousies closed.  *                                                                                                 *

'X= 1=                                                                             Arrived at twelve. A

" 8d.-- Came to Wurzen.

beautiful day, and the views from Vallach along this
high mountain-road very glorious. The clouds of

the whitest tints, lighted up by the orient sun, filled
the valleys of the Gurlen and Drave, and the moun
tains rose above them into the bright blue sky. The

road through forests of beech trees and spruce firs,is

and the mountains on the Italian side occasionally

Q72 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

appear crested with snow in ascending: but itis in

descending that these mountains open upon the view

in their greatness. They present the noblest fbrrns
calcareous rocks can assume, and a great variety of

colours; and they rise above beautiful green valleys

(and high-wooded mountains), breasted with snow,
Iand presenting their inaccessible summits to half the
sokfy.th`e  know no scene more sublime than this crest

            Carnean or Noric Alps; and there are no

streams more beautiful than the two that originate
from it,-- the Sava and the Isonzo. Temperature

about 70° in mid-day, but not oppressive to the feel

ings.        i* # II= Q

       #    Villach. -- Returned after a ride to a lake

   " 5th.

about two hours off. The road to the lakes below

Ithe Manhart (there are two) is very dangerous, but

very picturesque; and have seldom seen a scene
of more savage and peculiar wildness. The lake is a

clear blue shallow water, a sapphire set in silver, for

the mountains are white ; and the lake is called Weis

sanfels. Saw some trout in the lake, and minnows;

Ithe trout would not take the fly. In returning, the

dog found some quails, and shot three. Thermo

meter at two 70°. Went to the marsh, but found no

ducks.

   " There was a beautiful rainbow at seven, and yet,
August 6., it rained and thundered all night, and is

still raining. At seven the thermometer 62°. Came

on to Crainburgh it rained all day, with more thun
der and lightning. Here, in window, thermometer

is 66°; and there is another evening rainbow. Does

the proverb only apply to England?
   " The scenery in the upper part of the valley of the

                 sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                     278

Kraimer Save is very beautiful : dark rock, with

large masses of snow in all the hollows, and fine

wooded hills below.
   " Since the rainbow appeared, it has lightened and

thundered, and rained, almost without intermission.

The thermometer now, at eight o'clock, is below 60°

in the west window."

    On the 7th of August he arrived at Laybach, and

on the 18th he decided on leaving in consequence
                               a
                                          it,
of two or three attacks of bilious kind which he

experienced. He thus notices the most severe, which

occurred on the 13th :--

  " A bilious attack came on last night, and has left

me extremely weak, with pulse at 110, which
                           a                          I

                            II

                                          if
have not had for many months.     feel extremely ill,
and doubt if shall recover.
              I                   feel as my heart

was affected. Is not this bilious attack generis

Rafllesii?"
    On the 15th he writes, --
                                               `

    " The night and the day are alike cloudless   a;  and

ifin health and spirits, should enjoy these glorious
                      aaI
mountains but have furred tongue, and pulse
        I
              ;

               ;I
at 96.        have applied blister to the nape of my

neck, and leeches to the temple.               know not what
                               I
                                   I
my fate will be but yesterday was particularly ab

stemious, and to-day shall scarcely eat anything
                      I

except broth."

   On the 18th he thus writes from Assling --
   " Resolved to leave Laybach pulse 85 or 86, and
extremely weak; slept ill, -- and at seven set out for
Assling. Have never felt so ill since began my jour
                               ;                  :

                                  I                    iIf I

ney." He adds,--" must change the system; for
                   I

feel cannot hear this exhausting plan, and
    I

    voL. II.               T

274~  MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE 0F

Icontinue it shall die of debility." He continues : --
I" At five pulse rather mended,-- 80; and the jour
ney seems to have done me so far good.  admired,

though we had thunder and a violent storm, the

magnificence of the valley of the Save, which was this

Iday in great beauty."
      shall insert a few more extracts from his journal

of his homeward journey, which, like the preceding,

may help to show in part how he passed his time, the

fluctuating state of his health, and his unceasing
enjoyment of the beauties of nature. In the expres

Ision of the latter there may be some repetition; yet

were to judge from the pleasure his brief notices of

Iscenery have afforded me in reading them and select

ing them, would hope they may afford pleasure to

Iothers, although more happily situated than in the

antipodes of such scenes,-as in Malta, where now
write, in the hottest season of the year; the sky un

clouded, the earth parched, and where even the

recollection of cool and gushing streams, and snow

capped peaks and green valleys, gives a kind of re

freshment and enjoyment.

  " 19th. --Arrived at Wurzen. A bright sunny

day and very warm. Thermometer at twelve in

room 66°; out of doors 76°, and moist one 66°:

`appearances of tongue andjpulse improve; pulse only

7% "toTh7e8. Save, notwithstanding the storm of yester
night, was beautifully clear, and the colour of Scotch

topaz, that bluer than sea-green. The mountains
      if
           is,
                    a
are in great beauty: on the highest peak, which was

almost covered with snow, black narrow clouds were

rising, as from volcano, and in the sunshine be

      srn HUMPHRY navy.                      275

Icoming first white and then melting away.   think

Ithis valley, from Laybach to Wurzen, the most beau

tiful have seen in Europe.

Q I=  'I=      =I=       =*                  =lF

  I" 2lst. Wurzcn. -- It was a delightful breezy

morning, with clouds; went out on horseback, and

beat some fields, and enjoyed the mountain view, and

felt grateful to the O. E. I. `for the improvement in

my health. Rode till one, and shot tolerably; three

rails, and two quails The mountains were in great

beauty. My pulse after my ride and exercise this

Imorning only 72, and my tongue cleaner than have

seen it for a long time. Took a ride at six to the
opening of the glen below where another stream

joins the Sava; a glorious valley. Fished before
without any success in the lake and river; there was

no fly on, and a distant thunder storm kept down the
fish. Pulse at nine this evening 62.--G. D. O.

    **35` *' ¥ '3'

  I" 27th.--Went after dinner in the boat round the

top of the lake, but did not find a single duck
Admired the Sorgente Sava ; a number of deep cir

cular holes with air bubbling through them, and

large jets of water, which is beautifully clear. It

seems to rise through mud; but there is no appear
ance of sand, and no turbidness. No plants grow in

this place ; and there are no fish near it.

% -# -1- ii? it                              it

   " 30th.--Examined this evening the air disengaged

in such large quantities where the Sava rises. It ap

peared to me to possess all the characters of common
air; was not absorbable by water, and supported

flame in the same manner as common air.

   " 3lst.--A wet morning. Resolved to pursue my

           T2

276 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

journey to Baden, as my spirits cannot hear this con

stant solitude, where there is no amusement and no

books. Pulse not worse; 70°.                                                                -

    " Sept. 2. Grie..flenMrg.--These three thoughts
occurred to me last night : --
   " 1. The river, like human life, has its origin from
iujinity (that of air), and is lost in immensity (that of

oce"an2).. May not all the phenomena of life be the re

sults of a single organisation ? that                                          may not the
    a
                       a

                               a

                    Ia
                                                          a
                                                               a is,

                                                                              ?
organisation of the two first beings have produced all

the phenomena, moral and physical, belonging to
their infinity of descendants all dependent upon one

law, without any interference afterwards

   " 3. The Dutch burgomaster, whose ideas were so
limited that in time of famine he proposed to pre
vent future one, by converting part of the park

at  Amsterdam  into potato  garden.
               to Lienz.
    " Came on               The clouds                                         disappeared

about one o'clock, and never saw more beautiful

evening; the zodiacal light was quite brilliant, and`

the mountains all uncovered. The scenery about this
place rivals that of Wurzen.

   " Went out in the carriage, and had excellent sport;

shot well all day; missed only the first shot, which

was too far off; and afterwards shot three rails, eight

quails, and one snipe.  took my exercise well, with
    a

                   I

                                                a
                                                                     a
less fatigue, and certainly feel better. Offered up my

thanksgivings to the O. O. 0., with tears of gratitude
and feelings of intense adoration.

    3!= 1= ll= 'l= I! `F

    " Sept. 4.--A beautiful evening, with full moon,

and the mountains lighted by gorgeous setting sun.
Took long walk, and my pulse on my return was

                      sm HUMPHRY DAVY.         277

not more than 71 or 72. Saw this morning, in my
walk, boys fishing in the Ischl ; one had a grasshop

per on the bottom hook, with lead above,

and two artificial flies two feet and three

feet above the lead, on coarse hair link.

He had taken a small grayling. Thermo

meter at half past seven in window 50°.

Thermometer twenty minutes before nine

in window 50 . A bright and beautiful

night. The Ischl is rolling a flood of light

under the full moon, and the snows are dis- I

tinct on the mountains in the moonbeams.

'                 if  i= 'l= =i= # `
             `IF
I" 9th.---At Brenner, where
                                        came this even

Iing, the thermometer in the room was only 53°, and
in the window 4¢t°.   was only two hours in the

morning in coming from Sterzing to Brenner. The

I Iscenery struck me as very fine, and more than when
  saw it last in going down; more, think, than in
any of my former journeys, and this is my fourth time
of passing it. The views on the snowy mountains on

the right hand going up are very grand, and the dis

tances well preserved; that             succession of moun
                      is
tains, which appear very distinctly one behind theT
                             3
other, with rocks, with pine woods, and in the back
                                 is,
of all the snowy peaks.              a

    *Q # # * =lK

    " 11th.--Arrived at Nassereit at four o'clock.
The scenery appeared to be grander in coming up

than going down. At five o'clock the thermometer
outside of the window 72°, and the moist one only

55°. ` The autumnal migration of birds seems more

dependent upon the want of food than upon temper

278 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

ature. The quails remain till all the food is taken off

Ithe ground. But in Italy, as many as can feed in the

stubbles stay all the year; and in Ireland, doubt if

they ever migrate to the Continent. The landrail,

which feeds on worms and flies, certainly does. A

curious subject is the connection of the habits of birds
with the growth of particular plants. The quail seems

to fix his abode where he finds small seeds ; the rail

in moist meadows, where snails, grasshoppers, and

other flies and worms abound, and he eats with them

the seeds of grasses.
    * *`II
                           '|f= -*-                                  %

    " 13th.--Left Nassereit for Reitte, a magnificent

road, with the little lakes sparkling like emeralds in
their pine-covered basins; but the waters in all of

them appear this day equally green, and many fish

were sporting in them. Bought a female gelinotte
and a ptarmagan : the foot of the gelinotte is curious,

from the scales and protuberances which occupy the
place of feathers, and which must be almost as bad

conductors of heat; at the same time, they are better

fitted for a bird that lives principally in thick woods,

and perches on small branches, as they give prehensile

power to the feet.
    a >l=
        "I: 51- it 'l= ilk

    " 14th.--The scenery round Reitte fine, and the

pass through the mountains to iissen grand Alpine

valley. The woods are now in great beauty; their
autumnal tints developing; and the Lech of a
clouded blue, and much clearer than in July. From
                           F

                                         a
                                                     is

Fiissen to Kempten little worth seeing. We pass the

Weissensee, lake in which  said the mirror carp
                       is

                                 it

                                       is
                                                                 is
is  found. This lake not large, and there nothing

    srn HUMPHRY navy.                            279

interesting in the views to a tourist coming from the
valleys of the Drave, Save, Inn, and Salza.
*#
     at as is                                 #

" 15th. -- Came to `Ulm. The only thing worth

notice on the road was the quantity of hops round

IMenningen, which appeared to me higher than any
have seen: some of the poles, with hops rising to

their summits, twenty feet high. The Danube is

I Iclear; and saw some fish, suppose coarse ones,
Irise in it. The environs of Ulm think rather

pretty, with gardens rising above the walls.

###        =l=         1''                       #

I18th. Plochingen. -- A bright morning.       intend
Ito go back to my grayling fishing, which might
Ihave enjoyed in coming down, had trusted my

eyes, and;not what was said. Fished at Guitenger,

in the water above the town. The scenery is very

pretty; rock and woods, and a wild narrow glen, with

a small trout stream about the size of the Chenis

water. There are few grayling; none above the

town in this water, the Rosach; they are principally
Ifound in the Vils, a mile lower down.
                                              caught in
Ian evening's fishing, between four and six o'clock,

dare say ftom forty to sixty fish ; none of them above

three quarters from that to a quarter of a pound;

I Imany ten inches or eleven inches long: all trout.
    " do not know when have felt more my para

Ilytic symptoms, whether owing to more exercise, or

to some other cause ; but feel as if a ligature was

Ibound along the course of the arm and thigh. Per

haps have walked more continuously than in shoot

ing.

   " 19th.--A fresh morning; some light clouds.
It is my intention this morning to try for grayling

     T 41

280 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

in the Vils. `Left Guitenger, and stopped with the

carriage at Allenstadt, where the Vils joins the R0

sach, a stream like the Teme in summer, and con

taining close to the town plenty of grayling and
Itrout. took the fisherman with me, and soon filled
Iajlsh barrel, and threw in numbers.
                                                                                      dare say, that
Iin three pools, in less than an hour, caught fifty

fish, nearly an equal number of grayling and trout,
but none much more than half a pound, like the last

year's grayling of the Teme. They rose at a dark

Ifly, and .took them all with one fly.
  I" It became cloudy whilst was fishing, though it

Iwas bright till ten minutes before left ofl`, and it

gradually became darker after twelve o'clock, and at

three ended in a thunderstorm, and the rain accom

Ipanied me to Stutgard at half past four. The Necker

was muddy; ere passed by, its clear tint became

red. Vine cultivation, and Indian corn, and rather

pretty hills along the road; but the finest part is

about Geislenger. There the trout and the grayling

stream, and the wild rocks, give an interest to the

scene, even to one who is not an angler.
=)I=
               is # is                                                                -It as
         a

         I
" 2lst.--A bright fine morning at Carlsruhe.

Passed disagreeable night, with symptoms of indi

gestio,n so violent that feared at first they were
                                                             I
apoplectic.                       regret the quiet and beauty of the
Tyrol and the Illyrian provinces; and if had me                                   it
                                                                                      it I
dical advice, would return to them immediately.
                                                                                                                   -7l'
These inns and people seem made to form invalids.
had two peasants swearing, and smoking, and snor
I

                              ir
ing, in the next room to mine, who scarcely allowed

me' to sleep,                   and woke me                    before                 daylight."

                                                          -It

                     sra HUMPHRY DAVY.             281

   " 22d. Baden.--A fine day; but whether loiter

Iing disagrees with me, or from what other cause,

am, valde miserabilis, worse as to sensations than

Isince have left Laybach. The scenery in the be

ginning of its autumnal tints is very beautiful, and
for a person well or becoming convalescent it

Iwould be a beautiful place, and an agreeable resi

dence: but fear my light of life is burnt out, and

that there remains nothing but stink, and smoke, and

dying snuff.

-IF       `          it   iii`                  -19 9*
               -ilt

" 25th. Spiers. --Decidedly worse; applied six

teen leeches and a blister to the nape of the neck.

Decidedly worse, and have decided to go home imme

Idiately ;--the old pain, and more severe in the region

of the heart; yet ate yesterday only the breast of a

partridge, with a little pike ; to-day have eaten only

a little chicken broth, and shall fast for two or three

days; pulse nearly 100.

          I

                   I

                                      is

                                I
                                                                                                            91t
                                         I
                                                                                                                                        -¥
iit ilt alt -*

`` 27th. St. Goar. -- A very beautiful and glorious

evening.      thought was going to be quite well,

as the weakness of the left wrist, which put an end

to my shooting at Spiers, quite gone; but found

my stiff leg as bad as ever. Yet can hardly be

lower, or live lower. --Dubito fortissime restaura

tionem meum.`

   " As have so often alluded to the possibility of
I
        I

                    aI

                                            it
my dying suddenly, think                        right to mention that

am too intense believer in the Supreme Intelli
gence, and have too strong a faith in the optimism of

the system of the universe, ever to accelerate my dis

solution. The laurel water, therefore, which have
                                                I

carried about with me, and used constantly, and

282  MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE 0F

Ifrom which have decidedly derived benefit, is a

prescription of Tomasini's; and the laudanum and

Iopium which are in my dressing-case, but which
have never used, were recommended to me in small

Idoses to remove irritation, taken with purgatives.
Ihave been, and am, taking a care of my health which

   fear it is not worth; but which, hoping it may

Iplease Providence to preserve me for wise purposes,
  think my dutg/.--G. O. O. O.

9? -1k 6* it                 95 FF

" Walked for an hour this evening in the moon

I Ilight; probably, with constant use, my leg and arm
will be restored.  think decidedly gain ground."
In this precarious state of health, and often

wretched state of feeling connected with
     a                                                    he pur
                                            ;
sued his journey to England, where he landed the
                                                   a it,
6th of October. That night he slept at Canterbury,

on his way from Dover to London, and the following

day he arrived at his house in Park Street.
   He remained in England till the last week of the

following March; and, in relation to health, was

neither better decidedly nor worse. He continued

in the same fluctuating state, occasionally indulging

in sanguine hope of recovery, and most willingly
trying new modes of treatment occasionally almost

in despair of amendment, yet still struggling on, and
making head manfully against his infirmities. Un

able to enter into London society, or follow actively

the pursuits of science, he proposed soon after his

return taking up his residence in the country, and

he probably would have done so, could he have found

at that time place to be sold or let which accorded

with his views as to climate, and scenery, and field
and river sports. Whilst in quest of such spot, he

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                283

paid two visits, the only ones he made during his

stay in England; one to a nobleman in Sussex, for

whom he had a great regard, at whose house he was

taken ill the preceding year; the other in Somerset

shire, to his old and respected and 1nuch-loved friend
Mr. Poole, with whom in November and December

he spent about six weeks, with as much pleasure as

he was capable of enjoying.                                `

His occupations and amusements, at all periods of

his life, were nearly identical, and so they were now.

We have seen with what zeal he followed shooting

and fishing on the Continent, whenever circumstances

admitted of his engaging in either, and how deeply
he was interested in several branches of natural his

tory. At this season, when the angler's rod was use

less, and he found himself hardly equal to the exertion

which shooting requires, he sought refuge from ennui

in composing his little work on angling, already more

than once referred to and quoted, which he called

" Salmonia," or " Days of Fly-fishing." It was written
                        of his favourite
somewhat  on the plan  Angler," or "        author, Isaac
Walton's                                  Contemplative
          " Complete
Man's Recreation;" being in the form of dialogue,

and discursive, relating principally (as the title,
signifies) to the chief objects of the angler's art, the
different species of the genus salmo. But it was not
confined to them; it included many particulars of

their history and habits, and of the most distinguished

fishing rivers in Europe; and branched out into va

rious other interesting topics naturally connected with

the main subject, as is indicated by the persons

of the dialogue. These are, as noticed in the pre

face, HALIEUS, who is supposed to be an accom

plished fly-fisher; ORNITHER`, who is to be regarded

28`1<  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE OF

as a gentleman generally fond of the sports of the
field, though not a finished master of the art of
angling; PoIETEs, who is to be considered as an

enthusiastic lover of nature, and partially acquainted
with the mysteries of fly-fishing; and PHYSICUS,

who is described uninitiated as an angler, but a

psoerpshoyn."foIntdisoaf didneqdu,iri"esThinesneaptuerraslonhagisetsorayreanodf  philo
                                                                                 course

imaginary, though the sentiments attributed to them

the author may sometimes have gained from recol
lections of real conversations with friends, from

whose society much of the happiness of his early life
has been derived ; and in the portrait of the charac
ter of HALIEUS, given in the last dialogue, a likeness,

he thinks, will not fail to be recognised to that of the

character of a most estimable physician, ardently

beloved by his friends, and esteemed and venerated

by the public."

   This excellent man was Dr. Babington,---alas! now

no more. In my brother's sketches of characters, he

is described with the same feeling and truth as

prompted the above notice.

. " Babington, the best and warmest hearted friend,

the kindest husband and father, and perhaps the

most disinterested physician of his time; with good

talents, and a fine tact, and a benevolence which

Icreated sympathy for him wherever he appeared, and
   believe often cured his patients."

` The extracts already given from his joumals.0
travels will aflbrd some idea of his fitness for the

undertaking, and of the amusement which he might

derive from the recalling of old scenes of enjoyment,
and the memory of pleasures passed away. From
his boyhood, we have seen, he had been a lover of

    sm HUMPHRY DAVY.`                      285

the angle, and he was hardly less fond of fowling,

for which sport also he had acquired a taste early in

life. At no time of his life did he relinquish angling,

except at the commencement of his public career,

whilst he was at Clifton, and the first year or two he
was in London, when all his faculties were strained in

the pursuits of science, under the impulse of a lofty

ambition, and an intense desire which he possessed
of distinguishing himself, extending the boundaries
of human knowledge, and benefiting mankind. When

                          I
                                  it iIt,
he resumed angling, he pursued            may say, pas
                                         used his gun,
sionately for some years, and never      was soon after
The time, however, arrived, think

his marriage, that he seemed to prefer his gun to his
rod; and probably the reason for this was that he

was much in the country in the autumn, and followed
fishing and shooting more than formerly for amuse

ment, and less as mere relaxation from his scien
    a

tific labours. Latterly,  it      diflicult to say which he

                              is

preferred; the preference, believe, was very much
                          I

decided by the kind of sport; the salmo hucho of the

branches of the Danube, in Southern Austria, and

the double snipe in the marshes of Rome and Ra

venna, Laybach and Altona, would be to him  al

most equally attractive. By connecting both sports
with natural history, he gave them degree of im
                                     a

portance and interest not their own, and made them,it

as were, rational. His note books show this very
remarkably; they contain not merely the minutes of
his day's sport, but also the results of his observations

for the purposes of distinguishing species and iden
tifying them, and of ascertaining their routes in mi
gration, their peculiar diets and habits, of which

an imperfect notion only can be obtained from the

286 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

 extracts brought forward. He was a better angler

Ithan he was a fowler; indeed, he was the most suc

 cessful angler ever knew. He threw the fly with
great delicacy and dexterity, and had a tact and
knowledge which made him very superior to the

Icommon angler, however much practised. Salmon

fishing he was very successful in; but, believe, he

was most successful in trout fishing, in which he had
most experience. His tackle was curious and ela
borate; he seems to have had a pleasure in collecting
the gay materials necessary for dressing flies, though
he seldom used them himself, excepting on emer

gency, having been always too much occupied to
have had leisure to applyhimself much to fly-making,
an art in which it is impossible to attain tolerable skill

I Iwithout much practice.
      am sorry have not a portrait of him in his best

days in his angler's attire. It was not unoriginal, and

considerably picturesque-- a white low-crowned hat
with a broad brim ; its under surface green, as a pro
tection from the sun, garnished, after a few hours'
fishing, with various flies of which trial had been

made, as was usually the case; a jacket either grey
or green, single-breasted, furnished with numerous
large and small pockets for holding his angling gear;
high boots, water-proof, for wading, or more com.
monly laced shoes; and breeches and gaiters,' with caps
to the knees made of old hat, for the purpose of de
fence in kneeling by the river side, when he wished
to approach near without being seen by the fish: such
was his attire, with rod in hand, and pannier on back,

if not followed by a servant, as he commonly was,

carrying the latter, and a landing net. In fishing, as

well as in everything else which he undertook, he

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  287

displayed extraordinary zeal and energy. It was not       `

unusual for him to go two or three hundred miles for

Ia day's fishing, and his perseverance was in the same

proportion. remember fishing with him from early
dawn to twilight in the river Awe in June, for salmon,

with little interruption, without raising a fish. Pas
sionately fond of the beauties of nature, which he felt

as a poet and saw as a philosopher, probably the hap

piest hours of his life were spent by the river or lake
side, or on the mountain moor. In the open air, in
the country, at any season of the year, but more espe
cially in spring and autumn, when in tolerable health,

he could always (and sometimes even when labouring
under disease), throw off his cares, and rid his mind

of all annoying thoughts. There he recovered the

hilarity natural to his disposition, and appeared in his

true character, most cheerful, amiable, and entertain

Iing, and the delight of his friends. They, indeed,

will now say, were almost his only true friends who
were his associates in these sports ; and they perhaps

were almost the only persons who knew him thoroughly
and truly. But it is time to quit this digression, and

return to the subject which led me into it,--" Sal
monia, or Days of Fly Fishing." Perhaps never was
a work more characteristic of the mind and pursuits
of its author; in fact, it is little more than the most

interesting parts of his journal dramatised, on the
foundation of his general experience in angling and
the sports of the field, and his researches in natural

history and science, diversified and enriched by

thoughts and reflections rising from nature to nature's

God,----from the beauties and admirable contrivances

Iof creation to the wisdom and goodness of the Creator.
   have turned to the book to give a few quotations in

288            MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

Iillustration, and a very few will suflice. The first

opened upon relates to the swallow, and is an example

of the poetry of the work.
   " Hal.--Whilst we have been conversing, the May

Iflies, which were in such quantities, have become

much fewer; and believe the reason they have

been greatly diminished by the flocks of swallows
                  aI
                                   is,
                                          aa
which everywhere pursue them. have seen single

swallow take four in less than quarter of minute

that were descending to the water.

"Poiet.--I delight in this living landscape! The

swallow  is  one of my favourite birds, and rival of
                  is
            ;                       a

                                                is
the nightingale, for he cheers my sense of seeing as

much as the other does my sense of hearing. He

the glad prophet of the year, the harbinger of the

best season he lives life of enjoyment amongst thea
loveliest forms of nature; winter unknown to him;

and he leaves the green meadows of England in

autumn for the myrtle and orange groves of Italy,

and for the palms of Africa. He has always objects

of pursuit, and his success secure. Even the beings
a
     a
                                  is
                                          a
                                           a is
                                                               a
selected for his prey are poetical, beautiful, and tran

sient. The ephemera: are saved by his means from

slow and lingering death in the evening, and killed

in moment, when they have known nothing of life

but pleasure. He the constant destroyer of insects,

the friend of man, and, with the stork and the ibis,

may be regarded as sacred bird. His instinct,

which gives him his appointed seasons, and teaches

him always when and where to move, may be re

garded as flowing from Divine source; and he
belongs to the oracles of nature, which speak the

awful and intelligible language of present Deity."
   As an instance of description of scenery, may be

                          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.           289

introduced the opening of the fourth day in the West

Highlands, in which the incident, as a heightening
one of wild nature, of the eagles teaching their

you"nPgotioeflty.--, iIs  related.  be  tired.-This  is really
                          begin to

a long day's journey; and these last ten miles
through bogs, with no other view than that of moun

tains half hid in mists, and brown waters that can

hardly be called lakes, and with no other trees than

a few stunted birches, that look so little alive that

they might be supposed immediately descended from

the bog-wood every where scattered beneath our
feet, have rendered it extremely tedious. This is

Ithe most barren part of one of the most desolate

countries have ever passed through in Europe; and
though the inn at Strathgarve is tolerable, that of

IAuchnasheen is certainly the worst have ever seen,
I Iand hope the worst shall ever see. We ought to

have good amusement at Pool Ewe, to compensate

for this uncomfortable day's journey.

   " Hal.---I trust we shall have sport, as far as`

salmon and sea trout can furnish sport. But the
difliculties of our journey are almost over. See Loch.

Maree is stretched at our feet, and a good boat with

four oars will carry us` in four or five hours to our
fishing ground, -- a time that will not be misspent;
for this lake is not devoid of beautiful and even

gra"ndP0siceetn.e--ryT. he scenery begins to improve, and
that cloud-breasted mountain on the left is of the best

character of Scotch mountains; these woods, like

Iwise, are respectable for this northern country.
Ithink see islands also in the distance, and the quan

tity of cloud always gives effect to this kind of view;

voL. II.                            U

290 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE 0F

and perhaps without such assistance to the ima

gination there would be nothing even approaching to

the sublime in these countries; but cloud and mist,

by creating obscurity, and offering a substitute for
greatness and distance, give something of an Alpine

and   majestic character to this region.         in  the

   "  Orn. -- As we are now fixed in our places

boat, you will surely put out a rod or two with a set
of flies, or try the tail of the par for a large trout or

salmon ; our fishing will not hinder our progress.

  I"Hal. -- In most other lakes should do so; here
I have often tried the experiment, but never with

success. This lake is extremely deep, and there are

very few fish which haunt it generally, except char;

and salmon seldom rest but in particular parts along

the shore, which we shall not touch. Our voyage

Iwill be a picturesque rather than an angling one.

see we shall have little occasion for the oars, for a

strong breeze is rising, and blowing directly down

the lake. We shall be in it in a minute. Hoist the

sails! on we go! We shall make our voyage in half

I Ithe number of hours had calculated upon; and

hope to catch a salmon in time for dinner.
    " Poiet;---The scenery improves as we advance

nearer the lower parts of the lake. The mountains

become higher, and that small island or penihsula

presents a bold craggy outline ; and the birch wood

below and the pines above, form scene somewhat? it,
                 it
Alpine in character. But what  that large bird
                     is

                                ;

                              it
                                   is

                                            is a

                                                   it

                                                                      a
                                                                         a
soaring above the pointed rock towards the end of

the lake Surely  an eagle!
" Hal.--You are right
                       an eagle, and of rare

and peculiar species-- the grey or silver eagle;

noble bird From the size of the animal, must be
             !

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                 291

Ithe female, and her aéry is that high rock.                     dare

I Isay the male is not far off.
   " Phys. --_ think see another bird of a smaller

size, perched on the rock below, which is similar in

form.

   " Hal.--You do; it is the consort of that beautiful

Iand powerful bird, and have no doubt their young

ones are near at hand.

   " Poiet.-- Look at the bird ! How she dashes into

the water, falling like a rock, and raising a column

of spray. She has dropped from a great height, and
now she rises again into the air: what an extraor

dinary sight !
   " Hal. --She is pursuing her prey, and is one of

our fraternity,--a catcher of fish. She has missed her

quarry this time, and has soared further down towards

the river, to fall again from a great height. There!

you see her rise with a fish in her talons.

  I" Poiet. -- She gives an interest to this scene

which hardly expected to have found. Pray are

Ithe"reHmaaln.y--oOf fthetsheisansipmeaclisesin  this country ?  these
                                                  have seen but
Itwo, and believe the young ones migrate as soon

as they can provide for themselves; for this solitary
bird requires a large space to move and feed in, and

does not allow its offspring to partake its reign, or to

live near it. Of other species of the eagle there are

some in different parts of the mountains, particularly

Iof the osprey, and of the great fishing or brown eagle.
   once saw a very fine and interesting sight above

Ione of the crags of Ben Weevis, near Strathgarve, as

   was going on the 20th of August in pursuit of

blaek game. Two parent eagles were teaching their

u2

292 rum`ro1ns or THE LIFE or

offspring, two young birds, the manoeuvres `of flight.`

They began by rising from the top of a mountain, in

the eye of the sun(it was about mid-day, and bright
for this climate). They at first made small circles,

and the young birds imitated them ; they paused on
their wings, waiting till they had made their first

flight, and then took asecond and larger gyration,

always rising towards the sun, and enlarging their

circle of flight so as to `make a gradually extending
spiral. The young ones still slowly followed, ap

parently flying better as they mounted; and they con

tinued this sublimekind of exercise, always rising, till

they became mere points in the air, and the young

ones were lost, .and afterwards their ` parents, to our

Iaching sight."
      shall give only one quotation more, as a specimen
of the manner in which he blended discussions of in-

teresting points of natural history with his favourite
--Iart; and as it relates to a most` interesting subject,
--the instincts of animals,  shall give it without

curtailment, with the important application which is
made from it to religious belief: --
 . " Poiet. -- You transiently referred, - Halieus, yes

terday, to that instinct of salmons which induces

them to run up rivers from the sea on the approach

of rain. You have had so many opportunities of at

Itending to the instincts of the inferior animals, that

should be very glad to hear your opinion on that very

curious subject,-- the nature and development of in`

stincts in general.
  I" Hal.--You must remember that in the con

versation to which you allude, avoided even to pre
tend to define the nature of instinct; but I shall

         SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.  `  29.8

willingly discuss the subject; and I expectfrom your

selfi Ornither, and Physicus, more light thrown upon

Iit than can hope to bestow.
  I" Orn.-- believe we have each a particular .view

Ion this matter. In discussion we may enlighten and

correct each other. For myself, consider instincts
merely as results.of organisation, -- a part of the ma
chinery of organised forms. Man is so constituted
that his muscles acquire their power by habit ; their

motions are at first automatic, and become voluntary

by associations, so that a child must learn to walk as
he learns to swim or write ; but in the colt or chicken,

the limbs are formed with the powers of motion ; and

these animals walk as soon as they have quitted the

Iwomb or the egg.

   " Phys. -- believe it possible that they may have

I Iacquired these powers of motion in the embryo state ;

and think have observed that birds learn to fly,
and acquire the use of their wings, by continued

efl'orts, in the same manner as a child does that of his

Ilimbs.                              .

" Om. -- cannot agree with you; the legs of the

foetus are folded up in the womb of the mare; and

neither the colt nor the chicken can ever have per
formed in the embryo state any motion of their legs,

similar to those which they have perfectly at their

command when born. Young birds cannot fly as

soon as they are hatched, because they have no wing

feathers; but as soon as these are developed, and

` even. before they are perfectly strong, they use their

wings, fly, and quit their nests without any education

from their parents. Compare a young quail when a
few days old with a child of as many months: he

flies, runs, seeks his food, avoids danger, and obeys

         U3

294 mznorns or THE LIFE or

the call of his mother; whilst a child is perfectly
helpless, and can perform few voluntary motions;
has barely learnt to grasp, and can neither stand nor
walk. But to see the most perfect instance of in
stinct, as contrasted with acquired knowledge, look
at common domestic poultry: as soon as they are ex
cluded from the egg they run round their mother,
nestle in her feathers, and obey her call without

education ; she leads them to some spot where there

is soft earth or dung, and instantly begins scratching
with her feet; the chickens watch her motions with

the utmost attention; if an earthworm or larva is

turned up, they instantly seize and devour it; but

they avoid eating sticks, grass, or straws; and though

the hen shows them the example of picking up grain,

they do not imitate her in this respect, but for some
days prefer ants, or the larvae of ants, to a barley
corn. They may have heard the cluck of their mo
ther in the egg; and having felt the warmth of her
feathers agreeable, you may consider, Physicus, their

Icollecting under her wings, and obeying her call, as

an acquired habit. But will mention another cir
cumstance, where habit or education is entirely out
of the question. Does the mother see the shadow of
a kite on the ground, or hear his scream in the air,
she instantly utters a shrill suppressed cry; the chick
ens, though born that day, and searching round her
with glee and animation for the food which her feet

were providing for them, instantly appear as if thun

derstruck ; those close to her crouch down, and hide

themselves in the straw; those further off; without

moving from the place, remain prostrate; the hen
looks upward with a watchful eye; nor do they re
sume their feeding till they have been called again by

sm HUMPHRY navr.             295

the cluck of their mother, and warned that the danger

Iis over.

   " Phys. -- certainly cannot explain the acquaint
ance of the little animals with the note of alarm of the

Imother, except upon the principle you have adopted,

and fairly own that their selection of animal food

appears likewise instinctive; yet it is possible that

this selection may depend upon some analogy be

tween the smell of these animal matters and the yolk

Iwhich was for a long time their food in the egg.

   " 0rn.--I find must multiply examples. Examine

young ducks which have been hatched under a hen;

they no sooner quit the shell than they fly to their na

tural element, the water, in spite of the great anxiety
and terror of their foster parent, who in vain repeats

that sound to which her natural children are so obe

dient. Being in the water, they seize insects of every

Ikind, which they can only know from their instincts

to be good for food. It is impossible, think, to ex

plain these facts, except by supposing that they depend

upon feelings or desires in the animals developed with

Itheir organs, which are not acquired, and which are
absolutely instinctive.  will mention another in
stance. A friend of mine was travelling in the in
terior of Ceylon; on the banks of a lake he saw some

fragments of shells of the eggs of the alligator; his

curiosity was excited, and he was induced to search

beneath the surface of the sand; he found several

eggs, which were still entire; he broke the shell of

one of them, when instantly a young alligator came

forth, perfect in all its fimctions and motions. It

ran with great agility ; and when my friend at

tempted to stop it with a stick, assumed athreatening

attitude, and bit the stick with the greatest violence.

                         U4

 296 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

It made directly for the water, which (though born

 by the influence of the sunbeams on the burning

 sand) it seemed to know was its natural and heredi
 tary domain. Here is an animal which, deserted by

its parents, and entirely submitted to the mercy of

nature and the elements, must die if ithad to ac

 quire its knowledge ; but all its powers are given, all
its wants supplied, and even its means of offence

Iand defence implanted by strong and perfect instincts.
   will mention one fact more. Swallows, quails, and

many other birds, migrate in large flocks when their

usual food becomes scarce; and in these cases it may

be said (I anticipate a remark of Physicus) that the

phenomenon depends upon imitation, and that the

Iyoung birds follow the old ones, who have before

made the same flight. But will select the young
cuckoo for an unexceptionable example of the in
stinctive nature of this quality. He is produced from
an egg deposited by his mother in the nest of another
bird, generally the hedge-sparrow. He destroys all

the other young ones hatched in the same nest, and

is supplied with food by his foster parent after he
has deprived her of all her natural offspring. Quite

solitary, he is no sooner able to fly than he quits the
country of his birth, and finds his way, with no other
guide. than his instinct, to a land where his parents
had gone many weeks before him; and he is not
pressed to make this migration by want of food, for
the insects and grains on which he feeds are still
abundant. The whole history of `the origin, educa

tion, and migration of this singular animal, is a his
tory of a succession of instincts, the more remarkable

because in many respects contrary to the usual order
of nature..

                sm HUMPHRY .DAV r.                   297

   " Phys..--I have been accustomed to refer many. of

the supposed instincts of animals, such as migrations,

Ibuilding nests, and selection of food; to imitation;

Ibut confess cannot explain the last fact you have

Ibrought forward on this principle. Pray, Ornither,
let me state your view as understand  it,

                                            I
                                         that we

may not differ as to the meaning of language.

conclude you adopt Hartley's view of association, --
that the motions of the muscles in man are first auto

matic, and become voluntary by association; and

that reason is. the application of voluntary motions
for particular end. For instance, child not
a                                    a
                                                   is

                                                      it
                                                           is
afraid of fire; but bringing its hand near the fire

burnt, and the convulsions of the muscles produced

by the pain end in removing the hand from the

source of pain. These motions by. association are

made voluntary; and after this experiment he `avoids

the fire by reason, and takes care`always to perform

those motions which remove his limbs from the de

structive agent. But in contrasting instinctwith

this slow process, you would say most animals, with
out having felt the effects of fire, have an innate

dread of it; and in the same way, without having

been taught or experienced pleasure or pain from the

object, young` ducks seek the water, young chickens

avoid it; their organs have fitness, or unfitness, for
certain functions without education. In short, the
                   a
                        a

                                 is
instinctive application of the organ independent of
experience, and forms part of train of pure sensa

tions.

   " Orn. -- have no objection to the statement you
   I

          it

                a
make of my view of the subject; but certainly
                                      I

should give to     little more refinement and gene

rality. In all the results of reason ideas are con

298 mznoms or THE nrrs or

cerned, but never in those of instinct. Without

memory there can be no reason; but in instinct, no

thin"gPociaent.b-e--t-rTahcoeudgbhu, tinputrhee  sensation.            no ideas
                                                  animal world,

seem connected with instincts, yet they are all in.

tended for specific and intelligent .ends. Thus the

swallow travels to a country where flies are found ; the
salmon migrates from the sea to the sources of fresh
rivers, where its eggs may receive a supply of aiirated

water, and without this migration the race would be
extinct' ; and in this way all the instincts of animals

    ' Dr. Knox, in his paper entitled " Observations on the Natural
History of the Salmon," &c., published in the twelfth volume of the
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, appears to call in
question the accuracy of the above opinion of my brother, relative to

the influence of aérated water on the ova of the salmon. The grounds

of his objection, to me, appear exceedingly unsatisfactory. It would
occupy too much space here to consider them in detail, or to review his
criticisms on my brother, which from one man of science on another,
Iand the latter no more, are less liberal and courteous than could have
Iexpected, even

Knox says, that
                w"eSreir  they just,         which cannot consider them. Dr.
                          Humphry            Davy had a theory that all the salmon
Ikind feed on one kind of food." This is a mistake, and cannot com.
prehend how Dr. Knox fell into it.. My brother, in many places in his

Salmonia, notices the very different kinds of food of different species
of salmo and varieties of the same species ; as of the char and gillaroo

trout feeding on hard shell-fish, the large lake trout feeding chiefly on
small fish, and the small trout of mountain streams and torrents living
poorly and precariously.
    Dr. Knox says, that my brother, "unable to explain why the true

salmon, when taken in rivers even newly run, have the stomach quite
empty, imagined a silly notion that this abstemiousness of the sal
mon arose from an instinct instructing him not to load his stomach
on the eve of a long journey." This is not decorous criticism: the

idea was founded on facts, which my brother relates. It may be that
Dr. Knox's explanation of the apparent empty state of the stomach of

the fish when caught in rivers is correct, viz. that its proper food is

only to be found in the sea, such as the minute ova of the echino
dermata, and of some of the crustacea,--an opinion the correctness of

which must be determined by further and more extended observations.

The teeth of the salmon, judging from their form and size, are hardly
in               with
    accordance           su"chthbaet inSgir  their sole food.                     ofa
    Dr. Knox    states,                       Humphry Davy,    on the  authority

          sm HUMPHRY navr.                       299

may be referred to intelligence, which, though not

belonging to the animal, must be attributed to the

Divine Mind. Is it not then reasonable to refer in
stinct to the immediate impulse of the Author of
Nature upon His creatures? His omnipresence and

omnipotence cannot be doubted, and to the Infinite
Mind the past, the present, and the future are
alike; and creative and preservative power must

equally belong to it.
   " Hal.--Tha`t instincts depend upon impulses im.

mediately derived from the Deity, is an opinion which,
though it perhaps cannot be confuted, yet does not

please me so much as to believe them dependent

upon the formation of organs, and the result of the
general laws which govern the system of the uni

person of the name of Jacobi, says, ` that the ova of salmon are depo
sited in
aérated,  the gravel of rivers  under  streams,  adthdaintg,th"eythmisayreabseonp, erwfehcitclyh
          or exposed to water   which  is so ;'

appears so plausible, is probably not the true one." My brother gives
the experience of Jacobi, not for the purpose Dr. Knox supposes, but

relative to the means of breeding fish artificially (vide Salmonia, p. 80.,
Where Mr. Jacobi's method is described, taken from Block's Ichthyolo

gie, under the head of Salmo Fario). The statement of my brother,

Ithat the salmon seeks for its breeding place the situations specified, was

founded on experience of his own, and might almost say on universal

experience, and confirmed by various analogies.

   Dr. Knox, because my brother states that the whale has no swim
ming bladder, concludes that he is ignorant of physiology and of ana

tomy, and therefore incompetent to make observations on the generation

of the salmon. Dr. Knox might as well maintain that the late Baron

Cuvier was ignorant of these sciences because he erroneously states that

the frog and toad and Batraciens generally have a single auricle. Surely
it is not liberal nor just to draw such a sweeping conclusion from a cir..
Ifcumstance so limited.
                         it be a fact that the whale has a swimming blad
Ider, it is an extraordinary one, and contrary to analogy ; nor am aware
Iit is noticed by our best authorities on natural history, at least have
not been able to find mention of it either in Cuvier's Regne Animal, or

Iin Hunter's Observations on the Structure and Economy of Whales, or

in any other work on natural history, which have had an opportunity to

consult, even including Dr. Knox's own papers pecially on these animals.

300 MEMOIRS 0F THE LIFE or

verse ; and it is in favour of this opinion that they are
susceptible of modifications. Thus in domesticated

animals they are always changed; the turkey and the

duck lose their habits of constructing nests, and the
goose does not migrate. In supposing them the
result of organisation and hereditary, they might be

expected to be changed by circumstances, as ` they

are actually found to be. Without referring the in
stincts of animals to the immediate impulse of the

Deity, they appear to me to offer the most irresistible

and convincing argument that can be brought forward

against Atheism. ` They demonstrate combinations, the

result of the most refined intelligence, which can only
be considered as infinite. Take any one of the lowest

class of animals, insects, for instance; not only is their

organisation fitted to` all their wants, but their asso

ciation in society is provided for; and the laws of a

perfect social community, as it were, are adopted by

creatures that we are sure cannot reason. In the

hive-bee, for instance, the instinct of the workers

ifleads them to adopt and obey a queen ; and she
aa
                                                                          `is
taken away from them, or dies, they have the power

of raising another from offspring in the cells by an

almost miraculous process; they work under her

government for common object; they allow males

to exist only for specific purpose and limited time,

and under the government of females, who preserve

the society; they send forth swarms, which readily

place themselves under the protection of man. In

the geometrical construction of their cells, the secre

tion of wax from their bodies, the collecting their
                                                         series of
food, and the care of their brood, there
it

                     a
                                             is
                                                      a
results which requires strong reason to follow,

and which are. the consequences of invariable instincts.

sm HUMPHRY navy.  301`

Bees,`since they have been noticed by naturalists,
have the same habits; and as it is probable that there
have been many thousands of generations since the
creation, it is evident that the instincts of the first

bees have been hereditary and invariable in their off
spring; and it cannot be doubted that they do now,.
as they did four thousand years ago, make some
cells in combs larger than others, for the purpose of
containing the eggs and future grubs of drones that
are to be produced by a grub which they are educating

for a queen bee, and that these cells are connected

with the common cells by a series, in which the most
exact geometrical laws of transition are observed.
An eminent philosopher has deduced an argument in

favour of the existence of Deity from the analogy of
the universe to a piece of mechanism which could
only be the work of an intelligent mind: but there is
this difference, -- in all the productions of nature the
principle not only of perfection, but likewise of con
servation, is found; marking a species of intelligence

and power which can be compared to nothing human.
The first-created swarm of bees contained beings pro

vided with all the instincts necessary for the per
petual continuance of the species, and some of these

instincts can scarcely be understood by man, requir

ing the most profound geometrical knowledge even

to calculate their results; and other instincts involve

what in human society would be the mostsingular
state of policy, combining contrasted moral causes

and contradictory interests. It is impossible not to

be lost in awe at the contemplation of this chain of
facts ; the human mind cannot fail to acknowledge in
them the strongest proofs of their being produced by
infinite wisdom and unbounded power; and the de

SOQ mnuoms or THE urn or

vout philosopher can scarcely avoid considering with

respect a little insect, endowed with faculties pro

ducing combinations which human reason vainly at

tempts to imitate, and can scarcely understand.

  " Phys.`-I agree with you that if instinct be sup

posed the result of organisation, and that the first

animal types were so created as to transmit their in

stincts invariably, generation after generation, it does

offer a most triumphant and incontrovertible argument
for the existence of an All-powerful. Intelligent Cause.

Even in the instance which led to this conversation,--`

the instinct which carries salmon from the sea to the

sources of rivers,--it is only lately philosophers have

discovered that the eggs cannot produce young fishes

independent of the influence of air; and thus an ani
mal goes many hundred miles under the direction of

an instinct, the use of which human reason has at

length developed, and man is supplied with an abun

dant food by the result of a combination in conse

Iquence of which  a species is preserved.    your ob
                   not understand, Halieus,
   " Poiet.---I do
jections to the view have adopted, which is sanc

tioned by the authority of a good ethic philosopher,

IAddison. Allowing the omnipresence and constant

power of Deity, do not see how you can avoid ad

mitting His actual interference in all the phenomena

I Iof living nature.        cannot confute your

   " Hal.--As said before,

view; but upon this principle, gravitation and the
motion of the planets round the sun, and all the other

Iphysical phenomena of the universe, would be owing

to the immediate action of the Divinity. prefer the

view which refers them to motion and properties, the

results of general laws impressed on matter by Omni

                sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                   303

potence. This view         think, simpler; but
                a                                  it
                                                       ; is
                    iIs,
difficult to form any distinct opinion on so high and

incomprehensible subject, on which, perhaps, after

all, wiser to confess our entire ignorance, and to
I it
      isbow down in humble adoration to the One Incompre

hensible Cause of all Being.
   " Poiet.--I agree with you in your last sentence

but still adhere to my own view, and hope you
                                  is I
will not object to favourite opinion of mine,--- that
                a

instincts are to animals what revelation to man, in

tended to supply wants in their physical constitution,

which in man are provided by reason and that reve
                           ;

islation to him an instinct, teaching him what reason

cannot,---his religious duties, the undying nature of
his intellectual part, and the relations of his conduct

to eternal happiness and misery.                                     `

   " Hal.--` Davus sum non (Edipus.'    will not
                it a
attempt to discuss this view of yours, Poietes; but
                          I it
think may say that all the instincts of animals seemin I
is I                                         is I
to be connected with pleasure or utility. Perhaps

there no more pleasurable state of the human mind

than when with intense belief looks forward to an

other world, and to better state of existence, or

absorbed in the adoration of the Supreme and Eternal

Intelligence."

The concluding part of the work,        which, in

the character of Physicus, he describes his state of

mind and sentiment when he wrote, with the feelings

of earlier and happier life, are too characteristic and

impressive to be withheld; and shall insert the para

graph or two which contain them, and are connected

with them, though was my intention to have intro

duced no more quotations.

304-`  MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE or

The angling friends walk to the rock above the fall
of the Traun, about to part in different directions :--
" Hal.--But our horses are ready, and the time
Iof separation arrives. trust we shall all have a happy
Imeeting in England in the winter.
                                    have made you
Iidlers at home and abroad, but hope to some pur-.
Ipose; and trust you will confess the time bestowed

on angling has not been thrown away. The most im

portant principle, perhaps, in life, is to have a pursuit,

--a useful one if possible, and at all events an innocent

one ; and the scenes you have enjoyed, the contem

plations to which they have led, and the exercise in
Iwhich you indulged, have, am sure, been very salu-`
I Itary to the body,` and hope to the mind.
                                             have.

always found a peculiar effect from this kind of life ;

it has appeared to bring me back to early times and

feelings, and to create again the hopes and happiness

of youthful days.
   " Phg/s.--I felt something like what you described ;

Iand were convinced that in the cultivation of the
Iamusement these feelings would increase, would

Idevote myself to it with passion; but fear in my
Icasethis is impossible. Ah! could recover anything
Ilike that freshness of mind which possessed at

twenty-five, and which, like the dew of the dawning

morning, covered all objects and nourished all things

that grew, and in which they were more beautiful

Ithan in mid sunshine, what would not give? All
Ithat have gained in an active and not unprofitable
Ilife. How well remember that delightful season,
Iwhen, full of power, sought for power `in others;

and power was sympathy,` and sympathy power ; when

the dead and the unknown, the great of other ages,

         sra HUMPHRY `DAVY.  305

and of distant places, were made by the force of the

imagination my companions and friends; when every
voice seemed one of praise and love ; when every
flower had the bloom and odour of the rose; and

every spray or plant seemed either the poet's laurel or
the civic oak, which appeared to offer themselves as
wreaths to adorn my throbbing brow. But, alas! this

Icannot be ! and even you cannot have two springs in

life; though have no doubt you have fishing days in
which the feelings` of youth return, and that your

autumn has a more vernal character than mine."

VOL.lI.  X

306 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

                        CHAPTER VII.

REVISITS THE CONTINENT~--EXTRACTS FROM HIS JOURNAL----LETTERS
                                                           ISCHL. -- EX
TO HIS  BROTHER FROM AUSSEE  IN STYRIA, AND    F"RTOHME
TRACTS  FROM HIS JOURNAL IN  CONTINUATION.---               LAST OF THE

O,DONOGHUES," AN IRISH STORY; WRITTEN AT WURZEN. --- LETTER TO

HIS BROTHER FROM LAYBACH.--EXPERIMENTS ON THE TORPEDO AT

TRIESPE. -- LETTERS FROM ROME.----OCCUPATIONS TI-IERE.--N0`1`E ON

THE BRITISH MUSEUM, WITH SUGGESTIONS FOR ITS IMPROVEMENT.--

SUDDEN ATTACK OF DANGEROUS ILLNESS.---LETTERS WRITTEN FROM

HIS DICTATION.--PARTICULARS OF HIM DURING HIS ILLNESS-------N0

-TICES OF LITTLE EXCURSIONS WITH HIM IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF

ROME- ---IOURNEY FROM ROME TO GENEVA----- HIS NOTICE OF DR
THOMAS YOUNG. --THE CLOSE OF HIS LIFE----PUBL1C FUNERAL.
CONJECTURE5 RESPECTING HIS MALADY.

I AM approaching the end of my task, and it is now

Ia sad one; for have to record my brother's last

journey and the close of his life.

Not finding his health improve materially or per
manently at home, he decided, with the consent of

his physicians, on quitting England for his favourite

Alpine regions in Southern Austria. There he pro

Iposed to spend the summer, and in winter to descend
into Italy.   " was     d"eosifroaugsa,"in~hpeasssaiynsg,  in his " Con
solations in  Travel,"                                     some time in

these scenes, in the hope of re-establishing a broken

Iconstitution ; and though this hope was a feeble one,

yet at least expected to spend a few of the last
days of life more tranquilly and more agreeably

than in the metropolis of my own country. Nature,"
he adds, in a strain of melancholy sentiment and high
admiration, "Nature never deceives us. The rocks,

      sm HUMPHRY DAVY.         307

the mountains, the streams, always speak the same

language. A shower of snow may hide the verdant

woods in spring; a thunder storm may render the
blue limpid streams foul and turbulent: but these

effects are rare and transient; in a few hours, or at

least days, all the sources of beauty are renovated;
and Nature affords no continued trains of misfortunes

and miseries, such as depend upon the constitution

of humanity,--no hopes for ever blighted in the
bud,--no beings full of life, beauty, and promise,
taken from us in the prime of youth. Her fruits are.
all balmy, bright, and sweet; she affords none of

those blighted ones so common in the life of man,
and so like the fabled apples of the Dead Sea,--fresh

and beautiful to the sight, but, when tasted, full of

bitterness and ashes."

   He set out from London on the 29th of March,
accompanied by Mr. Tobin (now Dr. Tobin), the
eldest son of his early friend, Mr. James Tobin, a

young gentleman who had nearly completed his

medical studies. Passing through Austrian Flanders,

they crossed from the Rhine to the Danube; and
from thence at Donanworth, proceeding southward,

the season not being sufliciently advanced to enjoy

the Alpine country, they travelled without much

delay to Laybach, where they arrived on the 4th of .

May.                                                      `

At Laybach, for a little while he amused himself

with fishing and shooting, and extending his ob
servations on natural history. The petzardone was

then in the marshes, and the hucho in the rivers.

In the stomach of the former, in many instances, he
found a peculiar caterpillar, that of the Eporris cincta
of Borelli, which he believed might be the proper

                        X2  .

-808       MEMOIRS OF` THE LIFE OF

food of this bird,. and partly the object of its migra
tion; and about the gills of many of the huchos

which he caught he observed many leeches. This

he connected with a general remark, which is entered
in his note book, that " almost all the salmones,

before and at the time oftheir migrations, are troubled
with parasitic animals." He continues ---- " Are not

these the cause of their migration? `Yet why?--

Those gainedin warm water are destroyed by cold

water; those gained in the sea are destroyed by fresh
                     `
water."                                           `

   On the  18th of   May he quitted   Laybach,    on  his
           to his "  old haunts," an  expression      his
way back                                          of

own, which `he uses in an` entry in his journal of the

22d, prefixed to an animated though brief description

of scenery.--~"22d. To my`old haunt, Wurzen,

Which is'sublime in the majesty of Alpine grandeur;
the snowy peaks `of the Noric Alps risingabove

thunder clouds, whilst spring in all its bloom and

beauty blooms below; its buds and blossoms adorn

ing the face of nature under a frowning canopy of

dark clouds, like some Judith beauty of Italy,--a
Transteverene brow and eye, and a mouth of Venus
                        ``
and the Graces."

    Here he spent a few days. On the 24th he went
. to Raibl and to the Fletzbach brooks, intending, as
 he says in his journal, " to have gone to the source of
 the Isonio, but was shown by a misinformed person

 Ithree `or four torrents, feeders of this river, in a glen

 as wild as any thing have ever seen." He adds, --
 " The lake of Raibl` very fine; perhaps assublime,

amidst fine woods, and perpendicular rocks, and

snowy mountains, as any scene in Switzerland."

Proceeding towards Ischl, he spent about a week

                   sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                           `309

Iin the beginning of June at Aussee. From thence

had the `satisfaction of recéiving from him the follow

ing 1etteri--.

  `" MY DEAR Jorm,       " Aussee in Styria, June3. 1828.

I" hoped to have    `. . .

                    found a letter from you at
IRatisbon, but was disappointed. Indeed, from the
of Iexperience                 almost despair of any
                   last year,

regular correspondence between us, whilst we are
both in foreign countries. Notwithstanding the long,

Isevere, and depressing malady under which still
Ilabour, am not entirely without the hope of ultimate

recovery, and the few pleasures thatI retain in this my
state of earthly purgatory have principally reference

Ito the enjoyments and prospects of my friends; and

I Iindulge in the idea that you are well and happy, and

enjoying a life, which can say only support, sup

posing that it pleases Omniscience to preserve me for

I Isome ends which cannot understand, but which

trust belong to the great plan of goodness and mercy

Ibelonging to the Divine Mind.

   " have made another visit to Laybach, and have

seen some new and beautiful scenes. The valley of

Ithe Save, with its cataracts and lakes, particularly
struck.me.         have seen nothing so beautiful in
Europe. It suits me better to while away my days

in this solitary state of existence, in the contemplation

of Nature, than to attempt to enter into London

society, where recollections call up the idea of what
I was, and the want of bodily power teaches me
I Iwhat a shadow `am.
                               make notes in natural

history, `fish, and prepare for another edition of my

Salmonia  ;  ride  amongst the lakes      a. nd mountains  ;  and
                                    X8 .

310      MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

Iattach the loose fringe of hope as much as possible to
my tattered garments.         am now going to Ischl,
where there are warm salt baths, to try if they will
Irenovate the muscular power of my arm and leg.
This is a new experiment.     am disposed to think,

with Dr. Philip and Charles Bell, that the radical evil

in my case is diseased sensibility in the nerves of the

digestive organs, affecting by sympathy the whole

sensorial system, and that the determination of blood

Ito the head is only a secondary symptom.

   " intend to be in Ischl till the end of July.

You will know by the time when you receive this letter
I Ifwhether have a chance of hearing from you.
Inot, you had better address me at Laybach, where
Iintend to be again some time in September.
                                             wish

Ito go to Trieste in October, to make the experiments
   have long projected on the torpedo. God bless

you, my dear John I
          " Your affectionate friend and Brother,
                                                    " H. Davr."

From Ischl he thus wrote me : --

     I" MY DEAR JOHN,         " Ischl, June 24. 1828.

" received your letter addressed to me at Ratisbon

here a few days ago; it was dated Corfu; but from
Ithe names of the friends you mention, conclude it
Imust have been transmitted from Malta.
                                         am sorry

that you feel indisposed ; but with your temperate

habits, knowledge of your constitution, and medical
Iskill, doubt not that your indisposition will be tran
Isient.
         have been here a fortnight; the scenery is

Ibeautiful, the temperature agreeable, and the Traun
contains trout and grayling.  have used the warm

         . sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                             311

Isaline baths with, think, beneficial effects, and I`

Ishall continue to use them as long as they seem to
do me any good.     have nearly recovered the flexi

bility of the affected limbs, but not their former
Istrength; and this can hardly hope to do as long as
I am obliged to
Imedicine, but   live so low, and use so much  aloetic
                 shall go on,--` speranza.' "
I" am afraid you are in a bad situation for assist-`

Iing me in my inquiries respecting natural history;

but the governor", who know is an ardent and

excellent sportsman, may aid you. The other day;
Iat Laybach,
                 ascertained that the double snipe,
Iwhich shot as late as the 17th May, fed only on a
Iparticular white larva, which believe is found in

IEurope only in the early spring and late autumn.

  should like exceedingly to know if the stomachs of

Ithose which migrate through the islands in the Me-.

diterranean contain the same kind of food. strongly

suspect that the peculiar habits of locomotion of these

animals depend upon the places and times where this

food is found: the common snipe seems equally fond

Iof earthworms and every kind of larva; but in the

stomachs of the double snipe have never found any

Ifotherexcept this  peculiar worm.     or  intelligent           .`
         you meet   with any officers
   "                                                    tra`

Ivellers who have been on the Black Sea, pray inquire
if the hucho and if the eel are found there.   should

suppose that the eel is unknown both in the Black

Sea and the Caspian. You may see some Russians
Iin Sir Edward Codrington's fleet who can give you
information on this subject.  suppose the hucho

         ' The Hon. Sir Frederic Ponsonby.

                              X 4'

312 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

will be found in the Don, Dniester, and Dnieper,~.

Iwhich will be, if my conjecture is true, without eels. I

   " hardly know. what place.to fix upon for the
purpose of . a secure point of correspondence. You.

may as.well address here, as the letters will be for

Iwarded as long. as continue I in Austria. Should .I
Ibecome convalescent, and go to Italy, shall hope to

see you there. Pray present my compliments to Sir

Frederic Ponsonby, and remember me very kindly.

to Sir Edward and Lady Codrington, Mr. Frere,

and Sir John Stoddart.
        I" am, my dear John, .
" Your most affectionate Brother and Friend,
                                                        .
                            "   H.
                                    DAVYQ

  `" Let me know, if you can, if any ` salmo' is found
in the warm parts of the Mediterranean ; i. e. if there

is any fish analogous to our sea trout."

In his journal on the 28d of July, at the same
--"place, he writes,
Ihere.                This day completes my bathing
        have used forty-one douches and baths, -- a
I Ifair experiment.
                        hardly know if have gained
Ifrom the use of . the saline water. Generally, have

Igained a little in the flexibility of the limbs : the fly

rod, think, has been more useful thanthe element
on which it is used."

   His mind at this time, as if refined and sharpened

by the discipline to which the corporeal system was

subjected, appeared to have been even more than

usually active and contemplative. Hisnote-books as

well as letters indicate this. It was now that he wrote

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                        313

a considerable part of the additions which he de
signed for a second edition of " Salmonia," in value

exceeding and in bulk almost equalling the original

text. It was here that he planned, in part, his last

work, so appropriately' named " Consolations in Tra

vel," or, " The Last Daysof a Philosopher," and
composed the first portion of the opening dialogue,

called " The Vision," the sketch of which he began
a
                                     a

                                            it,
on cloudy day, when the water was still discoloured

by late rains, and consequently unfavourable for fly
fishing. And he appears to have contemplated at the
same time other works, of which merely hints re
main, --works, like " Consolations in Travel," and
" Salmonia," which would have amused him in writ

ing, without requiring greater degree of mental ex

ertion than was compatible with the kind of repose
which he had prescribed for himself.

   From Ischl he renewed his wanderings on the 26th

of July; and by slow journeys, fishing and shooting

by the way, he arrived at Salzburg on the 10th of

August. From thence he as slowly returned towards

Laybach, lingering amidst the magnificent scenery of

these romantic regions, unwilling, as            it  were, to leave
them, and yet requiring change.
                                                 a                                              `
   At Wurzen, where he stopped
                                                     few days, and

where the rain confined him more than usual within

doors, he amused himself with writing little Ro
                                                     a

mance, which, as may amuse the reader, and may
a it
be considered as literary curiosity, do not hesitate
                                                 I
                                                    I
in introducing in this place, satisfied as am that his

reputation cannot be injured by its publication.

314~  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

                " THE LAST OF THE O'DONOGHUES.

                                " AN uusn STORY

" WHEN the Roman Empire was falling under the

attacks of the northern barbarians, and every pro

vince that had belonged to the Imperial people of

fered objects to tempt the cupidity and lust of plunder
that animated those numerous hordes, which from
the east of Scythia to the west of Scandinavia, poured
down like hungry wolves to devastate and destroy,
the only place of refuge for the unfortunate citizens
who bore the Roman name was in those countries

where the Roman eagle had never been planted.
The extreme north of Scotland, the Western Islands,

Ireland, and even Iceland, received refugees from the
Roman provinces, and the early civilisation of these

rude regions is connected with this cause. In Iona,

or Ikoinkill, a fraternity of Roman monks, flying from
Gaul, founded those edifices which were long sacred,
and which the early kings of Scotland, and Norway,
and the Western Islands, chose as the depository of
their ashes, and the ruins of which in so desolate a
situation still astonish the traveller. In Ireland se
veral bodies of emigrants, driven from their abodes
by the Goths and Vandals, established themselves,
and formed colonies: some came from the western
coasts of Gaul and Britain; others from Spain:
a considerable Spanish colony took possession of
Kerry, the most beautiful province of Ireland. This
colony, which has sometimes been called the Milesian,
mixed with the native Celtic sept inhabiting this

country, and became numerous and powerful. It

founded towns on the sea coast; it traded with the

sra HUMPHRY DAVY.  315

opposite shores of Cornwall, Brittany, and Spain ;
and teaching the Roman arts to the natives, imparted
a considerable degree of civilisation. The chief who

embarked in this expedition from Cadiz was named

Patricius Donaus ; and his descendants, for a succes

sion of ages, governed the colony, and the native
Irish united to them, as independent chiefs or sove
reigns, under the name of the kings of Kerry. The
Roman name was gradually corrupted to one more

suited to the Celtic dialect, which had come into use;

and Donoghue, with the patronymic O, was the title
by which these chieftains were distinguished in Ire

land.

   " The last of this race, who is the object of the

present narrative, possessed more power and more

territory than any of his forefathers. They had been

contented with a rude fortified mansion, close to the

town of Kinsale, where they entertained their vassals
in the coarse style of hospitality, in which Celtic
plenty was more conspicuous than Roman refinement.
O'Donoghue, the last of his race, being wealthier
than any of his forefathers, and having obtained a
large quantity of Italian furniture from a Norman

pirate shipwrecked on the coast, changed his resi
dence, and built what in those days was considered

a magnificent palace on the banks of the Lake of Kil

larney. The ruins of this palace, now called Ross

Castle, form a striking feature in the beautiful scenery

of this the most picturesque lake of the British

Islands. O'Donoghue was able to display great mag
nificence in the arrangements of the interior of his
mansion; he adopted a new manner of living, and no

longer entertained his noble guests at the same table
with his menials, but had two halls, in one of which

816  MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

  he himself presided, and to. which the nobles were
  called by the rattling of a silver chain on a silver
  salver. He commanded the whole of Munster below

  the Barrow, and couldcall into thefield an army of

  not less than 20,000 men, under.his knights and im

  mediate vassals. Aboveformingan alliance with any
  of the native princes of Ireland, even the most rich

  and powerful, he sailed with a considerablefleet to
  Norway, for the purpose of demanding in `marriage
  the eldest daughter of the king .of that country, by

  name Bertha, a lady remarkable for her charms.
  His proposals were accepted: he brought his bride

  to Kerry, accompanied by a numerous suite,. and
  lived with regal magnificence in his palace at Ross.
  Bertha, from the charms of her person, and the
  graces of her manner, was highly pleasing to the na

  tive Irish, and for some time the king appeared ex
  ceedingly happy. He employed himself in a manner

  well becoming. a good sovereign, in improving the

  condition of hissubjects, and in administering jus
 tice ; and the queen was a model for the imitation of
  the wives of his higher vassals. `

     " In the suite of Bertha there. came from Norway

  a very remarkable person, who was considered the

 nephew of the king her father, and was one of her
 principal friends and confidants; but the intimacy

  between them appeared no greater than might well

  exist between such near relations, and O'Donoghue
  had willingly invited him to become the guest of his
  cousin at Killarney. The name of the Norwegian
 was Sweno; he was remarkable for the elegance of
. his person, for great strength and activity, and ;for
 the grace with which he performed all martial exer
 cises. .O'Don0ghue had; the dark locks, black eyes,

                   sm HUMPHRY DAVY. .      817

andswarthycomplexion, which marked.his descent

from a southern race. His queen was fair, but had an

burn hair and darker eyes than are common to the

Scandinavian people; Sweno's complexion was. still

fairer than that of his cousin, and his eyes were bright
blue, and his hair of so light a flaxen colour as to be
almost silvery; so it was scarcely possible to see three

persons, when they sat together at table, more strik

ingly contrasted.                      ..
" Sweno soon became as great a favourite with

O'Donoghue as he was with Bertha. He was consulted
by him in all affairs of state; employedby him to

train and discipline his forces ; and, at last, accepted
a command underthe king, as general of the army.

His near relationship to the queen made this appoint

ment less surprising; and by his conciliatory man

ners, great affability, and magnificencein giving en

tertainments and presents (for he seemed both rich
and liberal), he gained the affections of most of
Donoghue's dependants, and became the idol of the
army. In his preceding life O'Donoghue hadnever '

appeared ambitious; but when he reviewed his well

disciplined `.forces, and saw how fitted they were for

military enterprise, he began to conceive plans for
increasing his territory, and yielded to the advice of
Sweno, who proposed his attempting the conquest of

the western part of Connaught, then under an inde
pendent chief. In these rude. times a pretext for war
was easily found in the quarrels of some dependants,
and the king marched with his army into the heart of

the country he was desirous of conquering, and made
himself master of Limeric, and of theperson of the

chief whom he had attacked. . After this it became

easy to subjugate the .undisciplined_kerns, who still

318 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

offered resistance; and in a few months` the con
quest of the territory of O'Shaugnissy was completed.
Sweno advised him to remain some time at Limeric
for the purpose of conciliating the affections of his

new subjects; and by his command returned to Kil

larney with a numerous suite, for the purpose of es
corting Bertha in state to her husband. The danger
of intrusting so much power over the army to a fo
reigner had not escaped the notice of some of
O'Donoghue's oldest and wisest counsellors. One of
them, who held the highest place in his esteem,
named O'Brien, had remonstrated with his chief on
the impolicy of his conduct, and had particularly
pointed out the impropriety of trusting the young
queen to the escort of so handsome, so agreeable,
and so enterprising a relative ; but O'Donoghue was
deaf to these representations, placing unlimited con
fidence in Sweno.

   " Sweno did not return with the queen as soon as
was expected; but O'Donoghue received the most
tender letters from her, pointing out a slight indis
position as one cause of the delay, and, as another, the
necessity of appeasing by her presence some slight
discontents which had arisen in the western part of
Kerry. The king was satisfied with these excuses;
and as the first offered hints that the queen was in a
state likely to provide his kingdom with an heir, he

was contented that she should remain some time

longer at Killarney.
    " Meanwhile the independent chieftains of Con

naught and Ulster did not see with indifference
O'Donoghue's extension of his territory; for they

considered his first attempt as the commencement

of a plan for the subjugation of the whole of Ireland.

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  , 319

   They held councils, raised numerous levies, and ap.
   pointed Connor, a brave warrior, the son of the king
  of Ulster, to the command of their united forces.
   And they sent heralds to O'Donoghue, announcing
   that unless he immediately set O'Shaughnissy at
  liberty, and put him again into possession of his ter
   ritories, they would directly commence hostilities

  aga"inOst'Dhoimno. ghue, confiding in the strength of his
   army and the courage and skill of Sweno, sent an

   angry reply to the assembled chieftains, and war was
   the immediate consequence. He at first gained some

   slight successes ; but being opposed by almost the whole

  strength of Ireland, these were transient, and he was

   soon driven back from Connaught, and obliged to

  take refuge in the mountains of Kerry. He had sent

   messenger after messenger to Sweno, who remained
  with a part of his army at Killarney, and received

   always the same answer, that he was immediately

  about to join him, and that his delay arose only from

   his levying new forces to ensure his triumph.
   O'Donoghue was now in a miserable situation :

` hemmed in on all sides by his enemies, he was

  obliged to make his stand on the fortified mountain
  of Innesmoor; and there he was in danger of perish
  ing for want of provisions, unless he indeed pre
  ferred the perilous alternative of fighting with his
  enemies under great disadvantages of situation and
  number. This, his last resource, he was at length

  compelled to adopt; and bringing all his martial

  Kerrymen to bear upon the weakest part of the
  enemy's line, he attempted to cut his way through it
  in the pass of Dunglo, which opens on Killarney.
  The contest was furious and bloody. O'Donoghue

820 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

fought with great bravery, killed numbers of the

enemy with his own single hand, and had nearly
made his way` with a `chosen band of followers,

through the line, when he was arrested by Connor,

the hero of Ulster. Afurious combat immediately

commenced between these two champions ; the king

of Kerrywas struck from his horse wounded, and was
about to render himself prisoner when shouts in

the distance were heard. The noise of trumpets
and the neighing of horses announced the arrival of
a large body of cavalry, and frustrated the triumph of

the Ulster men. O'Donoghue recognised Sweno at

the head of them; his long flaxen locks floating

down his shoulders, and his animated presence and

triumphant air giving him the character of the genius

of victory. Nothing could withstand his attack:

Connor fell in the field under his powerful arm;
O'Donoghue's scattered bands rallied; the men of

Kerry were every where successful; and in a few
days Kerry was completely cleared of the Ulster and

Connaught kerns, and O'Donoghue being reinstated

in possession of the domains of O'Shaugnissy, pro

posals for peace were exchanged between` the con

tending parties. O'Donoghue generously gave up
the town of Limeric and a part of the surrounding

country to O'Shaughnissy; and by the advice` of

Sweno entered into a solemn compact with the

kings of Ulster and Connaught never to pass the
Barrow with any forces, to limit the number of his

army, and   to attempt no new plans of conquest.
            being restored, O'Donoghue, with Sweno,
   " Peace

returned to. the queen at Killarney; his confidence

in Sweno re-established, and if possible increased, by

the late events: the whole party `appeared as happy as

          ` sm HUMPHRY DAVY. ;  321

success, love, and friendship could make them. But ru

mourshad spread amongst the soldiers ofO'Donoghue,

that Sweno did not owe his peculiar power and suc

cess in combat to mere human means ; it was believed

that he was supernaturally gifted. Stories were cur

rent that his cream-coloured charger had been seen
to emit flames of fire from his nostrils on the day

of his triumph in the field; and the easy conquest
which he made of the hero Connor, and of so large a

body of veteran warriors, was attributed to magic.

It was said, moreover, that there were peculiar Runic

characters marked on his shield, and that he had

been observed at midnight on the island of Mucrish

Abbey sitting by a fire of his own kindling; and that

on this occasion unearthly forms were seen flitting

around him, and unearthly voices heard, and music

which appeared to be of another world. These

rumours reached the ear of O'Donoghue,who attended

but little to them, and only mentioned them to the

queen, who did not treat them so slightly as he` had

expected; but said ` My cousin certainly is a won

derful man, and even at the court of my father was

always supposed to be under the influence of a good

spirit or genius, who gave to him powers which he

always used for the best and most benevolent pur

pos"esO. 'DSopneoagkhtuoehimfollyoowuerdselhfeor nadthviisces,ubajnedct.t'ook the

first opportunity that occurred of mentioning what
he had heard to Sweno. ` Common rumour,' said

Sweno, smiling, ` is in this instance, a very rare one,
correct. The elements are under the power of pecu

liar spiritual essences or beings, who are capable by

particular rites and ceremonies of being influenced

by, and made subservient to, the destinies of man.

voL. 11.  Y

3%  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

IIn my early youth    was acquainted with a Lapland
Iseer, in whose cell
                      passed many nights of severe

Iand terrible discipline; and with hard study and vigils,

and severe penance, obtained knowledge which ren

ders me far superior to other men ; but this knowledge,

I Iwhich so hardly gained, can easily communicate.
I can impart it only to one person; and to him, if

properly applied, it will be a source of blessing and

of happiness. It makes its possessor invincible, and

may consequently be used for unworthy purposes
of conquest or ambition; yet such is its nature that

if once misapplied it is lost for ever. The genius of

the elements, who serves me, will only be obedient to

goo"d.O' 'Donoghue was very much astonished by this
confession of Sweno ; and urged him by arguments

derived from the friendship which he bore him, the
confidence which he reposed in him, and their re

lationship by marriage, to make him the partaker of

that knowledge which bestowed so much power.

   " Sweno did not seem at first to favour O'Do
noghue's wishes ; spoke of the greatness of the boon

he demanded, which, when given, could not be taken
away, and seemed to require some compensation for

conferring so great a benefit.
   " O'Donoghue was profuse in his offers of reward

to Sweno,--proposed to divide his kingdom with him,
or to establish Limeric in a separate principality for
him ; in short, to do what he desired. Sweno's

consent appeared won by his importunity; and he

I Isaid to O'Donoghue, ` select you, because love
Iyou, to be a partner in the power which now pos

sess alone, and to give you means of commanding for
the rest of your life a prosperity and glory belonging

to no other mortal. Meet me at midnight in the

                       srn HUMPHRY navy.                8%

island of Mucrish, but come unattended; you will

find me sitting on a rock, at the small lake surrounded
by willows, which is exactly in `the centre of the

island.'

   "O'Donoghue did not fail` to keep this appointment.
Taking one of the smallest boats used for his aquatic

amusements, he quietly rowed to the island. It was

a beautiful night, calm and serene; but the only light
was that of the stars. O'Donoghue, who had never

visited this island at such a time, had some difliculty

in finding the spot indicated by Sweno; but as he
approached the centre of the island, he saw in the

distance a red and glimmering flame, which he made

the guide of his way. When l1e came near                it,he
                                                            it
found was fire made with some dry wood, ar
a                                                                         .

     it

             a
                    a
ranged in circular order; and he saw Sweno sitting
on rock in the centre of his fair countenance and
                       if

                           it,

                                       `
                                                     `
bright hair lighted up by the reflection of the red

light from the glowing embers. Come not near to

me, O'Donoghue,' exclaimed Sweno; the spirits of

the elements command within this circle, and you

would be torn to pieces you attempted to pass the

boundary of fire without possessing that mysterious

power which  it        my intention to bestow upon you,

                  is

and the moment for doing this not yet arrived;
                       a
will                                  is
   "  be announced by      signal from heaven.'
      The appearance   of   Sweno was so strange        and

wild, and there was in his countenance so much of a

supernatural character, that O'Donoghue could not

behold him without experiencing certain sensation
                                          a

of fear; and he involuntarily turned his eyes from
the circle of fire towards heaven, and fixed them upon

Jupiter, the evening star, then shining with great

brightness above his head.

                           Y  Q

324 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

   " After a few minutes, soft music was heard in the

air above; it was followed by a loud shout, like the
sounds of exultation ; a light flashed from the centre
of the sky, and fell upon the spot where Sweno sat,

who appeared now to O'Donoghue, surrounded by a

Iblaze of white light, and the fire was extinguished.

` have received permission,' Sweno said, `from

the spirits of the elements to share my power with

you; approach now, and give me your hand.'

O'Donoghue trembled as he approached the won

derful light with which Sweno was surrounded,

yet he slowly advanced towards him ; and when he

had entered the luminous atmosphere, he felt an
agreeable glow, and found his spirits immediately

restored. Sweno grasped him by the hand,`and his
touch was like that of burning metal. ` Follow

me,' said Sweno; `your initiation shall be completed.'
He walked a few steps to the brink of the small lake,

carrying with him his atmosphere of light; he

a

            it,
walked round and its waters became luminous as

he made his circuit; he stopped, held up his hand,

and in powerful and awful voice exclaimed, `Spirits

of the Elements! this man  desirous of know
                           is

                                        `
ing and sharing your power: I.commit to you his
destinies.' To O'Donoghue he said, You have no

thing now to do but to plunge into the lake,----youa

will come out as if new being, filled with wisdom,

and with that strength which will subdue all things`

to your purposes. Lose no time.'
   " O'Donoghue rushed forward,` and precipitated

himself headlong through the luminous atmosphere
into the water; After this, he was wholly insen`sible`
for many hours; and when he had recovered from the
trance into which he had fallen,he found himself

sm HUMPHRY navy.  325

cold, wet, and shivering, lying on the shore of the
lake; and his limbs felt as ice, though the sun was

risen, and shone upon him in all its brightness. Sweno
had disappeared. He attempted to walk towards his
boat, but his limbs failed him. He looked into the

calm and clear water, and what was his astonishment

and `horror, when he beheld the reflection of his

lineaments! they were entirely changed. But he had
gained no supernatural strength, no wonderfiil power:
his limbs were shrivelled, his black hair was become

silvery grey, and his youthful face was changed to
one of a decrepit and palsied old man. He with
difliculty made his way to the boat, and with greater
difiiculty pushed from the island, and again crossed
the lake. He was immediately accosted by the keeper

of the barges, who was about to chastise him for his
effrontery in making use of one of the royal boats.

It was in vain that he declared he was the master of

the boats, and the king himself. The keeper con

sidered him as a madman ; and he owed his safety to
the superstition so common in a rude age, which

considers madmen as sacred, and the favourites of
Heaven. He made his way to Ross Castle, and asked

to see the queen; but he was refused admittance, and
driven from the door by the servants. The only
being who seemed to acknowledge him, and on whom

the enchantment appeared to have no power, was his

old and faithful wolf-hound Bran; he fawned upon

his master, licked his hands, appeared as if sensible

of his condition, and followed him as he departed with
                                                                                                                                `

a heavy heart from his own door.

    " The half-civilised Irish were at this time in a
very peculiar state as to religion. The opinions of
the Druids, who had long been the national priests,

                                          Y3

      MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

were mixed with superstitions derived from the Scan

dinavian people; and the ministers of Hesus (the
chief god of the Druids), who usually performed the
rites of religion, combining the triple character of

priest, prophet, and enchanter, were generally con

sidered as possessed of supernatural powers. St. Pa
trick had just landed in the north of Ireland; but

Christianity had only been heard of in Kerry.

O'Donoghue, in his early youth, had been accus

tomed to perform his devotions at one of the crom

lechs or druidical high altars, which stood on the top

of Morgarton; but since his Norwegian alliance

and his acquaintance wtih Sweno, he had neglected

his religious duties: now they recurred to his mind

as a resource in his misery, and he hoped something

from the power and counsels of the Druid whom he

had   so long neglected.  to  the  sacred  wood,  where  he
      He made his way
   "

found the Arch Druid sitting beneath the sacred

Imisletoe. As O'Donoghue approached he rose, and

said, ` King of Kerry, know you; you have neglected

the gods of your fathers and the friends of your youth,

and have fallen into the power of Hela. Prostrate

yourself before the altar: you may yet be preserved,
and restored to your kingdom; but it can only be by

following exactly my counsels.' O'Donoghue offered

up a most fervent prayer to the neglected divinity.

The Arch Druid having sacrificed a lamb, and prayed

for expiation of the king's offence, retired to the

secret or oracular part of the cromlech, where he re

mained some time, as if in communion with an un

known power. `He then came forward, and said to

O'Donoghue, ` Sweno is powerful, Hela is powerful;

but Hesus is omnipotent. The enchantment which

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  `3%7

thou hast suffered can be destroyed only in one way.

Attend carefully to my advice, and pursue it with the

utmost caution. Sweno has long been in love with

your wife; hitherto she has resisted his addresses;

but now, believing that you are dead, she is disposed

to yield to him her person and her heart. By his en
chantments he has gained the affections of your

nobles, and they are prepared to proclaim him king

of Kerry. In a few days he is to be married to

Bertha, and crowned in your vacant throne. You
must go to Ross Castle; you must seek him when
asleep, and you will see in his bosom a dagger en
graved with curious Runic characters; you must take

this dagger, leave him asleep, and repair immediately

to the same lake in which you received your trans
formation. You must throw the dagger into the
middle of the lake, saying, ` Powers of darkness, take
your victim! God of my Fathers, restore thy servant
to his former state 1' The enchantment will then be

over; Sweno will disappear, crossing the lake on his
fiery courser; the hearts of your courtiers will be
changed, the affections of the queen restored to you,
and you will be again the powerful and happy
O'Donoghue. But beware of offering any violence
to the person of Sweno: should you do this, your en
chantment will continue for ever. He will fly over
the lake, but it will be only to return to Ross Castle,

Iand your existence will be spent in the vain pursuit

of the phantom knight.' -- ` will follow,' said

O'Donoghue, ` strictly all your counsels; but how is
it possible for me, in my present miserable state, to

gain admittance to the apartments of my palace ?' --

I I` was prepared for this,' said the Arch Druid; `

place on your brows this wreath of misletoe, cut with

                                          Y 4'

828 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

a golden sickle fiom the sacred oak; wearing it you
will enter the palace, unmolested, at any time and
hour you please ; and Bran, your faithful wolf-hound,

will be your guide to the chamber where your bit
                   fell wolf of Norway, sleeps.'
terest enemy, the  after thanking the Arch Druid,  and

   " O'Donoghue,

again offering up his devotions, hastened by the near

est road across the mountains to Ross Castle. He

entered the apartments crowded with servants, pre

paring for a grand festival, without exciting the least
attention. He sat down in one of the halls, where

they were decking a magnificent table for an enter

tainment which was to take place on the morrow, till
the crowd began to diminish ; and he could not re

frain from the most melancholy reflections when he

saw so. many persons, his dependants, and some of

them his relations, who had been under great obli

gations to him, so soon forgetting their king and their

master, and worshipping a new idol. He contrasted

the gratitude and memory of mankind with the affec
tionate feeling of the dog that lay couched at his feet,

attached to his fallen and almost helpless master. He

heard with impatience the watchbell strike the hours,
till midnight arrived, when Bran gave the signal for

action by a low whine.
   " The dog rose, and with slow and steady steps

tracked his way through a suite of apartments, till they

came to the bed-chamber where Sweno lay asleep.

A lamp which was burning near the bed showed

O'Donoghue the countenance of the knight, and it

appeared ferocious and malignant, different fiom what
it had ever seemed to him in his waking hours: so

true is it that sleep developes the natural character of

the countenance, and destroys the effects of art.

                       sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                    829

" O'Donoghue tranquilly withdrew the vest from

Sweno's bosom, --saw the dagger, which he grasped

with the greatest ardour; but, in lifting it up, he

perceived a small chain beneath, which arrested his
curiosity. He saw that it was made of hair, and that
something was suspended to it. He raised the hair
link, and recognised, with the utmost anguish, the

hair of Bertha, and that the jewel suspended to it was

one she had always worn in her own bosom. He

could not doubt but that this was a pledge of her

love. Jealousy of a most furious kind instantly
took possession of him; his passion was irresistible;

he raised the dagger, and exclaiming ` Die, traitor!'

plu"ngAedcliatpinotof  the bosom of the   knight.     the  apart
                       thunder instantly  broke over

ment; the room was filled with a blaze of light; the

knight uttered loud shrieks, and fled through the open

doors, and O'Donoghuef'ollowed him in pursuit, the

dagger still in his hand. At the gate of the castle

Sweno, bleeding and still shrieking, sprang upon his

war-horse, which was standing to receive him, and
fled across the lake, leaving marks of fire where his

courser's feet struck the water. O'Donoghue con
tinued in vain pursuit; the menials were roused by
the uproar of the elements, and saw the phantoms by

the lightning which incessantly flashed from the
heavens. The howlings of the faithful Bran awakened

the queen, but she was awakened only to misery; her

lover had disappeared, but his couch was stained with
his blood. O'Donoghue was heard of no more as a

living man.                               .
" St. Patrick soon after made his appearance at

Killarney, and converted Bertha to Christianity. She

became the foundress of the first monastic establish

330 MEMOIRS oF THE LIFE oF

ment for females in Ireland, and lived a life of great
sanctity. Her shrine is still visited by pilgrims from
all parts of Europe. The spectre king and the
phantom knight are still believed to haunt .Killarney;
and there is scarcely a peasant who will not assure
you that he has seen the king, armed with a dagger,
pursuingthe white knight on his fiery war-horse across
that beautiful and romantic scene."

I`   IThis story he finished, believe, at Laybach, where
 he
     arrived  on  the 30th  of August,       and fiom  whence

   received from him the following letter :

     " MY DEAR Jonn,                         " Laybach, Sept.25. 1828.

  I" have just received your letter of the 25th July,
Iwhich have read with much satisfaction; it has

removed some anxiety which a former letter had

Igiven me respecting the state of your health. Your

pursuits, know, when you are well, will be both

useful and interesting, and connected with the im

provement of your profession and the advancement of

Igeneral science.

   " am much obliged to you for the hints you give

Ime respecting the causes of the migration of birds;

and think the principle will apply generally to that
of animals. The instinct or strong feeling which leads

to these migrations  I iIs, believe, generally connected

with want of food; but have no doubt may be
                                             I it
excited by other causes, which are ultimately related

to the same want. Thus, in this province, the quails

have already disappeared, though the grain on which

they feed still abundant in the fields; and believe
                  is
                                          a
they were driven away by storm, which covered the

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                      331

mountains with snow, and was to them the omen of
Ithe approach of the Alpine winter.  doubt if the

same causes which influence the health of man have

much effect upon that of animals, who live according

to natural laws, and not arbitrary customs, and whose

lives and conduct, when they have not been domes

ticated, are under the influence of strong and inva

riable instincts. The insect which you call a cater

pillar, that you found in the stomach of the double

Isnipe, have no doubt was a hexapode larva of a
Itibula, which have always found, both in the spring

Iand autumn, in the stomachs of these birds, and

which have no doubt constitute their favourite, if
Inot their only food.
                       am glad you have so agreeable

a society at Malta, and that you have health to enjoy `

it. Pray remember me in a particular manner to your

new admiral*, and put him in mind of some very

pleasant days we passed together at the Duke of

Athol's, where his pursuit was hart shooting, and

mine grouse shooting.

  I" will not enter into a detail of my nervous infir
I Imities. endeavour, as much as can, to forget them.
IIt is now six weeks since have closed my seton, and
I I Ithink am better for it.
                              have much the same
I Ihopes as had when was here before in May, 1827,

I Iand from the same causes. You will recollect the
letter wrote to you at that time.    hardly know

what my future plans will be. They must depend a
Igood deal on a letter which am now expecting fi*om
IfLady Davy.
              you do not hear from me again

within the next fortnight, write to me at Rome.

" Vice-Admiral Sir Pulteney Malcolm.

33Q MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

IWhether shall be there` or no is very uncertain.

At all events, I take the chance. God bless you, my

dear John.
              " Your affectionate Friend and Brother.

I I" You will have seen ` Salmonia' by this time.
  have made the second edition twice as large, and
hope twice as amusing. It contains many of my
Iphilosophical views, and some new and hope true
Iopinions in natural history.
                               send the copy for the

second edition to Murray by the next opportunity."

   From Laybach, on the 6th of October, he went to
Trieste, expressly for the purpose of trying the expe

riments he had been long meditating on the electricity

of the torpedo. The results of some former trials

made in 1814 and 1815 had created doubts in his

mind, that the power which this fish exercises in

giving shocks is identical with any known form or

variety of electricity. It occurred to him that it

might be a new species of electricity, as different from
common electricity as that is from voltaic,. or as
voltaic electricity is from magnetism. The results he
had hitherto obtained were negative, and so far in
favour of this idea. He now wished to subject it to
a new test, the magnetic, which he conceived would

be decisive.

   On the evening of the 8th he arrived atTrieste ; and

the following day, having through the kind assistance
of our consul, George During, Esq., procured two

lively and recently caught torpedos, he instituted his
experiments, the results of which were still negative,
the shock of the fish transmitted through a very de

                sm HUMPHRY DAVY. .             333

licate galvanometer not indicating the slightest mag

netic effect.*

On his return to Laybach he communicated his

views on the subject, and the results of his experi

Iments, to the Royal Society, in a paper, which was
his last contribution.  shall insert the remarks with

which he concludes ;--the apprehension expressed in

them respecting himself was but too true.

Having given his opinion that animal electricity

will be found of a distinctive and peculiar kind,
he continues: --
                               `
                        .

" Common electricity is excited upon non-con

ductors, and is readily carried off by conductors and

imperfect conductors.
   " Voltaic electricity is excited upon combinations

of perfect and imperfect conductors, and is only trans

mitted by perfect conductors or imperfect conduc

tors of the same kind.

  " Magnetism, if it be a form of electricity, belongs

only to perfect conductors and in its modifications to
a particular class of them;

   " The animal electricity resides only in the imper

fect conductors forming the organs of living animals,

and its object in the economy of nature is to act on

living animals.
   " Distinctions might be established in pursuing

the various modifications or properties of electricity,

in these different forms; but it is scarcely possible to
avoid being struck by another relation of this subject.

The torpedinal organ depends for its powersupon
the will of the animal. John Hunter has shown how

I* Owing,  believe, to the human body having been .made part of

the circle.--Vide Phil. Trans. 1834. Part 2d.

334 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Icopiously it is furnished" with nerves.  have never,

in examining the columnar structure of the organ in
the torpedo, been able to discover arrangements of

different conductors similar to those in galvanic

combinations; and it seems not improbable that the

shock depends upon some property developed by the

action of the nerves.
   " To attempt to reason upon any phenomena of

this kind, as depending upon a specific fluid, would

be wholly vain. Little as we know of electrical action,

we are still more ignorant ofthe nature of the functions

of the nerves. There seems, however, a gleam of light

worth pursuing in the peculiarities of animal electri
city, -- its connection with so large a nervous system,

its dependence upon the will of the animal, and the
instantaneous nature of its transfer,--which may lead,

when pursued by adequate inquirers, to results im

Iportant for physiology.                fear, prevent

   " The weak state of my health will,

Ime from following this subject with the attention it

seems to deserve, and communicate these imper

fect trials to the Royal Society, in the hopes that

they may lead to more extensive and profound re

searches."*                                                               .

On the 81 st October he quitted Laybach to pro

ceed to Rome, where he arrived on the 18th of

INovember. During the next two months and a half
   received from him the following letters: --

  ' IThe results of the experiments which have made on the electri

city of the torpedo are not, on the whole, favourable to the idea enter
tained by my brother; namely, that its electricity is peculiar, at least
judging of it by its effects. How it is produced, however, is still a
mystery, though not more so than the light of the glow-worm or fire
fly.--Vide my paper already referred to on the subject.

            srn numrnav DAVY.   335

                                                          " Rome, Nov. 23. 182 8.

       " MY DEAR Jonn,

  I" have been much disappointed in finding no
Iletters from you on my arrival here. Yet wrote

two letters from Austria and Illyria through the same

channel, Trieste, by which you had before received
Ithem.
            expected letters both at Bologna and here.
I shall expedite this letter by the mail which goes to
ICorfu, and hope you will receive it in a shorter
Itime than by Marseilles.
                           shall say little about my
Iself; except that the greatest pleasure could receive
Iwould be from seeing you.  think I am better, but
I have been exceedingly annoyed by the conduct of
            '* "= * *
a servant,
I Iand fear shall have the whole trouble of dismiss

ing my establishment, and forming a new one, unless

I can find some charitable persons here to assist me.
  I" Morichini is extremely kind to me, and thinks

shall get well. The weakness and numbness in my

Ileft leg and hand still continue, but think are less.
IIn short, with perfect quiet, which came abroad to
I Iseek, think should be comfortable.
*'I= 1=
                            ##  #

  I" The weather is beautiful. Days of bright sun

shine, but no cold nor heat. take exercise, and shoot

Ias much as can; but there is little to shoot now. The
ICampagna is too dry for snipes, and cannot beat
Ithe woods for cocks; so content myself with a few

Iquails.

   " got at Trieste a fine active torpedo, and satis

fied myself that the shock did not affect the magnet.
Is it a new kind of electricity, developed by the

          MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

Inerves?  have sent a paper. on the subject to the

Royal Society.

#         #     =l=        #         #       is

" God bless you, my dear John ! .
       " Your affectionate Friend and Brother,

                                        " H. DAVY."

" MY DEAR Jonu,                      " Rome, Dec. 21. 1828.

I" have just received your letter, which has given
IIme much pleasure.
                     continue much as when

wrote to you last. My limbs continue weak; my
Idigestive functions think improved, and my tongue
Ihas almost lost its fur.
                           had hoped you might have
Ipaid me a visit; now despair of this here; yet, per

haps, in the spring you could come to me at Trieste,
Iand see me in Illyria.    would then show you my
Ikind little nurse, to whom owe most of the little
I Ihappiness have enjoyed since my illness.
                                             shoot

here a little, mount my ponies, and employ myself a

Igood deal in literary pursuit. I have finished the

Dialogues, and with one of them am exceedingly

Ipleased. You will find the second edition of ` Sal

monia' quite a new work, and hope far better than

the first. Walter Scott has written a review of the

Ifirst edition, which am told is exceedingly lauda

Itory".""Poor Dr. Wollaston has an attack of paralysis,

and am sorry to hear is without hopes. His severe
and ascetic life has not preserved him. This com

plaint is certainly becoming more common in Eng

                * Quarterly Review.

         sm HUMPIIRY DAVY.                     837

Iland.   have heard of two or three other friends who
have likewise suffered, -- spare, abstemious men ;

James Macdonald is one of them.
I I I" believe told you had closed all my drains,
Isetons, and blisters. It is now four months.
                                               have
Icertainly not been worse, and have lived rather
Imore freely; but in every respect have continued

extremely temperate.             .
I I" told you of my experiments on the torpedo.

am making some here, comparing the force with that

of the common electricity. We have very fine wea
ther, but bad shooting, from the want of water. Write

to me as often as you can ; and believe me to be,

                       " My dear John,
       " Your most affectionate Friend and Brother,

                                                          " H. DAVY.

   " Monsignor Spada is my chief companion here.
That most amiable man desires to be kindly remem

Ibered to you. The Guiccioli is likewise here ; but

have not seen her yet. Morichini and the professors
of the Sapienza do all they can to assist me in my

electrical experiments."

" MY DEAR Jorm,                  " Rome, Jan. 30. 1829.

I" have been long hoping and expecting to hear
Ifrom you in vain.
                      have received but one letter
Ifrom you since have been here. Since the last

Imonth the weather has been very bad,--rain, and si

rocco; and have suffered more, both in my limbs

and stomach, than at any time since my illness. The

pain and palpitation in the region of the heart has

I Iincreased almost alarmingly, and do not think

voL. n.               z

388 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ihave gained any strength in the weak limbs. This

is all notwithstanding diet and discipline, and sus

I Ipect mine is a desperate stomach case.
" have finished jbur dialogues.                                  question whe

I

                  a
                                                                                          is,
ther they are poetical or philosophical. The last*

think, fair statement of the hopes which may be

founded on metaphysical considerations of the inde

structibility of the sentient principle; but, after all,

we merely confess our ignorance. The second edi

tion of Salmonia,' quite new work, sent to the
I

   I`

                   it

                                               a

                                                            is
press.    think will amuse you. It has amused me

much.

   " have been making new researches on the tor

`I `pedo.     =3                                   # # l=

" suspect the use of their electrical organs not
        I
at all understood.I believe                        connected with their

               aI I

                    II

                                           it

                                                          is

                                      ;I
                                           ` iIf

                                                      I is
digestion. Pray write to me as soon as you receive

this letter.        shall go north in the beginning of

March.              shall        live  to `go      back          to  Laybach.

       #                    'll                                                  *
              ihope
               Q
" Should die before, you will, think, find my

Dialogues in state for publication                                   live, shall

Ifmake  them more perfect.       this              letter  till  March,  write
         you do not receive
   "

to me at Laybach; but hope shall hear before
that have chance of seeing you.

   " The Vice-Legate often comes to see me, and
        I

                        a

                            I
                                    I

often asks for you.                                !
   " God bless you, my dear John
                                                                 " H. Davr.

        " You will have heard of poor Wollaston's death.

       " The Proteus, or Immortality               the 4th dialogue in " Consola
tions in Travel."
*
                                               ;"

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                                   339

He lived to communicate his process for platina to
the Royal Society. This was his last work, which he
considered a duty. "

   On the 1st of February, two       hdiasysjouornnlyal,af--ter "  this
letter was written, he writes in
                                                                   Fi

nished the dialogues fifth and sixth," which were
the whole number in the " Consolations in Travel."

And immediately after he adds, in Italian,--" Si

moro, spero che ho fatto il mio dovere, e che mia

vita, non e stato vano ed inutile."

   On the 6th of February he addressed the following

letter to Mr. Poole ; and it was his last to him : --

" MY DEAR PooLE,                 `

                                     T
I" have not written to you during my absence
Ifrom England, because had no satisfactory account
of any marked progress towards health to give you,

Iand the feelings of an invalid are painful enough for

himself, and should, think, never form a part of his

correspondence ; for they are not diminished by the

Iconviction that they are felt by others. Would
Iwere better ! would then write to you an agreeable
Iletter from this glorious city ; but am here wearing
Iaway the winter,--a ruin amongst ruins ! am anxious

to hear from you, --very anxious; so pray write
to me with this address, ` Sir H. Davy, Inglese,

posta restante Rovigo, Italia.' You know you must

pay the postage to the frontier; otherwise the letters,

like one a friend sent to me, will go back to you.

IPray be so good as to be particular in the direction ;
the Inglese is necessary.      hope you got a copy of
Imy little trifle, ` Salmonia.'
                                    ordered copies to be

sent to you, to Mr. W., and to Mr. Baker ; but as the

                           z2

34-0 ' ' MEMOIRS or TIIE LIFE OF

Icourse of letters in foreign countries is uncertain,

am not sure you received them; if not, you will have

lost little: a second edition will soon be out, which

will be in every respect more worthy of your perusal,
Ibeing, think, twice (not saying much for it) as en
Itertaining and philosophical.  will take care, by
Iearly orders, that you have this book.
                                         write and

Iphilosophise a good deal, and have nearly finished a

work with a higher aim than the little book speak

Iof above, which shall dedicate to you. It contains

the essence of my philosophical opinions, and some

of my poetical reveries. It is like the ` Salmonia,'

Ian amusement of my sickness; but ` paulo majora

canamus.' sometimes think of the lines of Waller,
and seem to feel their truth --

" The soul's dark cottage, batter'd and decay'd,
   Lets in new lights through chinks that Time has made."

I" have, notwithstanding my infirmities, attended to

Iscientific objects whenever it was in my power; and
  have sent the Royal Society a paper, which they

will publish, on the peculiar electricity of the torpedo,

Iwhich, think, bears remotely upon the functions of
I Ilife. attend a good deal to natural history; and
Ithink have recognised in the Mediterranean a new

Ispecies of eel, a sort of link between the conger and
the muroena of the ancients.*   have no doubt Mr.

   I* Relative to this supposed new species of eel, have not been able
Ito find any observations in his note-books. It was probably a brown

muroena, which believe to be the myrus of Aristotle, and which in
Malta is considered, as of old by Aristotle, the male of the common
muroena (the muroena of the ancients ; M. helena, Lin.) VVhether this

Iis a distinct species, or merely a variety of the muroena helena, have
Inot yet been able to satisfy myself, though have ascertained beyond

doubt that the Maltese notion of its sex is not correct, having found in

onespecimen well developed ova.

sm HUMPHRY DAVY. `                            341

Baker `is right about the distinction between the

conger and the common eel. Iam very anxious to

hear what he thinks about their generation. Pray

Iget from him a distinct opinion on this subject.
   am at this moment getting the eels in the market

here dissected, and have found ova in plenty. Pray
tell me particularly what Mr. Baker has done; this

Iis a favourite subject with me, and you can give me
no news so interesting. My dear friend,       shall

never`forget your kindness to me. You, with one

Iother person, have given me the little happiness

have enjoyed since my severe visitation.

  I I" fight against sickness and fate, believing

have still duties to perform, and that even my illness

Iis connected in some way with my being made useful
to my fellow-creatures.  have this conviction full

on my mind, that intellectual beings spring from the

same breath of Infinite Intelligence, and return to it

again, but by different courses. Like rivers born
amidst the clouds of heaven, and lost in the deep and
eternal ocean, -- some in youth, rapid and short-lived

torrents; some in manhood, powerful and copious

rivers; and some in age, by a winding and slow

course, half lost in their career, and making their
Iexit by many sandy and shallow mouths.
Ibe at Rovigo about the first week in April.hope to

Ifslowly, and with my own horses.             travel

                                   you will come
Iand join me there, can give you a place in a com-.
fortable carriage, and can show you the most glorious

country in Europe, --Illyria and Styria; and take

you to the French frontier before the beginning of
Ifautumn, --perhaps to England.
Ido so at once.                  you can come,

                 have two servants, and can accom
modate you with every thing. I think of taking

                         z3

342 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

IIsome baths before return into Upper Austria; but

I Iwrite as if were a strong man, when am like a

pendulum, as it were, swinging between death and
life.

   " God bless you, my dear Poole !
              " Your grateful and affectionate Friend,
                                                       " H. DAVY.

    " Pray remember me to our friends at Stowey."

   From this time till the 20th his state of health

continued variable; and he continued (as appears
from his journal) to have occupied himself vari

ously, --in shooting, in examining the structure of

the torpedo, in electrical experiments, in sketching
the characters of distinguished men his contempora
ries, and in making additions both to Salmonia and

his new Dialogues.`

*= About this time, or shortly after, during his illness, he expressed

his views respecting the British Museum, pointing out some of its

deficiencies, and suggestingaplan for its improvement. He had thought

much on the subject, having been well acquainted with the establish
Iment in his capacity of trustee, as President of the Royal Society; on
which account  think it right to give his sentiments, as they were

written down from his dictation, with the hope that some of his hints

may be followed, to the benefit of the museum.
   The subject is introduced incidentally, in noticing the collections of
the objects of natural history in America, in connection with science
in America and her men of science, in digression from the character of
the late Dr. Woodhouse, who brought a letter of introduction to my

Ibrother in 1804 from the venerable Priestley : --
    "` believe no country can be placed lower than our own in respect

to collections in ancient art or modern science. A few liberal-minded

patriotic men have done much by their private collections; and some

particular institutions or colleges, by their private means, have afforded

resources to scientific men ; but our national establishment, the British
Museum, is unworthy of a great people, and is even inferior to many of

those belonging to second-rate states on the Continent: yet there have

been considerable sums of money devoted to the objects of this collec

                   srn HUMPHRY DAVY.                                        343

   On the 20th, most unexpectedly, for there had

been no premonitory symptoms, and quite suddenly,

tion, and it contains some choice marbles, and some interesting speci

mens in natural history; and far more might have been done with the
sums voted for the purpose by parliament, had they been judiciously

app"lieWd.hen the British Museum was first established, in consequence of
the bequest of Sir H-ans Sloane, President of the Royal Society, of his

splendid collections to the country, the trustees were either great oflicers
of state, owing their situation to their office, or some persons of science,
art, and letters associated with them, elected by the principal trustees.

At first, the leading trustees of the elected class were either distinguished

members of the Royal Society, or highly accomplished noblemen and
gentlemen, possessed of refined knowledge in art or profound knowledge
in science. The last scientific trustee elected was Mr. Henry Cavendish.
Lately the elections have been almost entirely made from branches of
the aristocracy, or gentlemen of some parliamentary influence. The
Archbishop of Canterbury, the Lord Chancellor, and the Speaker of the
House of Commons are considered as the really active members of the
trust; and overpowered, as those great ofiicers must be, with the reli
gious, legal, and legislative affairs of the country, it cannot be supposed

that they can have much leisure or much opportunity to attend to the

gov"erAnmlletnhte  or arrangement    of the national  collections.  either  eflicient
                    officers of the   museum, who     ought to be

librarians or curators of the house, used to be elected in turns by the

Archbishop of Canterbury and the Speaker of the House of Commons ;

for the late Chancellor, Lord Eldon, always refused to act as trustee,

considering, probably, with great propriety, that he had other duties

more essential to his oflice to perform. It is not, therefore, to be

wondered at, that amongst the curators, assistant librarians, and sub

librarians, there should be found many persons taken from the inferior

departments of the church and of the public ofiices ; places abounding
with respectable, well-educated men, but not the natural serninaries of

either naturalists or of persons of profound and refined taste in antiqui

ties, collections of the works of art, and monuments of the genius of the

Ifgre"atpeople of antiquity.         distinction  as to scientific  character had
           men of the highest

always occupied the most exalted oflices in the museum, either as cura

tors of the collections, or as zoologists, ornithologists, entomologists,

mineralogists, botanists, and superintendants of the ancient collections of

sculpture and painting; and if the salaries of such oflicers had been
made respectable, and their rank agratifying or enviable one, -- there

would have been always a suflicient uumber of aspirants after such

situations, and we should not have required the assistance of foreigners

in that establishment which ought to be the natural school of our acade

mies in science and art. But, unfortunately, in England science is not

                                     Z4~

LIFEOFor84<4 MEMOIRS or THE LIFEMOFEMOIRS
                                    THE

he had that severe attack which ultimately proved
fatal. That morning (as he told me afterwards) he
felt better than usual,--his pulse about 68°; the
tongue clean; the ordinary functions of the body

the taste either of the court or of the government ; and what might be
the most magnificent collection of the beauties and wonders of nature

and art, formed from every quarter of the globe, and containing the

most splendid monuments of the glory of the most powerful of the

ancient nations of the earth, does, in fact, represent little more than a

series of quaint collections in vertu, where illustrations of the history of
medals and the most exquisite specimens of the bronzes of Magna
Graacia are found in the same room with the sledges and dresses of the

Esquimaux, the canoes, arms, and dresses of the people of Australasia,

and the wildest ornaments invented either by the capricious or diseased

fashions of folly in almost every climate and age. Even the first and

most perfect part of the marbles brought from Athens to enrich the

hot"el  of Montague House, are out of   place.     in  every  thing  belonging
        There must be a general system  of change

to this institution, before there can be any system of radical improve

ment. Each department must be preserved separate and distinct from

the other. The sculpture must be judged by men who have shown

their knowledge of taste with regard to this branch of the fine arts.

The collection and arrangement of paintings must be trusted either to

artists themselves, or to refined judges of the art. The geologist should

have his department entirely to himself; and the mineralogist would

not find even the present treasures of the British Museum too extensive

for much active labour, philosophical research, and even useful discovery
in the variety of their arrangements and bearings; and a good geolo

gist, by connecting the history of the specimens of inorganic nature with

those of living animals, might open to the world a number of curious

and very extraordinary truths. Then the libraries should be kept perfectly

distinct from the other parts of the museum; and there should be at

least four enlightened and literary men of ability, to take charge of these

treasures, now made so magnificent by the royal gift, and to lay them

ope"n   to  the public.  me  that  the present is the best moment  for attempt
            appears to
        It

Iing a radical and fundamental change in every thing belonging to this
ancient, misapplied, and,          may almost say, useless institution. In

every part of the metropolis people are crying out for knowledge ; they

are searching for her even in corners and bye-ways ; and such is their

desire for her,  that they are disposed to  seize her by  illegitimate means,
                  obtain her by fair and    just ones.
if they cannot                                            This, then, isthe

moment to give energy to their efforts, and for the legislature to sanction

what reason has so long required."

sm HUMPHRY DAVY. .                             845

well performed. After breakfast he had sate some            `

time, dictating an addition to the sixth Dialogue:
when he had finished it he attempted to rise to go

into his bed-room, which was adjoining; `but found

that he could not stand, and that he had lost all
power over his limbs, without pain of head, or vertigo,
or loss of power of intellect, accompanied merely by
afeeling of sickness of stomach. Medical aidwas

immediately had; leeches were applied to the tem

ples, as if the brain had been affected ; and a lower

ing (or, as it is called, antiphlogistic) plan oftreatment
was pursued, but with no good effect. He spent the

night very restlessly, and the following morning the

right side was quite powerless, and the stomach much

deranged. On the 23d he dictated the following let
ter to me ; it is very descriptive of his state, and of

the tone and powers of his mind : --

      " MY DEAR JOHN,

  I" Notwithstanding all my care and discipline, and

ascetic living, am dying from a severe attack of

Ipalsy, which has seized the whole of the body, with
the exception of the intellectual organ.    am under

the usual severe discipline of bleeding and blistering;

but the weakness increases, and a few hours or days
Iwill finish my mortal existence. shall leave my bones
I Iin the Eternal City.
bless God that have been
Iable to finish all my philosophical labours.
                                               have

composed six dialogues, and yesterday finished the

last of them. There is one copy in five small

Ivolumes complete; and Mr. Tobin is now making
another copy, in case of accident to that.     hope

846 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

you will have the goodness to see these works pub

lished.

   " The second edition of ` Salmonia' by this time

is,I
                    I

                                                         `
                                                                                 a

                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     `
believe, printed.     have given you, by codicil

to my will, the copyright of these books, and

shall enclose you an order on Murray for the
profits of the first edition of Salmonia.' God bless

you, my dear John! May you be happy and pro

sperous!

           " Your affectionate Friend and Brother,

                                   " H. Dsvx."

It was signed         him; and he added in his own
                    by
                      it
                           is

                                              I
handwriting, only just legible, " Come as quickly as

possible."

On the 25th he dictated another letter, which

shall also give: for  very characteristic of the zeal

with which he pursued science, and his unextinguish

able ardour in the pursuit: --

MY DEAR JOHN,                   .
If" had not had this attack,
                                   was my intention
a                     I

      I                             it

                                 I

                                                 a
to have gone to Fumicina or Civita Vecchia to make

some experiments on the torpedo.                  hope you will

take up this subject, which, both as comparative

anatomist and chemist, you are very capable to elu

cidate. You will see my paper on the torpedo in the

manuscript book, which have left in Mr. Tobin"s

hands. It was my wish to have exposed an unmag

netised needle to the continued shocks of atorpedo in

metallic spiral, making the metallic communication

perfect with both electrical organs. There in my    is

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                     347

Ilittle box an apparatus for this purpose, which hope

you will use. Large living torpedos may be procured

at Fumicina or Civita Vecchia. The shock from a

very small jar will make a needle magnetic, provided

Iit is entirely passed through the metalhc conductors;

but did not find this effect when there was any

interruption by water. There are many things

worth attending to in the two kinds of torpedinal
fishes found here -- the tremula and occhiatella.

IPray do not neglect this subject, which leave to

you as another legacy. God bless you, my dear

brother!          " Your affectionate Friend,

                            H. Davr."

   Beneath he made an attempt to write, and did write,

" My dear John," but no more. His amanuensis
wrote the following postscript, from his dictation : --

I I" have written to you, but fear you have not
Igot the letter.
                  have this moment received your
Iaddress. am dying. Come as quickly as you can.
IYou will not see me alive, am afraid. God bless

you 1"

  IAs he supposed, did not get his first letter in
Itime; indeed, it followed me to Geneva, where
Ifound it on my arrival from Rome, and read it only
Ia few hours before he expired. His second letter

I Iwas so fortunate as to receive in a very short time, and
  was able to leave Malta, where was then stationed

as Physician to the Forces, three or four days after,
through the kindness of Vice-Admiral Sir Pulteney
Malcolm, who allowed me a passage to Naples in his

Tender. The voyage was a tedious one of six days.

3&8 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE or

I landed at Naples on the Mth of March ; at twelve
Io'clock at night set out with the courier, and

arrived at Rome early on the morning of the 16th.

  I shall now, in continuance of my narration, give
Isome account of the time attended him at Rome,

of our journey from Rome to Geneva, and of the ter
mination of his earthly career in that city.

  I shall not attempt to describe my feelings on
Ireceiving the last letter have given, making known

to me so suddenly and unexpectedly the dangerous

illness of a brother who had acted the part of a father

Ito me; whom regarded as a brother, a teacher, and
Imost kind friend, and to whom necessarily owed
Ivery much of what most valued in life. My anxiety
Inaturally increased the nearer came to Rome. In
Ivain sought for fresh letters and additional informa
I Ition at Naples. When entered Rome, knew not

Iwhere to find him; for his address in that city was
not sent.  in vain went from one hotel to another,`

Imaking inquiries, without being able to hear any thing
of him.    fortunately recollected that his friend

IMorichini was a physician, and a resident in Rome.

He was easily found; and presently had a comfort

able message from him, that my brother that morning

was rather better, accompanied with a direction to his

Ilodging ; and in a few minutes was by his bedside.
INever shall forget the manner in which he received

me; the joy that lighted up his pale and emaciated

countenance; his cheerful words and extreme kind

Iness, and his endeavours to soothe a grief which

had not the power of controlling, on finding him so

ill, or rather at hearing him speak as if a dying man

who had only a few hours to live, and who wished to

use every moment of such precious time. With a

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  349

 most cheerful voice, a smile on his countenance, and

 most warm pressure of the hand, he bade me not be

 grieved, but consider the event as a philosopher. He

 expressed his pleasure at seeing me so soon, and in
 having me with him in his last hours, and firmly
 rejected all expectation and hope of recovery. He
 said when he experienced the attack, just as he had

 concluded his Dialogues, he was sure his career was
run; but, though persuaded of this, he had not

Irejected medical aid, and had followed the prescrip

 tions of his physicians. Now had arrived, he was
 contented; and he began immediately to speak of
those things on which he wished to make me ac- .

quainted with his sentiments. A year and a half has

Inow elapsed, and write only from recollection. In
I Ithe notices shall give shall endeavour to be as
Iaccurate as can.

    The subjects which now interested him most were,

the peculiar electrical power and anatomical struc

Iture of the torpedo (the subject of his last letter to

me, which have given), and on which, just before

his attack, he was making observations, and preparing

to make fresh experiments; his last " Dialogues,"
and the second edition of " Salmonia." On these

subjects he spoke fully, especially on the first; and
begged that I` would immediately take up the inquiry,
and go next morning to the fish market and procure
some torpedos, that, with the fish before us, he might

point out what he considered most deserving of

Inotice. When my first agitationhad subsided, and

I Ihad leisure to make inquiries into the exact state of

his disease, took hope; though when expressed
my hopes, he shook his head, and, with an.incre

dulous smile, said it was useless, or something to that

350 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

effect. His symptoms at this moment were not at all

alarming. The intellect was perfectly clear; the

functions were tolerably well performed; the pulse

not very rapid; and he had so far recovered the
powers of the muscles of his limbs that, with some

aid, he could rise, and go into the sitting-room ; and

that day he rose and dined in his room, and made a

Itolerable dinner on some roast chicken and spinach.
   The greater part of the day sat by his bedside,
reading the " Dialogues," stopping occasionally to

discuss particular parts. His mind was wonderfully

cheerful, and tranquil, and clear, and in a very affec

tionate and most amiable disposition, and the expres

sion of his countenance corresponded. He had lost

all the irritable feeling which he was very liable to

before, during his valetudinary state, and which was

sometimes very distressing both to himself and those

around him, and which generally accompanies para

lytic complaints. His manner, his voice, and the ex

pression of his countenance, the sentiments he

expressed, his powers of argument, all gave the idea

that the intellectual organ (to use  his  own   words)    in
the attack had escaped unhurt.            was  diificult  to
                                     It

conceive such power of mind, when the body was

near its dissolution ; medically it seemed incom

patible. At the same time, his own conviction that

he was a dying man, connected with the many pecu

liarities of his complaint, and the tendency there

sometimes is to believe easily what is dreaded as well

as what is wished, almost persuaded me that his con

viction of rapidly approaching death, founded on in

ternal feeling, was true, and that the brilliancy of his
mind was a " lightning before death."

  IOn the following morning procured some tor

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.               351

pedos from the fish market, and began an examin

Iation of this curious fish, which dissected in an ad
Ijoining

reading
room, and   "  was employed    alternately in
to him the     Dialogues," or  when not with

him, as when he wished to repose a little, in carrying

on my dissection, and occasionally showing him the

results, and reading to him my notes of them, ---all

which not only amused, but interested him deeply.
Thus several days passed, his mind continuing much
the same ; he gradually became worse. He declined

the attendance of his physicians, except that of Dr.
Morichini, whom he saw as a friend; he would take

no medicine, except the acetate of morphia, which he

used in large doses (and which had always the tem
porary effect of relieving uneasy sensations, and pro

curing sleep), and aperient medicine, with the intention

Iof counteracting its constipating tendency. He gra

dually grew worse, and especially when had finished
the reading of the " Dialogues," and he had spoken

to me concerning all the subjects on which he wished

to express his sentiments; he appeared now to be

very much without motive for exertion, and consi

dered this the exact and appropriate time for his
death. His appetite failed him; his bowels became

very constipated; there was a distressing dysuria, a

very rapid pulse, profuse perspiration, a wandering

of the mind on awaking from sleep; and during

sleep a very irregular respiration, very slow, and some
times spasmodic. He was at the worst on the 31st

March. On that day his pulse was amazingly rapid,
more than 150 in frequency; and his respirations, at
one time, were only five in the minute. He would

Itake no food, and he believed himself dying, as did

also, and often during the day expected that he would

 8552 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

breathe his last. Yet, even on that day, he now and
then rallied his powers, and his mind recovered its

Idistinctness and clearness, and required amusement.

At his request, read to him about the first half of

 Mr. Moore's " Epicurean." The sad colouring and
melancholy sentiment which pervade that elegant
little work, with the wildness of some parts of the

fiction, and its marvellous subterranean scenery and

incidents, pleased him much. At night he would not

allow me to remain in his room, not even on a couch,

Ias had done before. He was sure he should die

that night. He took leave of me most tenderly,
kissed my cheek, and bade " God bless me!" His
mind was perfectly tranquil, even as much so as on
my arrival, but his symptoms were of a very different
character; and witnessing the sudden changes which

Ihad taken place during the day, believed that now

I Iindeed was about tolose him, and that should
I Inever again hear his voice of kindness. During the

night, when went into his room, had the satisfaction
to hear him breathing; and the reports of his servant,
who had a bed in his room, when he came to me,

Iwere not unfavourable. The following morning, when
   went to him and drew back his curtains, he expressed

great astonishment at being alive. He said he had
gone through the whole process of dying, and that
when he awoke he had difficulty in convincing him
self that he was in his earthly existence, and that he
was under the necessity of making certain experi
ments to satisfy his mind that he was still in the body;

as by raising the hand and intercepting the light,
lifting the bedclothes, closing the eyelids, &c.` He
added, that his being alive was quite miraculous, and
he now began to think his recovery not impossible,

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                      353

and that it might be intended by Divine Providence

that his life should be prolonged for purposes of use
fulness. This change of opinion in regard to the

possibility of his own recovery, gave me at the mo

ment almost the delight that his recovery itself would

I Ihave done, for thought it promised it; and enjoyed,

I suppose, the pleasure in the anticipation, and at least

in the revival of hope, at a time when all hope had

                           sVamIIeI.,dasyo,moefhoawn,ew
Iceased. The election,the                                pope,
          Pius                                           think,
who took the name of
aided in removing his former impressions of impending

Ideath. Now he was very willing to follow any course

of medical treatment that would recommend, and to

be guided in all things by my advice as his physician,

Iand to consider himself my patient. Andwithout

loss of time proposed a plan of treatment, which
was instantly entered upon ; namely, the use of ape

'rient medicine, combined with sulphate ofquinine and

acetate of morphine, and aided by a tolerably nou

rishing diet. From this day he pretty rapidly im

proved; all the distressing symptoms diminished, and

in a few days they had entirely disappeared; and a
change also had taken place in the state of his mind.

Now that he was intent on recovery, he no longer
took the same deep interest in my examination of the

torpedo, as if he looked forward to the time when

he should be able to enter into the investigation

Iactively again; nor did the same kind of reading
altogether interest him.      remember, on the           day of
his revival, proposing to                                " The
                           resume the story of

                               it,
                                                 it

                                                             ;
Epicurean." He objected to and said was too

melancholy. He preferred Shakspeare's plays espe
cially his comedies; and the " Arabian Nights," and
" Humphrey Clinker." He delighted in hearing these

VOL. 11.                   AA

354  .    MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

read; and he was not comfortable unless some one

was with him almost constantly during the day reading

to him. When he had begun to mend a little, and

my hopes were strengthened of his recovery, Lady

Davy arrived from England, and brought him a copy

of the second edition of" Salmonia," which gave him

very great pleasure; and, with his usual ardour, he

began the reading of it immediately. In a few days,
he expressed a desire to go out in the carriage. The

Iweather was delicious during the whole of the month

of April ; spring weather, may say, really, according
to the ideas of our poets; the air balmy; " warmth

without heat, and coolness without cold ;" the ther

mometer seldom above 70°, and rarely below 60° ; the

rains over; the sky clear, of its mildest blue, and the
Campagna green, of the freshest tint; the gardens

and groves bursting into foliage, and the distant

`mountains of that dark blue which is almost peculiar

Ito Italy and Greece when the sky is clear and not
parched.  look back to this time with a very great

pleasure, and shall ever remember these drives in the

neighbourhood of Rome with this feeling. To him

they were particularly agreeable. The soft cool

breeze refreshed him; he liked to expose himself to
it, especially his forehead. The delightful scenery,
the cheerful appearance of the beautiful environs of

Rome at this spring-time, the season of life and hope,

seemed to exercise a restorative power over him,--to

soothe, and please, and give hope. The second day
that we went out he took me to the milky stream of
the little Albula lake, which he has
third dialogue of the " Consolations  described in the
                                      in Travel," that
I might have an opportunity. of seeing its singular
Icharacter; and, whilst left him for this purpose, he

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  855

Igot out of the carriage, and began to practise himself

in walking, and on my return found him sitting on

a stone on the green flowery turf, and enjoying the

Campagna, then most fresh and green, and beautifully
contrasted with the adjoining wooded hills of Tivoli,
and the few massive ruins of ancient buildings, appear
ing here and there above the vast expanse of verdure.

Another day we drove into the Campagna, towards
Albano, to visit the finest of all the approaches to
Rome, where every object which meets the eye is im
pressive, and a relic of former times and the period of

Rome's greatest grandeur,--the colossal tombs by the

road side, and scattered over the plain ; the artificial
inequalities of the surface, and tumuli ; and, most im
pressive of all, the vast aqueducts running parallel

towards the city, their lines broken, and their lofty
arches giving the idea of enormous temples. As was
our custom, we got out at the end of our drive, and

walked a little way on the Campagna for exercise;

and whilst we walked conversed on the subject of

the extraordinary scenery around us,-- so ancient, and
yet the soil of volcanic sand, and still glittering with
minute crystals of volcanic origin, mixed with frag
ments of red brick and pottery, and, owing to its arid

and silicious nature, without calcareous or aluminous
earth, giving to this part of the plain the character

of sterility. But his favourite and our most frequent

drive was on the way to Civita Vecchia, either close
to the Tiber, or at a little distance from the course

of the river, through the beautiful hilly region which
stretches in that direction,-- a succession of gardens,

vineyards and orchards, villas and farm-houses, inter
spersed; the road lined with trim hedge-rows, remind
ing one of England; the orchards in full bloom, and

                                             AA Q

356 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

the vineyards rapidly sprouting and bursting into
leafi under the influence of the warm sun and air. This
part of the environs used to be frequented by him,
when able to amuse himself with his gun; and we
generally stopped at the distance of four or five miles,
where, between the hills, there is a little open green`
plain in pasture, and where a sheltered hollow, rich
in wild flowers of the spring, close to the road, was
convenient for making his attempt at walking, and
for sitting a little while in the open air, where the
singing of the skylark and other birds made it very

I Iagreeable, and he had manifest pleasure in lingering.

Were to comply with my feelings, should indulge
myself in retracing, in memory, all our other drives
in different directions round this wonderful city,--to

the hilly road beyond St. Peter's, from whence the
dome of that magnificent church, looking down upon

       seen in minute detail in all its vastness; to the

different gardens, in that princely style of grandeur of
art and rich luxuriancy of nature so happily blended

at Rome, and no where else to be seen in such per

fection; and to the great ruins of antiquity, which

from magnitude astonish and delight no less than by
their picturesque beauty,--the rose, the vine, the cy
press, and the olive luxuriating amidst their decay,
especially on the Palatine, where the guides are
gardeners, and the richest cultivation mingled with
and interrupted by ruined walls, and fallen masses
and buildings in every stage of decay. After the
confinement of sick chamber,-- after the abandon
ment of hope of recovery, to visit these scenes with

my patient, daily, `sensibly improving, was enjoyment
indeed; and the circumstances, and the occasion,

suppose, gave their tinge of feeling to every thing
it,
    is

                             a
                                                               is

                                                 I

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                             357

around, and helped to make an impression on my
mind, which will be durable always, of admiration of

I Ithe scenery, and of its wonderful power of interest
ing beyond all other scenes ever witnessed.  must

not omit mentioning that, as he mended, the senti

ment of gratitude to Divine Providence was overflow

ing, and he was most amiable and affectionate in

manner. He often inculcated the propriety, in regard
to happiness, of the subjugation of self, in all selfish- .
ness, as the very bane of comfort, and the most active
cause of the dereliction of social duties, and the de

struction of good and friendly feelings; and he ex

pressed frequently the intention, if his life were

spared, of devoting it to purposes of utility (seeming

to think lightly of what he had already done), and to

the service of his friends, rather than to the pursuits

of ambition, pleasure, or happiness, with himself for

their main object. So rapidly did he improve, that
he was able to go in the carriage to witness the

splendid illumination of St. Peter's, on the night of

Easter Monday, and to quit Rome, on our way to

Geneva, on the 30th of April; on due consideration,

it appearing better to undertake the journey to a

cooler climate, than to remain and encounter the

heats of an Italian summer.
   We travelled by easy journeys of from five and

twenty to five and thirty miles a day, generally be
tween breakfast and dinner, and stopped occasionally

at the great towns, where the inns were comfortable,
to rest for a few days. We took the road by Sienna

to Florence, hoping that, though the inns are not so
good on that as on the Perugino line of road, it

would be less crowded by the English, then hurrying

northwards from Rome; but our`expectations were

AA 3

858 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Inot answered. On the 3d of May we arrived at

Sienna. He bore travelling even better than ex

pected; and occasionally enjoyed the scenery, espe

cially the beautiful wild mountain scenery, with its

woods and lakes, between Ronfilione and St. Lorenzo,

which the delicious weather we had, and the good

ness of the road, and the rapidity and ease with which

we travelled, made particularly agreeable; and hardly

less so, in such delightful spring weather, was the

ascent of the mountains to Radicofani, through the

vine-clad glens and hills in the neighbourhood of

Aquapendente, and the hilly pastoral region beyond it.
At Sienna he rested a day. On the morning of the

5th of May we left
a                   and the same day arrived
at Florence, where he recruited considerably, was in
     it
better spirits than usual, and stronger, and had a
                                        a
lively pleasure in an evening drive, once or twice in
                                      it,
an open carriage, to the preserves of the Grand
                                                           a
Duke, where there are so many circumstances com
                                                     it,
bined to amuse and refresh an invalid, and especially
                                                                    a
  sportsman and lover of nature, -- such as the lux

uriant vegetation and foliage of meadows, shrubberies,

and groves; the abundance of pheasants and other

game; and the Arno, at this season fine clear and

rapid river. He remembered that when he had been

at Florence before, he had eaten the ortolan in great

perfection. He wished now to see and examine this

bird as an object of natural history; but the season

for was hardly arrived. However, our intelligent

courier procured one from countryman, who was

in the habit of catching these birds, and fattening

them on bread and milk for the market, to which

they are brought alive in cages. It was about the

size and shape of robin, but more delicate, with

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  359

Iplumage not unlike that of the robin, without its red

 breast,-- believe it is the Provence wheat-ear of

 Latham (Motacilla massiliensis, Lin.)

     From Florence we went by Lucca, Carrara,

 Massa, Sassana, Pescia, and the new mountain and

 maritime road to Genoa, where we arrived on the

 12th ofMay. This part of our journey, almost without
 any exception, was agreeable. The mountain air, the

 mountain scenery, the delicious weather, with all the

 charms of May, were very enjoyable; the diversity of
 country, the triumph of art in the construction of
this grand road, the magnificent views of the Mediter

 ranean, its embayed and wooded shores, aflbrded ever
varying amusement, and the inns generally were com

fortable and quiet.
    We remained at Genoa from the 12th to the

 18th of May. The first three or four days he was
pretty well, and able to take an evening drive in an
open carriage round the ramparts of the town, which
command those delightful views of the extraordinary
suburbs, where villas, gardens, groves, in rich profu

sion, mixed together on the most rugged ground,

bounded by the white city and blue sea on one side,
and the green precipitous naked mountain in the op
posite directions, are singularly contrasted, and form
a wholewhich is at once grand, beautiful, strange.
During the last two days he was unwell, it was

a time of much anxiety, and it was doubtful if

he would be able to leave Genoa. We proceeded
next by way of Novi and Alessandria to Turin,
where we arrived on the 20th. The mountainous
part of the journey was very agreeable to him; the'
air cool, the scenery amusing, and the road good.`
There was heavy rain during part of the day, but it

                                       AA 4

360 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

was followed in the afternoon by fine weather, ac-I

companied by the delightful freshness of everything,

and the increased beauty which, in the season of

spring, and amongst mountains with abundant foliage

and streams, the scenery always acquires. When we

had passed the mountains, and entered upon the

plain country, -- when we had lost sight of the olive

groves, and rarely saw the cypress, or the Medi

terranean pine, and the vegetation indicated a cooler

climate, the mulberry and poplar the prevailing trees,

and the pasture of the brightest green,-- the heat was
greater, owing to the closeness of the air at the time,

Iand travelling was tedious from the heavy roads. We

stopped one day at Turin. At his desire, visited

the museum of the city, which is remarkably|well
Ikept, and rich in collections of natural history, espe
cially of birds.  examined for him the water ousel,

which has the singular and very curious habit of
walking under water, and is alluded to in his " Sal

monia." He had inferred from analogy that it might `
be able to do this by means of air-pump feet, similar
Ito those of the fly, and some other animals which

walk against gravity; but found its feet like those
of the other birds of the great family Passeres, to

which it belongs, merely fitted for grasping; and the

intelligent naturalist, who very obligingly showed me

the specimen, told me that it ran along the bottom of

rivers only where there were stones for it to lay
hold of
On the 22d we went to Susa, and slept there. The

drive from Turin to Susa he enjoyed much. The
summits of the Alps were covered with snow, whilst

advanced spring displayed all its charms in the deep

narrow valley, through which the greater part of the

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  861

way winds; and here it was truly " ver purpureum,"
for owing to the excess of flowers of this hue, espe
cially a bright-red vetch, this colour was even pre
dominant over green. On the following day we
crossed Mont Cenis, and slept at Lanlesburg. He
had rather an apprehension of this day's journey,
from the recollection of what we had experienced on

a former occasion, already noticed, when we travelled

Itogether from London to Ravenna after his first at

tack; but the apprehension, am glad to say, was not

confirmed. Indeed this was the most agreeable day's
journey of all, and the one whichamused and pleased
him most. The road was in excellent order; the

mules drew the carriage in the most easy manner.

The sky was clear; the temperature of the air most
agreeable, warmed by currents of air ascending from

the plain, as was indicated in a striking manner in
one spot in sunshine, on the brink of a precipice, where
a vast number of minute bodies were seen in agita
tion, moving in all directions, chiefly upwards, which

we supposed at first were insects, their motion being
apparently under the influence of volition, but which

proved to be minute portions of the down of a small
thistle. He felt refreshed by the light mountain air,
aided by the influence of the Alpine scenery, which at
the time was unusually attractive. The winter horrors
of the mountains had disappeared; spring had nearly

reached their summit; the snow remained only where
it was most picturesque; the torrents were in full

force, and animated the scene with their noise and mo

tion, as much as the bursting vegetation enlivened it

in its young green on the chesnut in the lower region,

and higher up in the larch and Alpine pine, almost to
the top of the ascent, where even these hardy trees

362 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE OF

showed the effects of winter,--the one without leaves,
and the foliage of the other of a sallow and sickly

green.

   We reached the monastery of Mont Cenis about

noon, but did not stop, excepting to get some trout

Ifrom its tank, which he was very desirous of having;

and he was much pleased when returned to the car

riage in afew minutes with two fine ones, which were

Itaken out of the reservoir alive, especially as had

ascertained their temperature and the temperature of

I Ithe water. The latter found 40°, the former 4:2`.

Imay notice here, from the observations which have

Imade in crossing this mountain three different times,

at different seasons of the year, that believe 40° is

the constant temperature of the water, which supplies

the tank in a full. stream, flowing from under snow;

and that in consequence of this low temperature,
which is probably the same as that of the bottom of

Ithe lake, from whence the fish are taken, the trout
here is always in season.  am not aware that the

Itrout has been observed before of so low a temper

ature ; and suspect that no where that the temper

ature of the water is not similar will the same pecu

liarity of constant good condition exist.* Besides

temperature, it must, in part too, depend on having
a never-failing supply of food; and that is here af

Iforded in a small shrimp, which, it must be inferred,

flourishes in cold water, and which found in plenty
in the stomach of one of the trouts.

The air and dreary aspect of winter still lingered

in the mountain glen, in which the monastery is

  I"` In accordance with this, am informed that the char inhabiting

the deep waters of the Coniston Lake, in Lancashire, are always in

season.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

situated; in the shade the thermometer was 48°;

the surrounding peaks were still in their white winter

clothing; the grass of the plain surrounding the
lake, only just exposed by the melting of the snow,

was withered, as if it had felt the southern sun and

drought; and the lake itself exhibited a most singular

appearance, from the shadows in it of the adjoining

snowy heights, and from the mixture of snow, ice, and

water on its surface, occasioning a cOI1fi_lS!d, dazzling,

glassy appearance, which was most disagreeable to

the eye, as well as most perplexing to the under

standing. Our horses, which had been sent up at an

early hour in the morning, took our carriage rapidly

down to Lanlesburg, where we arrived about two

in the afternoon,-- on his part almost without the

feeling of fatigue.

   We renewed our journey the following morn

ing, and slept that night at La Chambre. At this

--Iseason these Alpine valleys through which we de
scended were in great beauty,  may say splen

dour; such a profhsion of wild flowers; such rich

pasture meadows; such a variety of shrubs, and
so many of our garden plants wild; and then the

singing of the birds, the sweetness and freshness of

Ithe air, and the gushing of the clear streams. When

   recollect the circumstances of the season and

scenery, not to mention its features of grandeur, ---the

snowy peaks, the forests of pine, larch, and birch;

Iwhen recal my ideas of these scenes in Malta, and
Iin September, the time and place in which now
write,--it is with afeeling of pleasure and regret, and

it is difiicult not to linger in memory amongst them.

   The next day we went no further than Maltavern.

It is a solitary inn, finely situated, and well kept.

364_       MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

We arrived early; and part of the afternoon my

brother spent in the garden, sometimes walking, and

when tired, sitting in an arbour covered with sweet

Iscented shrubs. The next day we passed through

Chamberry to Aix, where visited the baths, and

made inquiries respecting their medicinal properties,

with the idea that they might be fitted for him, and

that it might be advisable to return to them from
ifGeneva,
           the physicians there should recommend
Itrial of their waters. And by his particular desire
went to the adjoining lake of Burget, in which that

rare and beautiful species of trout, the ombre che

` valier, is found, in hopes of being able to get one,

and collect particulars of its natural history, --- a sub

ject in which, even in his then state of health, he

was so much interested, that he wished to visit the

lake after his day's journey, merely to see the waters
which fed a rare species of salmo, for there was no

Ichance of procuring the fish itself, it being taken, as
  was informed, in a distant and deep part of the

lake.

   The following day we went as far as the village of

Frangi, through a beautiful country, in scenery, cul
tivation, and neatness reminding one of some of the

finest parts of the midland counties of England.
   On the 28th of May we arrived at an early hour

at Geneva, and took up our abode at La Couronne,

I Ian excellent inn, the mistress of which is distin

guished for civility; and may add that found it

combined with very kind and good feeling, for the

calling forth of which an occasion too soon occurred.

   This short day's journey my brother bore well.
During it we had a good deal of conversation ; he

reverted to past times, the early period of his life,

                sra HUMPHRY navr.                                                                                          365

and to many of the more interesting parts of his life;

and spoke cheerfully, and not without hope, in re
gard to the future amendment of his health. On our

arrival at the inn he merely reclined on a sofa, and
occasionally walked to the window, and looked out

upon the lake, and expressed a longing wish to throw
a fly, as he had been before in the habit of doing, on

its waters and on his favourite Rhone. Here he

I Ilearnt the death of his old friend Dr. Thomas Young,
as have elsewhere observed."`                                   was not present

I Iwhen Lady Davy made the communication to him;

but when returned saw him affected, and he told
                a
                          a

                                               it,

                                                             a
me how deeply he had been affected by                                       even to

Inprofusion of tears, and in manner that was almost
unaccountable.                                  short time he recovered his

composure and conversed on indifferent matters.

   At five o'cl0ck he dined at table, and made toler

able dinner. After dinner he was read to, according

to his custom. At nine o'clock he prepared to go to
bed. In undressing, he struck his elbow against the

projecting arm of the sofa on which he sat. The

effect was very extraordinary: he was suddenly seized

with universal tremor; he experienced an intense

ifpain in the part struck, and sensation, he said, as

he were dying. He was got into bed as soon as pos
sible. The painful sensations quickly subsided, and
Ia

    a
         it a ;

                 is a
                                aa

                                                  ;

                                               a

                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                        a
in few minutes were entirely gone. There was no

* My brother, in his sketches of the characters of his distinguished
                                                Young:
con"tempomruasrites,notthpuasssnotbicyesDDr.r.  Young,  --      Phenomenon  Young at

                                                        called

Cambridge  man of universal erudition, and almost universal accom

plishments. Had he limited himself to any one department of know
ledge, he must have been first in that department. But as rnathe

matician,  scholar, hieroglyphist, he was eminent; and he knew so

much that  difiicult to say what he did not know. He was most

amiable and good-tempered man too fond, perhaps, of the society of
persons of rank for true philosopher."

            MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

mark of hurt on the elbow, no pain or remaining ten
derness; and the effect of the blow perplexed him no

less than it did me. A slight feverish feeling followed,

which he thought little of; he took an anodyne draught

of the acetate of morphine, and then desired to be

read to, that his mind might be composed to sleep by

agreeable images.

I About half-past nine he wished to be left alone, and
  took my leave of him for the night, and for ever on
earth. His servant, who always slept in his room,

called me about half-past two, saying he was taken
Ivery ill.
            went to him immediately. He was then
in a state of insensibility, his respiration extremely

slow and convulsive, and the pulse imperceptible. He

Iwas dying; and in a few minutes he expired.

Ithank God, was present to close his eyes! In death

his countenance was composed and of its mildest

expression, indicative of no pain or suffering in the

separation of the immortal from the mortal part.

This fatal moment was about three A. M., on the 29th

of May. It seemed as if it were destined that his

ashes should not   be  deposited, according to his pre
sentiment, in the      eternal city," but in a Protestant
                    "

city; the place for which we had expressly left Rome,

and where death seemed to have awaited him, and

where every mark of respect that could be paid to his
memory was willingly shown by the government of

this free and literary republic; to the principal in

habitants of Which he was personally known, and

generally known by his reputation.

   His funeral took place on the 1st of June, and was

most respectfully attended.           of the proces

   The following was the arrangement
sion, as given to me in writing: --

 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.                       367

The Coflin, carried by Bearers.
             The Servants.

John Davy, and the English Clergyman.

                   The Academy.
       The Secretary of the Deceased.

   The Council of State and the Clergy.
The English invited by the Committee

              of the English Chapel.

                 The Society of Arts.
              The Physical Society.
        The Students of the Academy.

                       The Public.

   His remains were deposited in the burying-ground
of the city without the walls, and close to the grave
of Professor Pictet. The spot is marked by a simple
monument, in the form of an obelisk, erected by
Lady Davy, on which is the following inscription :--

                                          Hic jacet
                                    HUMPIIRY Davy,
                           Eques Magnse Britanicm Baronetus,
                      Olim Regiae Societ: Londin: Praases,
                         Summus Arcanorum Naturm indigator.
     N atus Penzantise, Cornubiensum, xvII Decemb: MnccLxxvIII.
                Obiit Genevze Helvetiorum xxrx Mai, Mnccoxxrx.

I should notice that the students of the university

were desirous of marking their respect by carrying

the body, and made an application to this effect; which
was not acceded to, from an apprehension that it

might serve as a precedent, and lead to irregularities

in a ceremony which in Geneva is performed in a

very simple manner, and much restricted by the

sumptuary laws of the state.             .

   Respecting the nature of the complaint and the

Iimmediate cause of the death of my dear brother,

368 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

have nothing to state that is at all satisfactory to my

self. At its commencement, that is, after the first

paralytic attack  has been erroneously called apo
                  (it
                      it

                            I
                                       II
plectic), in December, 1827, was of opinion that
there was some softening of the brain and some
enlargement of the heart, without augmentation of

its muscular substance. This opinion expressed

then to Drs. Babington and Holland, and am now

disposed to consider as the most probable. It was

my wish to have had the exact nature of his com
plaint and the cause of his death investigated by an
anatomical examination. But this was contrary to
his desire, and to promise which had made him at
      it

                          a
                             a

                                             a

                               I
Rome. He had dread of post mortem examination,

founded on an idea which occurred to his active mind,

that  was possible for sensation to remain in the

animal fibre after the loss of irritability and the power

of giving proof to others of its existence. Conse

quently, such an investigation not having been made,

his disease, as to its exact kind and the immediate

cause of his death, must ever remain doubtful.

Before quit this painful subject, should remark
      aI
        it I

                          a

                           I it
                                   I

                                                                      it
that he had also horror of being buried alive, before

animation was completely extinct, and he desired that

the interment should not be performed till after ten

days. was very anxious to have complied with this

injunction, merely because was his request; but at

Geneva was impossible, being contrary to law to

keep body so long unburied. The keeping even
three days was an indulgence; and as signs of putre

faction then began to appear, made no opposition to

the performance of the ceremony.

              sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                                   369`

              CHAPTER VIII.

HIS POSTHUMOUS WORK, " CONSOLATIONS IN    TRAVEL, OR LAST DAYS   OF A
                                                                  RE..
    PHILOSOPHER-U ----NOTICES RESPEOTING  IT. -- DESCRIPTION OF

MARKABLE DRAMS---FR.AGMEN`l' OF A VISION---PAl-ITICULARS OF`

HIS PERSON,` DISPOSITION, AND HABI`l`S.----LETTERS OF HIS TO THE LATE

MIL COLERIDGE.--POR.TRAITS OF HIM. -- LETTER FROM ME. POOLE RE-`

FERRING TO ONE---LETTER FROM THE SAME GENTLEMAN ON HIS CHA.

RACTER GENERALLY. -----CONCLUDING REMARKS- '---LINES ON HIM BY

MR. SOTHEBY.                                                            `

I HAVE now to speak of a work to Which frequent al

lusions have been made in the preceding pages; a
posthumous work, and my brother's only one, " Con
solations in Travel, or Last Days of a Philosopher,"

with which, probably, most of my readers are al

ready acquainted, as it has passed through two ample

editions.

  It consists, as has been already mentioned, of six

dialogues. The first dialogue, called the " Vision,"

is held between Onuphrio, Philalethes, and Ambro
sio, and relates to the progress of society, the advance
of science and art, and their influence on mankind;

with speculations on intellectual natures, and probable
states of existence in other worlds. The scene is the

Colosseum in `Rome, by moonlight. The most im

portant truth inculcated  is, that in the progress of
                            is
society, no useful discovery lost; all great and real

improvements are perpetuated; and that in conse

quence the welfare of mankind in continued pro
                                          is

gression.

von. 11.                  B
                              B

   870 rrurrorns or THE LIFE or

   The scene of the second dialogue is the summit of

   Vesuvius, --the subject, discussions connected with

   the vision in the Colosseum, on religion generally,

   and on the Christian religion in particular; in which

   Ambrosio, an enlightened and liberal Catholic, acts

   the part of the Christian advocate, 1st, defending
   the Mosaic account of the creation of man, as in

   strict harmony with reason, and accordant with all

'  just metaphysical views of the human mind; Qdly,
   maintaining that man was created with a religious

   feeling, or instinct, or knowledge, as represented by

   Moses, which declining with his fall, its place was

   supplied by Revelation, without which true religion

   must have become extinct on earth; and 3dly, de
   riving Christianity from Judaism,_-the same pure

   theism as that of the patriarchs, but spiritualised, and

   generalised, so as to be fit for all mankind; founding

   his creed rather on the fitness of its doctrines than

   upon historical evidences, or the nature of its mira

   cles,-- and repelling objections, derived from any
   apparent want of conformity in the doctrines of Chris
   tianity to the usual order of events, on " the principle

   that religion has nothing to do with the usual order

   of events." -- " It is," he eloquently says, " a pure

   and Divine instinct, intended to give results to man

   which he cannot obtain by the common use of his

   reason, and which, at first view, often appear contra

   dictory to it; but which, when examined by the most

   refined tests, and considered in the most extensive

   and profound relations, are, in fact, in conformity

   with the most exalted intellectual knowledge; so

   that, indeed, the results of pure reason ultimately be
   come the same with those of faith. The tree of

   knowledge is grafted upon the tree of life ; and that

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                 371

fruit which brought the fear of death into the world,
budding on an immortal stock, becomes the fruit of

the promise of immortality."  `

The third dialogue is held at Paestum. A cha
racter is introduced, called " The Unknown," who

takes the lead in the conversation ; and, from circum

stances connected with the locality, proceeds to general
views of the geological structure of the earth, and of

the revolutions or changes which our planet has under

gone, deduced fiom actual observations on existing

strata. From geology the conversation turns to reli
gion; and " The Unknown" continues the defence

of Christianity on the same ground as Ambrosio;

stating how, fi'om a sceptic, which he was in his

youth, he became a believer, from considering the

intellectual faculties of brutes, compared with those
of man, and by examining instinctive powers, which

led him to the conclusion that revelation is to man in

the place of instinct.
   The same person appears in the fourth dialogue,

which, as well as the two remaining, is held between

him as the principal speaker and Philalethes and

Eubathes. In the fourth, which is commenced at

` the falls of the Traun, in Styria, and concluded in
  the cavern of the Madelina, near Adelsburg, in Car

niola, the conversation is partly relative to that sin

gular animal the Proteus anguinus, partly on the

subject of respiration and animal heat, and in part on

the nature of the soul, and the destiny of man after

death, in connection with belief in Christianity. In

this last part, the main argument is upheld by " The
Unknown," for the immateriality and consequent
immortality of the soul, founded on the principle, or

rather postulate, that sensibility and intelligence can

BB 2

37Q 1uEuoIIIs or THE LIFE 0F

not result from any possible combination of any in

sensate unintelligent atoms.

   The person called "The Unknown" appears in

the fifth dialogue, in the character of a chemical phi

losopher, gives some account of himself; points out

the importance of chemical science to society; de

scribes what a true chemical philosopher ought to:

be; the qualities of mind and the studies requisite

to form him; the method of promoting chemical sci

ence, and the spirit of philosophy in which it ought

to be pursued.                `

` The scene of the last dialogue is at Pola, in Istria ;.

and in it are discussed principally the effects of time,

or the changes which take place on the surface of our:

globe from the action of the various causes to which

material forms are exposed. Such is a very slight   `
outline of the work.
To me these dialogues are particularly interesting,

fi'om the circumstances under which they were writ

ten, and the time and manner in which they were

Iconcluded; from the deep interest he expressed in

them himself when read them to him during the

height of his illness, and when he supposed he had

not `many hours to live ; from his having bequeathed

Ithem to me in his will, and entrusted me with the pub

lishing of them; and may add also, from their na
ture and `tendency as to doctrine, and the manner in

which they display his character, as a poet, as a me

taphysician, as a geologist, as a chemist, and as a

Christian, and in each the philosopher, in the original,
modest, and humble meaning of the word. As such
he began his career; as such he terminated it; and
Ias such trust his name will descend to posterity.
IIn the notice which
                      prefixed to the `" Conso-I

                                                                          sm HUMP!-IRY DAVY.  373:

Ilations in Travel," thought it right to state` that`  `.`                a
                                                                                        is
   the characters of the dialogue were intended to be        it a
                                                                      is  Ia
ideal, at least in great part; and that the incidents
introduced, as well as the persons, were to be re                                   is

ceived only as subordinate, and subservient to the                                           ;

sentiments and doctrines." Notwithstanding this                                    I
warning, even some of my brother's friends, who                                                   a
were well acquainted with the general occurrences of                                                    a
                                                                                            I
his life, have been inclined to receive as real, circum                                                                  a

stances which were entirely imaginary. One gentle-`
man, very old friend, who mentioned in his will,
told Dr. Babington, after reading the " Consolations
in Travel," that in journey which he had made

lately through Southern Austria, he had stopped, and
fished at the falls of the Traun, and had heard of my
brother's having been there; but was surprised that
he heard nothing of the incident which in the fourth

dialogue described as having happened to Philale

thes, or the author, viz. his being precipitated down
the fall, and his being hooked up by an angler fishing
below for hucho; and Dr. Babington asked me how

that was, whether real or fiction and when told

him was the latter, he further begged to be in
formed whether my brother had ever been in Pales
tine, its shore being introduced as the scene of
vision in the third dialogue. This was very natural

inquiry, as my brother had been so much abroad, and

might have made (though he never did) journey to
Egypt and Syria, without its being generally known.
As far as relates to scenery, believe may state that
in the dialogues no other place introduced except
ing this, the site of the ancient Ptolemais, with which

he was not personally and intimately acquainted.

    On the persons of the dialoguesa few remarks

                                                                          B
                                                                              B
                                                                                 3

374 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

may be required, on those features of them which

may be considered as rather taken from life than

ideal.

IThe resemblance between Ambrosio and Mon
signor Spada has already been alluded to.`  hope

Ithis gentleman will not be displeased with the re
flected character, and sure  am he will not be

with the warm zeal which animates Ambrosio's de

fence of the Christian religion. My brother, pro

bably, made choice of a Roman Catholic for this
duty, partly on account of the great political question

Ithen in agitation, and which at that time was so tri

umphantly carried, -- mean the Catholic question.
In a letter to Lady Davy, written from his dictation,

at Rome, just after his attack, and of which he gave

me a copy, he expresses his delight on the occasion.

IHe says, " rejoice that the Catholic question is
Icarried: without having a strong political bias, have

always considered this point as essential to the wel
fare of England as a great country, and connected

with her glory as a liberal, philosophical, and Christian

country." And partly from a friendly feeling, which

he had, in some respects, to the discipline and doc

trines of the Roman Catholics. The obedience

which this church requires, the submission of reason,

the unlimited faith, he considered favourable to

religious feeling, and the securest harbour for the

unfortunate and afllicted ; the strongest hold against

popular schism, scepticism, and fanaticism; and in ac

cordance with the faculties and wants of the human

mind, especially as regarding its affections. On the

latter point he expresses himself strongly in his diary,

on the 14th of June, 18Q7, at Aussee, on occasion of

that beautiful ceremony, the Féte Dieu. His words

srn HUMPHRY DAVY.  375

are,--" Struck by the affecting nature and superi
ority of the Catholic religion, which gives joy and

comfort to the heart, by making a festivity and not a

hard duty of worship, -- it is the Féte Dieu." His
views of the weakness and fallacy of reason on the
subject of religion might have promoted a bias in his
mind in favour of this church; and having travelled

much in Roman Catholic countries, and witnessed

the powerful influence which religion there has over
the people, as regards habits of life and daily feel-.
ings, the bias might have been confirmed; and it

must have been confirmed from seeing the positive
civil and social advantages which it gives in compa

rison with the Protestant ; its levelling, unaristocratic
nature; its being no distinguisher of persons; its
bringing all classes of people together, without dis
tinction, in mixed worship, under the same roof; its

throwing open the most splendid churches to the po

pulace, and allowing them to be made an asylum to
the pauper * ; thus giving one kind of social liberty,
that which is personal, in lieu of that which is legal,
and which has generally been associated with Pro
testantism. But whilst he saw the advantages belong
ing to the Roman Catholic religion, he saw too the

   * An Englishman returning from Italy, where he has been accus-`
tomed to see the most splendid churches open to the public for devo
tion, without distinction of rank or any exception, is necessarily pained,`
on visiting the great churches of our metropolis, to find their doors
closed against him, and that he must pay to see them. In the former,

the free access encourages devotion; probably, many who have entered

from curiosity have had a better feeling excited, and have remained to

Ipray. In the latter--our churches,--the angry feelings of the casual

visitor, apprehend, are oftener roused at the mercenary manner in
which fees are exacted. Who can say that the shut-up state of
Westminster Abbey is not disgraceful to England, both considered as a
place of public worship; and a receptacle of monuments erected by a
grateful country to her distinguished men?

                              BB4I

376 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

abuses to which it is liable, and which it had run into `

Iduring its period of worldly prosperity. He himself,
   believe, belonged to no church, excepting, in an.
enlarged sense, to the " Church of Christ," according
to the declaration of " The Unknown" in the third

Idialogue, which there consider his own.

    In the description of the character of Eubathes in

the fourth dialogue, there is a striking resemblance
to his friend Dr. Wollaston, whose health had been

declining before the dialogues were commenced, and

who died, as we have seen, before they were finished.

Secretaries of the Royal Society for many years to
gether, a kind of generous rivalship had existed be
tween them ; and a volume of the Philosophical

Transactions rarely appeared without contributions
from both, conducive to the advancement of science.
Dr. Thomas Young, during the same period, was Fo

reign Secretary. All three were Foreign Associates

of the first class of the Institute of France.` Their

Ideaths during the same year form a remarkable coin

cidence; and am disposed to think that my brother

had somemysterious feeling on the subject, that as
there had been a kind of conjunction in life, so there

was to be in death.

   In Philalethes the author is supposed to speak in

his own person, and may be considered as showing

the progress of his own mind in relation to certain
doctrines, metaphysical and religious, which are in
culcated; but not even this in an absolute manner,
and without exception. In giving an outline of the
incidents of Philalethes' life, he must have had in
view his own; their journeys were thesame; the

       As the number limited to eight, the honour
can be conferred on man of science.
"".                                                                                     the greatest that

                             a is
                                                                                    is

                     SIR HUMPHRY DAVY-            377

valetudinary state the same; and his feelings were

those so forcibly, and so mournfully and poetically
given, in comparing the early career of Philalethes,
and the enjoyments which London then afforded

him, with his latter condition, when youth and

health were gone, and when even ambition had lost

its power over him, and in beautiful nature alone he

found amusement from ennui, and unceasing charms.
And the identity of Philalethes and the author is

strengthened by the vision ascribed to the former in `

the first dialogue, and the dream in the second.
--It may be supposed that the vision, as Ambrosio
considered was mere fiction
I                                       poetical epitome
           it,       a              it a
                                                           it
of his philosophical opinions. But was not exactly
so. He says,_" The most important parts of

really occurred to me in sleep, particularly that in

which seemed to leave the earth, and launch into

the infinity of space, under the guidance of tutelarya
genius. And the origin and progress of civil society
form likewise parts of another dream which hadI

many years ago; and           I itwas in the reverie which

happened when you quitted me in the Colosseum,

that wove all these thoughts together, and gave
I

                  a
them the form in which narrated them to you."'
And in confirmation of this, in one of his note-books,

there occurs partial sketch of the two dreams, one
of whichhe calls " day dream." As the found
                        9. a
_ation of this singular vision,I    shall extract the notice

verbatim                                                                                                .
:
" Rome, November 1819.--One moonlight night,

when the summer seemed to pass into the autumn,

and the zephyr blew as mildly as in June, was walk.
                                        I

ing in the Colosseum full of sublime thoughts, consi.

dering the loss of the Greek and Roman superstition,

378 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

and comparing it with the beadsman's worship in the

midst of this sublime pile of ruins ; when of a sudden

I saw a bright mist in one of the arcades, so luminous

Ithat thought a person must be advancingwith a light.
I approached towards when suddenly enveloped

me; an aromatic smell, like that of fresh orange
a                                        it
                 a
flowers, seemed to penetrate not only into my nos
                    a
trils, but even into my respiratory organs, accom
               a I it,
panied with sweet sounds, so low that they seemed

almost ideal; and sort of halo, of intense brilliancy,

and of all the hues of the rainbow, above which ap

peared female form of exquisite beauty.          was not
                                         I`
alarmed, but rather delighted, at the new kind ofI

ideal or sensual existence experienced, when voice,
                                                 a

distinct, but like that of flute, said,  am one of

the Roman deities! You disbelieve all the ancient

opinions, as dreams and fables; nevertheless they are

founded in truth. Before the existence of man, and

some time after, race of beings who are independ

ent of respiration and air occasionally dwelt on the
globe, -- the people of that assemblage of stars called

the milky way; but now your atmosphere so grossis

we do not often visit you. We find the same diffi

`culty in moving in your air that bird experiences
                        a

in attempting to use its wings in water. Our organ

isized matter infinitely more subtle than yours: when

your planet was warmer, we occasionally dwelt with

you. We have the power of arranging vapours and

mists, and the matter that refracts light, so as to as

sume almost any form we like; and we purify the
common elements for our purposes. In the early
stage of society we condescended to instruct man,   a

rude and gross race, and give them some of our know

               sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                          379

Iledge. A day is suflicient for us to learn your language.
  have acquired it in hearing three or four of your
Icountrymen converse, and in reading one of your
books.  am the most corporeal of all those beings;

Iand an expenditure of common matter, in a flight

which made from Sirius to a star you call Alpha

Lyra, induced me to pay a visit to the earth for the
Ipurpose

here
        of  recruiting  myself. The last time            was
        '"   Here the   MS. terminates abruptly;         and

siamyms, ed"iatelyhadfolloonwsthae  notice of the other
Ithen                                7th April, 1821,    dream.
                                                         a very
He

Icurious dream, which, because it has some analogy

to the preceding day dream, shall detail: --
   " In the first part of the night my dreams were

Irather disagreeable, as well as can recollect. It
Imust have been considerably after midnight, when

imagined myself in a place partially illuminated with

a reddish hazy light; within it was dark and ob

scure; but without, and opening upon the sky,
Ivery bright.  experienced a new kind of sensation,
ifwhich it is impossible to describe. It seemed as
I became diffused in the atmosphere, and had a ge-`
neral sense of balmywarmth. Floating a little while

I Iin the atmosphere, found that had wings. Slowly,
Iand with some difliculty, rose in the air; and gra

Idually ascending above the cave or recess in which

was the red light, found myself in the sky, amidst
Ibright clouds and galaxies of light. It seemed as

if was altogether entering a new state of exist
ence. I, for some time, reposed upon the highest of
these galaxies, and saw as it were the immensity of
Ispace, -- systems of suns and worlds, forming a sort
`of abyss of light, into which      seemed doubtful

880 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I Iwhether should plunge. At this moment seemed"

Iin communication with some . intelligent being, to

Iwhom stated, that had always been of opinion

that the spirit is eternal, and in a state of progression

from one. existence to another more perfect; that I.

had just left a world where all was dark, cold, gross,

Iand heavy; that now knew what it was to have a
Ipurer and better existence, but that hoped for
Isomething still more perfect; that was now in na
Itural warmth, light, and ether; and that hoped to

be, ultimately, in a world of intellectual light, where

the causes of all things would be developed, and

where the sources of pleasure would be unbounded

knowledge. After this my dream became confused;

my fields of light changed to a sort of luminous wood

filled with paths, and the bright vision degenerated

Iinto a common dream."      .

The dream or vision of Philalethes have alluded

to in the second dialogue, may be dismissed with very

brief notice. It occurred to my brother inthe de

lirium of the feverish attack which he had, and which `

so nearly proved fatal to him, in the beginning of

the winter of 1807; and, as he imagined, related to

and was the image of the young person who twenty

one years after became his kind nurse in a remote

Ipart of Europe, and was of essential use to him in

this capacity. Throughout life, may observe, he

was very subject in sleep to dream, and especially in

early life, when his dreams were frequently of a very

`vivid and often terrific kind, and sometimes occa

sioned his walking in his sleep. Notice of dreams is

Inot unfrequent amongst his memoranda; even as late

as 1825 he gives an account of one, which shall in

               sm HUMP]-IRY DAVY.                              381`

troduce, as it is as remarkable for the reasoning

power displayed in it as the others already given are

for wildness of imagination. It is dated the 2nd of

April, and is as follows : --
   " Last night, at Holme, slept in a bed full of fleas,

yet my dreams were agreeable and full of intelligence.
I I Ithought was arguing with a sceptic, who believe
Iwas * "' "".
               said, ` Consider this world, all that we

Ifknow of the universe; everything is arranged in a
manner which places chance at defiance.                        all the

planets and their satellites in their relation to the
sun observe fixed laws, which, as far as we can

conceive by analogy, are the same as those belonging

to our earth, where everything is intended to produce

perpetual life, it is a million to one that such com
binations, which are, according to our analogies, in
telligent, should be produced by accident.' * * *

` Well, but how an intelligent cause ? what can you

know of this? It may be a spirit, a principle, an

Ienergy; it is nothing we can grasp or understand.'

replied ` No; there is an intelligent cause, which is

God. You cannot know or understand the Creator,
the Infinite, the Divine Eternal Mind; but you may

wonder   at its powers,     adore its  geovoedrnlaesstsi.n'g"  mercy,
and be  grateful for its  unceasing

` At no period of his life did he entirely disregard

dreams ; he remembered more of them than is usual,

but chiefly as phenomena of mind, though occa

sionally he may have indulged in the idea that their

source was on high, according to the old Homeric

notion, and given for forewarning.                                      `
" The Unknown," who stands so prominently out

in the latter dialogues, by many readers may be
received as a portrait of himself in a picturesque

38Q MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ifdisguise of dress and situation.  Philalethes may

be considered as representing him in ordinary life, as
what he was, it may be supposed that " The Unknown"

was intended to represent what he wished to be, and

Ithat he was designed as the bean ideal of the chemical

philosopher whose character he delineates. remem

ber, when reading to my brother during his illness the

account which The Unknown gives of himself at the

opening of the fifth dialogue, being struck with the

resemblance and mentioning it to him; but he would

not allow that the prototype of the character was

himself However, independent of his dress and

some of the incidents of his life, he was essentially

the prototype, in sentiments, feelings, opinions, doc
trines, in brief, in mind; and their origin and their

general course of life were very similar, and with some

exceptions, too, their course of travel. The religious

Isentiments The Unknoam expresses, and his metaphy

sical doctrines, were, believe, entirely my brother's

own--the last results of his mature studies. The

reader will perceive that they are much the same as

those which have been already given in the tenth

chapter; proving how deliberately they had been

Iformed, and how, for a number of years, the subjects

had had his consideration. This resemblance have

already pointed out. It is most remarkable in the

original argument, which he uses in favour of natural

religion,--that religion is instinct, and that revelation
is given to supply the place of this early intuitive

knowledge or instinctive feeling; an argument which

appears well adapted to such minds as those to whom

religion is not habit, and to whom analogy is not

demonstration, and whom reasoning has led to scep

ticism or infidelity.

sra HUMPHRY DAVY.  383

  IHad he lived, have no doubt he would have

altered very considerably, and have added to these

dialogues, agreeably to the intention which he ex.
pressed in one of his last letters already given.

Though the subjects discussed had had his con

sideration for many years, and he brought to bear on
them an accumulated stock of knowledge and poetical

ideas,--with the exception of two of the dialogues,

they were all rapidly written, and his plan for them

was hardly matured. In a note in pencil, written in

his journal just before his last attack, and when the

I Isixth dialogue was not finished, he says, " think

shall conclude with a vision of Eubathes, or with a

Imeeting of the four friends, and a vision ofAmbrosio.

Whichever plan, shall introduce the punishment of
the bad, retribution ; and the idea of the punishment
of the wicked in the passions outliving the organs;
the rewards of the good in pure intellectual enjoy
ments. How transient, even from their nature, are all

sensual pleasures! Even the appetite, when satisfied,
produces satiety." And there occurs a fragment of
a sketch of what was probably intended for such a

Ivision, in illustration of the punishment of the wicked,

a portion of which shall introduce : --

     # II 1= # # #

   " My time has been passed between long sleep

without sense, sleep with terrible dreams, and more
dreadful waking thoughts. This is the nature of my
punishment,--the punishment of those souls who have
avoided the sympathies of human nature, and sacri
ficed every thing to selfishness. They have all the
desires of their mortal life, without any of the powers
of gratifying them. They are everlastingly tormented

by a vain and burning desire; they see objects which

384: mzmoms or THE LIFE or

they wish to grasp, but they have no hands; objects

of beauty floating before them in the air, but they

have no wings to reach them; they have ardent
desire to converse, but they have no tongues; they
see lips moving, but they have no ears; the volume
of nature is open before them, but so distant that they

are unable to read it; they are burning, and the cool
stream is beneath them, but they have no feet to
reach it; the eye, the most glorious of all senses, is
their organ of punishment. It is revealed to me

that moons, which roll round the planets, are the
places of expiation for offending spirits; and that the
consummation of all things will be, when the moons
rush to the planets, the planets to their suns, the
`suns to one great centre-- when all will be light and
joy, and all matter animated by one pure and un

Idivided breath of Omnipotence."
        have said that all the dialogues were rapidly
written excepting two, and these were the fifth and
sixth, the greater part of which had been composed

previously some few years, and were intended to have
formed a portion of a series of dialogues on chemical
philosophy; but which, though some other portions

I Iof them were composed, were never completed.
       have now given almost all the information have
been able to collect respecting the " Consolations in

Travel," his " Legacy to the Philosophical World." In

the letter to Lady' Davy already referred to, written
during his illness, in which he thus bequeaths these

Idialogues, after mentioning the precautions he had

taken to preserve them, he adds, " should not take

Iso much interest in these works, did not believe that

they contain certain truths which cannot be recovered

Iif they are lost, and which am convinced `will be

                sra HUMPHRY DAVY.                 385

Iextremely useful both to the moral and intellectual
world.    may be mistaken in this point; yet it is the

conviction of a man perfectly sane in all the intel

lectual faculties, and looking into futurity with the

prophetic aspirations belonging to the last moments
Iof existence." This was written from his dictation
when he supposed himself dying.                   trust he was not

Ideceived in the estimate he made of the importance

of this work; trust it will be a beacon light to

young and erring genius; that it will serve as a

stimulus to good pursuits and to intellectual exertion;

that it will tend to uphold the dignity of science,
and protect the purity of scientific glory; and that in

religion it will give encouragement to timid minds

not to yield to the irony and scoffs of the gross ma

terialist and atheist; that it will make scepticism less.
plausible, and that it will impart ardent hopes and the
desire of a holy faith.

   In regard to distinguished men, everything be

longing to them acquires an interest; even trifling

circumstances. We are desirous of knowing their
form of body, expression of countenance, tone of
voice, and manner of speaking; their mode of dress;

and, in brief, all minute particulars, that we may

form for ourselves as complete a picture as possible
of them. Whilst the recollection of my brother as he

Iwas in his best days is still fresh in my mind, shall

record trusting that such record will not be un
        it,
                      it
                              is

                                               a
acceptable, and believing that he belongs to that class

of men of whom  required, at least by posterity.

He was of middle stature, about five feet seven

inches high; but appeared shorter, perhaps from the
just proportions and symmetry of his make. His

VOL. 11.        c
                   c

 886 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

 hands and feet were small, and his bones in general
 small; but his muscles were comparatively large, es

pecially of the lower extremities, in consequence of

 which he was well adapted for those exercises and
 sports of the field and river in which he delighted.
 He could walk well, and bear fatigue for a long time;
his arms and shoulders were, he used to say, less
able than his legs; yet their strength was perfectly
adequate to the management of the salmon rod, and
the laborious amusement of salmon fishing; and there
were few anglers who could throw the fly further on
the water, or with greater steadiness and delicate
precision; and he was quick in the use of his gun,
and amongst good shots a very tolerable one, espe_
cially in that kind of shooting which requires an

active hand and eye, as snipe shooting. His chest

was well formed and rather ample, and his breathing
perfectly good, and he was a good swimmer; yet in
early life, as noticed by himself in his " Researches,"
his respiration was unusually rapid, twenty-six in the
minute, which is about six above the average; people
in health generally making twenty respirations in the

Iminute. As he grew older this quickness of breath

ing diminished; and latterly believe it was rather

slower than is usual.

    His neck was rather long and slender: his head

was rather small, its surface smooth and rounded,

without any striking protuberances ; the occipital part
was small, the forehead ample and elevated, and very
beautifully rising, wide and gently arched. His face
was oval, and rather small; but, owing to the ex
pansion of forehead, not apparently so. His features
were not perfectly regular; the nose aquiline, and
broad at its base; the mouth rather large, the under

                          sra HUMPHRY DAVY.                                    887

lip prominent and full ; the teeth not large, but irre

gular; his eyes were light hazle, and well formed;
his hair and eyebrows were also light brown; the

Ilatter were scanty, the former abundant, and very

fine and glossy, with a tendency to curl. remember
                                                a
once a gentleman speaking to me about                                          and ex
                                                   it,
pressing his admiration of its quality, very much in

the manner he might use in speaking of lady's hair.

His skin was delicate, and his complexion fair, with                           it ; a

good deal of colour. His countenance was very ex
pressive, and responsive to the feelings of his mind;

and when these were agreeable,              it  was eminently

pleasing, might say beautiful, for his smile was so
          I

                       a
and his eyes were wonderfully bright, and seemed
almost to emit soft light when animated. His voice

was full-toned and melodious, with something in

which impressed his hearers, and made remem.
                                            a

                                                              it
bered indeed, have heard lady, who resided in
   distant part of the country, and who never saw
a
            ;.

             I

him, remark, that she hardly ever remembered his

name being mentioned without some notice of his

voice being made. It was particularly well adapted to .

express feeling, that kind which was predominant in

him,--the high and poetical,----and equallywell adapted

to convey tenderness and kindness. Without musical
ear, or quick perception of the difference of sounds,
        a
            a
                             a
                                                a

                                    I
                                                                       a
                                                                            a
`he had studied its intonation carefully, and had so

acquired  manner which person with fastidious

taste for music might find fault with, and yet was

very agreeable to mixed audience.               recollect at

the first anniversary dinner of the Royal Society, at
which he appeared in his capacity of President, after

the cloth was removed, and he had addressed the

company in speech which was extremely well re
          a
                            c
                               c
                                         Q

MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE OF

Iceived, the gentleman who sat next.me (and who was

not aware that was his brother), turned to me and

said,.he Was sure the President was not musical; that

his .voice was very fine, but it was deficient in just

Imusical modulation. Theperson who made this re

mark was, believe, an amateur musician, and a dis

tinguished critic in the science of sounds. His senses

generally were acute, and well fitted for active life,

and the successful. pursuit of physical science, in
which they are the messengers of information, and

unless quick and accurate, may retard and lead astray

even the most correct and penetrating minds.

His temperament was what is commonly called

the sanguine, in which there is a tendency to excess
of sensibility and irritability, and of vital action,

combined with corresponding activity of mind, and

Aa certain warmth and impetuosity of temper.

warmth of feeling and of action was essentially his,

and marked almost all his doings and sayings. In

his pursuits he was ardent and zealously persevering,

stimulated by difliculties to exertion, and delighting

to exercise the power he was conscious he possessed

of overcoming difiiculties, and as much in the ordi_

nary afifairs of life, and in shooting or fishing, as in
matters of the greatest moment and of a scientific

nature. The spring and elasticity of his mind were
extraordinary. No misfortune could depress it long

when he was in health, or, indeed, when suifering
under disease. He considered yielding weakness, and

always resisted it either by an effort of mind, or by
change of pursuit or scene. This firmness of pur

pose and exertion were very remarkably shown
during his long illness. He always strove and at

tempted to make head against  it,  trying various

     sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                       389

   remedies, consulting successively different physi
   cians, using different kinds of diet, shifting his abode

   from the north to the south, according to the sea

   sons and his sensations. Persons who did not com

   prehend his mind and temperament might misinter
   pret many of his actions, and especially while he

   was in a valetudinary state, and attribute almost to

   derangement of intellect what was the result of
   activity of mind and unyielding disposition; as his

   exercising himself not only in walking, but occasion

   ally in running, when he was struggling with a
   paralytic affection of his right leg, on the idea that

   the muscles might probably recover their tone by
   exercise; and in his continuing to shoot and fish at

   a time when most men would have been confined

   to their rooms; and in prosecuting his scientific pur

   suits and literary labours even during dangerous

   illness, and when he supposed he had only afew hours
   to live. Many proofs of this have already been

   given, especially how he occupied and amused him
   Iself in illness.
                      may notice another instance of the
   Isame kind, which have just turned to in looking

   over his note books, written from his dictation on

   the 28th of February, when he supposed his earthly

   Icareer nearly run, a few days after his last paralytic
   attack; and am the more tempted to give  it,as

                                                   a it
   relates to the mind of an individual of whom he had

   very high opinion, the late Dr. Jenner, and to
a
   topic, humble indeed in itself, yet aptly showing,a
  Iperhaps, the most remarkable features of his mind,
                                     :
   great power of observation, and quickness of ana

   logical application. My brother's words are --
      " remember, in 1809, having had long con

   versation with the late Dr. Jenner, on the habits of

                      c
                         c

390 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ianimals. He was always original and ingenious, but
  think was sometimes carried too far by the remote
Iness of his analogies. We were discussing the pos
sibility of the uses of earthworms to man.  was

more disposed to consider the dunghill and putre

faction as useful to the worm, rather than the worm

as an agent important to man in the economy of

nature; but Dr. Jenner would not allow my reason.
He said the earthworms, particularly about the time
of the vernal equinox, move much under and along
the surface of our moist meadow lands, and where

ever they move they leave a train of mucus behind

them, which becomes a manure to the plant. In this

respect they act as the slug does in furnishing ma

terials for food to the vegetable kingdom; and under

the surface, they break stiff clods in pieces, and finely

divide the soil. They feed likewise entirely on in

organic matter, and are rather the scavengers than

the tyrants of the vegetable system."

He was warm and disinterested in his friendships,

and delighted in cultivating them. Fashion did not

attract him, nor rank, nor even genius and know

ledge, so much as goodness of heart, and simplicity
of mind, and steady worth of character. His oldest
and dearest friends were thus distinguished. His

sentiments on this subject, in relation to the mar

riage state, from which they are applicable to friend

ship generally, are forcibly expressed in the following

extract from a letter which he wrote to a friend: --

   " Upon points of affection` it is only for the parties
themselves to form just opinions of what is really

necessary, to ensure the felicity of the marriage state.

IRiches appear to me not at all necessary, but com

petence, think, is; and after this more depends

upon the temper of the individual than upon personal,

              sra HUMPHRY DAVY.  891

or even intellectual circumstances. The finest spirits,

the most exquisite wines, the nectars and ambrosias

of modern tables, will be all spoilt by a few drops of

bitter extract; and a bad temper has the same effect
in life, which is made up, not of great sacrifices or
duties, but of little things, in which smiles and kind

ness, and small obligations given habitually, are what

Iwin and preserve the heart, and secure comfort."
      shall introduce here a copy of a letter from him
to the late Mr. Coleridge, without date, but sup
posed to have been written in 1802 or 1803, for which

I am indebted to their common friend, Mr. Words
Iworth. It will be acceptable, trust, to the reader,

in relation equally to the character of my brother
and his distinguished friend, and as an example of
the lofty and enthusiastic feelings of friendship of one
man of genius towards another, as well as of that
kind of exhortation which a man of genius alone
could offer and receive: --

" MY DEAR COLERIDGE,  " Twelve o'clock, Monday.

  I" My mind is disturbed and my body harassed

by many labours ; yet cannot suffer you to depart,`

without endeavouring to express to you some of the

unbroken and higher feelings of my spirit, which

have you at once for their cause and object.
   " Years have passed away since we first met ; and

your presence, and recollections with regard to you,
have afforded me continued sources of enjoyment.
Some of the better feelings of my naturehave been

elevated by your converse; and thoughts which you

have nursed have been to me an eternal source of

consolation.

              c c 41

89% MEMOIRS 0F THE LIFE 0F

. " In whatever part of the world you are, you will

often live with me, not as a fleeting idea, but as a re

collection possessed of creative energy,-- as an ima

gination winged with fire, inspirating and rejoicing.
   " You must not live much longer without giving

to all men the proof of power, which those who know

you feel in admiration. Perhaps, at a distance from

the applauding and censuring murmurs of the world,

you will be best able to execute those great works

which are justly expected from you: you are to be
the historian of the philosophy of feeling. Do not in

any way dissipate your noble nature! Do not give

up   your birthright!

    " May you soon     recover  perfect  health, --the

health of strength and happiness ! May you soon re

turn to us, confirmed in all the powers essential to

the exertion of genius! You were born for your

Icountry, and your native land must be the scene
of your activity.      shall expect the time when your
spirit, bursting through the clouds of ill health, will

appear to all men, not as an uncertain and brilliant

flame, but as a fair and permanent light, fixed, though
constantly in motion,-- as a sun which gives its fire,

not only to its attendant planets, but which sends

beams from all its  parts into all  worlds.  friend!  Do
                      attend you,   my dear
   " May blessings

not forget me: we live for different ends, and with

Idifferent habits and pursuits; but our feelings with

regard to each other have, believe, never altered.

IThey must continue; they can have no natural

death; and, trust, they can never be destroyed by

fortune, chance, or accident.            " H. DAVY."

                  sm HUMPHRY DAVY.                393

   This letter  had written  on its back, by Mr.  Cole
ridge, " This   from Davy,
                             the great chemist.   It is

Ian affectionate letter."                 `

am tempted to give another letter to Mr. Cole
Iridge, for which am also indebted to Mr. Words
worth. It relates to the death of Dr. Beddoes, and

I Iis strongly descriptive of deep friendly interest.

Had received it earlier, should have thought it

right to have inserted it in that part in which .I have
been under the necessity of vindicating him from
the extraordinary aspersion of neglect of friends,

Iand especially of his early friendships. Well do

remember the time when he received the letter com

municating the death of Dr. Beddoes, referred to

in his letter to Coleridge. He was occupied at the

--instant in a very interesting chemical inquiry; he
stopped,--  read  the letter,  noemxcolareim! e"d,Awndiththaenburrest
of grief "  Poor  Beddoes is
sumed the experiment, -- by an effort suppressing his
emotion, strongly indicated by tears: --

                                                              " December 27. 1808.

" Alas! poor Beddoes is dead! He died on Christ

mas eve. He wrote to me two letters on two suc

Icessive days, 22d and 23d. From the first, which

was full of affection and new feeling, anticipated his

state. He is gone at the moment when his mind

was purified and exalted for noble affections and

Igreat works.                                                       `

 ` " My heart is heavy.        would talk to you of your
Iown plans, which shall endeavour in every way to
Ipromote; would talk to you of my own labours,
Iwhich have been incessant since saw you, and not
Iwithout result; but am interrupted by very melan

394:    MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Icholy feelings, which, when you see this, know you

will partake of.
                 " Ever, my dear Coleridge,
                             " Very affectionately yours,

                                                    " H. DAVY."

I have heard t said tnat rank nad an undue influ

Ience over his mind, and that he courted too much

the great; believe in this there was a mistake. In

fact, the great courted him, and paid him latterly
more attention than many of his earlier acquaintances,

on whose friendship he had more claims. His inde

pendence, and little attention to the great in the way
of courting their favour, are strongly marked in the
dedications of his works. His earliest production,

his " Essays on Heat and Light," were dedicated to
Dr. Beddoes, and to the subscribers to the Pneumatic

Institution, of which he was superintendant; his next
work, his " Researches," was sent into the world

without adedication; his next, "ASyllabus of aCourse
of Lectures delivered at the Royal Institution," was
dedicated to the managers of that establishment; his
next, " Elements of Agricultural Chemistry," to his
friend Mr. Knight; the next, " Elements of Chemical

Philosophy," to Lady Davy, immediately on his mar
riage. His " Discourses to the Royal Society," which

were published at the request of the Council and many
of the
        Fellows, were  dedicated to   them  ;  his two last
works,  his " Days of                  and     Consolations
                       Fly Fishing,"        "

in Travel," to two private friends, and on the score
solely of friendship and kind feeling, " Salmonia" to
Dr. Babington, "in remembrance of some delightful

sm HUMPHRY mvy.                                                           895

days passed in his society, and in gratitude for an un
interrupted friendship of a quarter of a century," and

the " Consolations in Travel to Mr. Poole, "in re

membrance of thirty years of continued and faithful
is

                                                                     ".§

                                                        is
friendship."
   That he was much amongst persons of high rank

    not surprising, considering how his society was
sought; the attractions which belong to their best

circles; the graces, and courtesies, and refinements

which distinguish them, as well as the superiority of
mind and of information which usually to be met

with in them; and what to him latterly must have

been particularly agreeable, the freedom from all

envy, and mean and paltry feeling, which he had

sometimes to encounter amongst his fellow men of

science, and` the pretenders to scientific distinction.
   Throughout life he carefully maintained his inde

pendence, and preferred rather conferring than re

ceiving obligations: he certainly conferred greatly
more than he received. This he knew, and he felt

accordingly. He was delicately averse from, and

fastidious about, asking favours, even for his friends,
and of government, for which he frequently worked

without emolument, and too often almost without

thanks, public bodies being proverbially ungrateful.
Nor was he at all of mercenary disposition, of
I

                        a

                     Ia
which he gave many proofs, combined with disinte

rested attachment and devotion to science.

      have mentioned already how he declined certain
invitations to enter the church, with the assurance of

the strongest support.     have mentioned also, that

though he had every reason to expect eminent success
in practice as physician in London, yet considering

the sacrifice of his tastes which he should be obliged

896            MEMOIRS 01-` THE LIFE 0F

Ito make, this plan, too, of a golden fortune he soon
relinquished.  have mentioned further, that though

often urged to take out patents for discoveries which

he had made, and especially for the safety lamp, he

never yielded for a moment to these solicitations, con

sidering such practices unworthy of a man of science.

Nor was he prodigal of expense, or parsimonious ; but

lived very much according to his means, using a just
                                         "
economy.

In disposition he was eminently social and cheerful,

when in health deli.ghting in society, and always well
received, from his powers of pleasing, and amusing,

and instructing, under the guise of agreeable conver

sation. In relation to company, he was not fastidious

in taste: when he had choice, he preferred that

which is commonly pronounced the best, and which is

rarely to be found, except dispersed, out of London
--the distinguished men of science and literature of

the day; but rather than be long alone, he had no

ifobjection to common-place persons, especially

strangers, and he seldom failed to entertain them,

Iand to leave on their minds a strong impression of
talent.   remember hearing of two young officers

who accidentally fell in with him on the river side

when angling, and spending the evening with him at

an adjoining inn, where they stopped for the night:

they found their chance companion so singularly

amusing, and such a very good fellow; so copious in
good stories ; so knowing in the art of angling and in

all things relating to rivers and fish, and to the gun

as well as to the rod, _that their curiosity was ex

cited to inquire of the landlord who he was; and

their surprise was great on being informed that he
was the President of the Royal Society. He carried

sm HUMPHRY navy. `                          397

into company an animation and a desire to please, the
exertion of which required considerable effort, and

was consequently incompatible with a weak state of

health ; and therefore when his health failed him, this

was one of his motives for going abroad ; for he knew
that if he remained at home it would be difficult to
Irefrain from society entirely, and that if he indulged
in it at all he should over-exert himself.  recollect

an instance in point. Soon after we had arrived at

Ravenna, and were established in the apartments
which the Vice-Legate was so obliging as to offer

us in his palace, he received a visit from Mon

signor Spada Medici, and conversed with him with a
degree of animation and energy that surprised and

Irather alarmed me. When the Vice-Legate had

taken his leave, spoke to him of the manner in

which he had exerted himself, expressing uneasiness
as to its effect on his health. This he did not deny;
yet at the sametime he seemed to consider it as abso

Ilutely necessary that he should have so exerted him

self. " What!" he said, " could sit like a stock or

a stone, instead of endeavouring to entertain my
visitor?" He was fond of sustained conversation,

and when warmed was apt to speak at some length,

and to deliver his sentiments as they flowed sparkling

from his fancy, and often with a rich profusion of

imagery; thus having an oratorical and poetical cha.
racter, but always of a manly kind, and free from all

Ipuerilities and forced efforts at shining.

   An idea has prevailed, have been informed, that
he was irritable, impatient, and violent of temper,

and that latterly he was considered so, even by some
persons who were well acquainted with him. His

temper was always warm and ardent; but during his

898 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ibest days, believe, it was very amiable ; he was easily

pleased, and free from any morbid irritability; and

then he was unusually popular, and was surrounded

with admiring acquaintances and kind friends. Lat
terly, owing to a variety of circumstances of annoy
ance, both of a public and private kind, especially

from unreasonable persons in and about the Royal

Society, his temper was more liable to be rufiled, and

at the same time his declining health made him less

able to hear such trials; and it was under these cir

cumstances that he may sometimes have given way to

sallies of anger, which, however much provoked,

ought to have been restrained.

He was convivial in his habits, and curious in the

qualities of meats and wines; yet in the latter he

was temperate. He preferred the lighter kinds, the

French, and very rarely indeed committed any excess

I If Iin their use. Drunkenness he considered a disgusting
condition, and never saw him in it.  recollect

rightly, he told me he had been only once drunk, and

that was when a very young man.

   In dress he was rather careless, especially latterly;

consulting more health and comfort than fashion and

appearance. Before the present undress of gentle

men came into vogue, after the termination of the

war, short breeches, black silk stockings, a blue coat,

and a white waistcoat, and white neckcloth,--the

common costume of the time,---was his usual attire;

but he retained it no longer than it was common. He

was fond of broad-brimmed hats, as they afforded

protection from the sun and rain, and he generally

wore one in travelling. Iremember his wearing one
of very moderate dimensions when he came to Edin

Iburgh in 1811, soon after his marriage, at the time

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  899

was studying there; and in walking through Princes
street it attracted the impertinent notice and remark

of some young men who were following us. At that

time there was so little intercourse with foreigners,
and dress was so uniform, that any small innovation

was considered a great peculiarity.
   He sat several times, and to different artists, for his

Iportrait. There are four which have seen, and
Iwhich shall mention. The earliest, by Mr. Howard,

from which the engraving prefixed to this work is
taken, was done soon after he became professor of
chemistry, when he was about twenty-three years of

Iage. It is in the possession of his friend Mr. Poole.

   shall here transcribe a portion of a letter from

this gentleman to me, alluding to this picture, and
which is very characteristic of his feelings towards
my brother; written on the occasion of his receiving
from me a copy of the " Consolations in Travel,"

which was dedicated to him : --

" MY DEAR SIR,  " Nether Stowey, Jan.27. 1830.

I" For cannot in other terms address you, as the

Ibrother of my late dear and illustrious friend, Sir

Humphry.Davy, beg you to accept my sincere
thanks for the invaluable testimony of his regard

which you have transmitted to me, and for your

Iinteresting and obliging note accompanying it.

Ineed not say how much feel honoured by his kind

Irecollection of me, and by his making that feeling

known to the world; nor how sensible am of your

attention, by mentioning in the preface the affecting

circumstances under which the dedication was written.

400 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

I Ireceived the book last night. have read it through
with deep interest; and it will interest, and instruct,

and excite to noble purposes all who read it. It is

delightful to see his mind partaking so much of

heaven when just on its threshold.               have
                                                mean
  I" There is another gratification which        have
I Iexperienced, to which cannot help alluding;
Imy friend's recollection of me by his will.

received the legacy from Lady Davy, and have

Iappropriated it to the purchase of his portrait by

Howard. It is, remember, a striking likeness of

Iwhat he was seventeen years ago, and a good paint

ing. think myself very fortunate in being able to

Iprocure it. The picture is now on its way from

London, and will be my companion while live. Its

Ipre"sencecawnniollt  tend to make me wiser and better.
                       conclude without expressing a hope,

Ithat when any circumstance takes you to the West,
you will favour me with a visit.  am but eight

miles of excellent road from Bridgewater; and it will

give me great satisfaction to become acquainted with

Ithe brother of thefiiertd whom honoured and loved,
Iand whose death, for my own sake and for the sake of

mankind, lament.

                        I" am, &c.

                                               " THOMAS PooLE."

   In point of time, the next portrait which was
painted of him was a full-length, by the late Sir

Thomas Lawrence. It was commenced in 1810 or
1811. It is a good specimen of the manner of this

distinguished artist, and was generally considered as

an excellent likeness. Lady Davy has presented it

          sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  401

to the Royal Society; and it is now suspended in

the meeting-room of the Society, amongst the por

Itraits of its illustrious Fellows.

   The third portrait of him which have to mention

was by Mr. Lonsdale, in the dress and chair of the

President of the Royal Society. It was a picture

which pleased me; rather ideal, indeed, but full of
Icharacter, and, as thought, a most favourable like
Iness.  believe it was painted for his early friend,
Mr. Thomson, of Clitheroe in Lancashire, a gentle

man fond of chemical pursuits and chemists; por

Itraits of the most distinguished of whom he has col

lected at a considerable expense. The last shall

notice was a small picture, by Mr. Jackson, done

about 1823, and also in the dress of President. It is

now in the possession of Lady Davy. As a picture,

Ifor richness and harmony of colouring it has merit,

but do not like it as a portrait: the likeness is not

pleasing; it has not his best expression of counte

nance, and it is very deficient in a certain intellectual

cast and aspiring look which belonged to him in his

best moods of temper and thought. He, indeed, was

a very difficult subject either for the pencil or chisel,

and especially for the latter, owing to the`mobility
of his features, the varying expression of his eye and

mouth, and the impossibility of fixing, either on the

canvass or marble, the evanescent lights of mental

feeling which broke out in his countenance when

animated in conversation on subjects ofinterest.
   Bacon says, " The best part of beauty is that Which

no picture can express." The saying is most true
in relation to him. None of his portraits, in my
opinion, thoroughly did him justice, or conveyeda
voL. II.
          DD

402 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE 0F

Iperfectly accurate idea of him, and much less the

busts which were attempted. Of these have seen

I Ionly two; the one by Mr. Gibson at Rome, the other

by Mr. Joseph ; and both consider failures. believe

he sat to Mr. Chauntry; but the work, if commenced,

was never finished.
IOf his character generally
                              shall introduce a
sketch which I owe to the kindness of my brother's

oldest and most attached friend, Mr. Poole, written

in the form of a letter to Dr. Paris, who has made

use of parts of it in his work; but not, as Mr. Poole

assures me in a letter, of those parts which convey
the "substance and spirit (to his satisfaction) of
his own observations on his manners and social

qualities."

                                                  " Nether Stowey, Feb. 1. 1830.

   " DEAR SIR,
" You request me to give you any information in

my power which may contribute to the important and

interesting work which you have undertaken,--the

History of the Life of my distinguished and lamented

friend, the late Sir Humphry Davy.
   " Although the most friendly intercourse existed

I Ibetween us for thirty years, and occasionally corre

spondence by letters, fear have little else to

communicate than to bear testimony to his general

Iintellectual elevation, and to the warmth, sincerity,
and simplicity of his heart.  was first introduced to

I Ihim at the Medical Pneumatic Institution at Clifton,

in, think, 1799, where inhaled his nitrous oxide

with the usual extraordinary and transitory sensations;

but the interesting conversation, manners, and ap
pearance of the youthful operator were not transitory;

                        sm HUMPHRY DAVY.        408

nay, riveted my attention, and we soon became

friends.

   " From that time to his death, no interruption of the

most cordial goodwill and affection occurred between
us. Neither the importance of his discoveries, nor

the attentions of the exalted in rank or science,

whether as individuals or public bodies, nor the

honour conferred on him by his sovereign, made the

least alteration in his personal demeanor or in the
tone of his correspondence. No man was ever less
spoiled by the world. The truth though he con
formed to the world, and paid due deference to those
                                    is,
men and things which are deferred to by the world,
his delight was in his intellectual being. He feltit a
that he had the power of investigating the laws of
                                          I`
nature beyond that entrusted to the generality of

men; and the success with which he acted on this

impulse increased his confidence. During his last

visit to me, in November, 1827, when in very weak

state of health, he more than once said,        do not

wish to live, as far as am personally concerned; butII

  have views which could develop, if please God

to save my life, which would be useful to science and
to mankind.' Indeed, to be useful to science and to
II
mankind was that in which he gloried, to use    a
      if
                    `favourite word of his. He was enthusiastically at
                     atached to science, and to men of science; and his

heart yearned to be useful to mankind, and parti
cularly to the humblest of mankind. How often have

heard him express the satisfaction which the dis

covery of . the safety lamp gave him  !       value it,'

                                         it I`
he said, more than anything ever did: was the
                                QI
result of great deal of investigation and labour;

but my directions be attended to, will save the
                                          it

                            DD

4~04~  MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Ilives of thousands of poor men.' ` was never more
I Iaffected,' he added, ` than by a written address which

   received from the working colliers when was in
the North, thanking me on behalf of themselves and

Itheir families for the preservation of their lives.'

remember how delighted he was when he showed me

a service of plate presented to him by those very
men and their employers, as a testimony of their

gra"titSuudceh. were the motives which excited him to that

investigation which led to those various important and

Ibrilliant results which you are qualified to appreciate,

and will, doubt not, ably detail.
   " However his circumstances or situation in society

altered, his labours and zeal in the pursuit of science
were throughout his life undiminished. Not many days
before he had that attack of paralysis at Rome, from

which he never recovered, he tells me in a letter that

he was employed in the investigation of the generation
of eels. Natural history in general had been a fa
vourite subject with him throughout his protracted
illness ; for when he was with me in November,

I1897, he paid attention to that subject only; ` for,'

said he, ` am prohibited from applying, and am
indeed incapable of applying, to anything that re

Iquires severe attention.' During the same visit
Iremember his inherent love of the laboratory (if

may so speak) was manifested in a manner which
much interested me at the moment. On his visiting
with me a gentleman in this neighbourhood who
had offered to let him his house, and who has an ex

tensive philosophical apparatus, particularly complete
in electricity and chemistry, he was fatigued by the

journey ; and as we were walking round the house

                 snt HUMPHRY DAVY.     405

very languidly, a door opened, and we were in the
laboratory. He threw his eyes round the room,

which brightened in the action,--a glow came over

his countenance, and he appeared himself twentyyears
ago. He was surprised and delighted, and seemed

Ito say, ` This is the beloved theatre of my glory.'

  said, ` You are pleased.' He shook his head and

Ismiled. What from my earliest knowledge of my

admirable friend considered his most striking cha
racteristic was the quickness and truth of his appre

hension. It was a power of reasoning so rapid when

Iapplied to any subject, that he could hardly himself

be conscious of the process; and it must, think,

have been felt by him, as it appeared to me, pure in
Ituition.  used to say to him, ` You understand
I Ime before half understand myself.'
                                       recollect .on

Iour first acquaintance he knew little of the practice
of agriculture.  was at that time a considerable

Ifarmer, and very fond of the occupation. During his

visits in those days, was at first something like his

teacher in this matter; but my pupil soon became

Imy master, both in theory and practice. No man

was less a sectarian (if may use the word), in

religion, in politics, or in science. He regarded

with benevolence the sincere convictions ofany class

on the subject of religion, however they might vary
from his own. In politics he was the ardent friend of

rational liberty; he gloried in the institutions of his

country, and was anxious to see them maintained in

their purity, by timely and temperate reform. Men
of science, wherever situated, he considered as fel

Ilow-subjects of one great republic, spread over the
world.  was in London soon after he received the

letter from France, announcing that the National

                           DD3

               \

406 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Institute had awarded him the prize given by Na

poleon to the greatest discovery by the means of gal
vanism. (These discoveries are detailed in the Trans

Iactions of the Royal Society, 1807.) He showed me

the letter, and said, ` Some people say ought not

to accept this, and there have been foolish para

graphs in the papers to that effect; but if the two
countries or governments are at war, the men of
science are not,-- that would indeed be a civil war of

the worst sort.' -- ` Rather,' he added, ` we should,

through the instrumentality of men of science, soften

the asperity of national war.' Among my friend's

Iintellectual efforts, his poetical productions are worthy

of attention. Some have been published; and be

Iflieve there is a large collection in manuscript.

   " his mind had been given another direction, he,

Iprobably, would have ranked high among our poets.
   recollect hearing perhaps the greatest living poetic

genius say, ` Had not Davy been the first chemist,

he, probably, would have been the first poet of his

age.'* As to his amusements, he was latterly a
good shot, and an expert angler, --a great admirer

of old Isaac Walton. He highly prided himself on
Ithese accomplishments.
                         used to laugh at him,
Iwhich he did not like; not that under-rated them,

but it amused me to see such a man give so much
importance to these qualifications. He would say,

` It is not the sport only (though there is a great

pleasure in successful dexterity); but it is the ardour
of the pursuit, --the pure air, -- the contemplation
of a fine country, --the exercise,_all which invigor

ate the body, and excite the mind to its best efforts.'

"` The late Mr. Coleridge.

                   SIR. HUMPHRY DAVY. `             407

" He endeavoured, at different times, to purchase

an estate in this neighbourhood, on which he pro

posed to reside occasionally ` for the sake,' he said,
` of field sports in a fine country.' These amuse

ments seem to have become more and more im

portant in his estimation as his health declined, and

it was affecting to observe the efforts he made to

share them as his strength diminished. From being

able to walk without fatigue for many hours, he was,

when he came to me, in November, 1826, obliged

to have a pony to take him to the field, from which
he dismounted only in the certainty of immediate

sport. In the following year he could only take

short occasional rides to the covers, with his dogs

around him, and his servant walking by his side

carrying his gun, but which, I believe, he never

fired. During this last visit (November and Decem
ber, ISQ7) his bodily infirmity was very great, and

his sensibility was painfully alive on every occasion.
Unhappily he had to sustain the affliction of the

sudden death of Mr. K., the son of a friend whom

he highly valued; and though this afflicting event
was by the considerate attention of Lady Davy first

communicated to me, to be imparted to him, with
`
                   to avoid his being suddenly      shocked,
 every precaution

yet it was many days before he could resume his

Iusual spirits, feeble as they were, and wonted occu

pation. On his arrival he said, ` Here am, the

Iruin of what was 1' But, nevertheless, the same

activity and ardour of mind continued, though di

rected to different  objects.       hours  in  the  morning
                     himself three
   " He employed

on his `Salmonia,' which he was then writing. He

would then take a short walk (which he accomplished

                     D D 4'

408 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

Iwith difiiculty), or ride; and after dinner used to

read to him some amusing book. We were much

interested particularly by Southey's ` Life of Nelson.'

` It would give Southey,' he said, ` great pleasure
if he knew how much his narrative affected us. In

the evenings Mr. and Mrs. W. (he had long known
W.) frequently came to make a rubber at whist. He
was averse to seeing strangers; but on being shown

the drawings in natural history of a friend of mine
of great talent, Mr. Baker of Bridgewater, he was

anxious to see him, and was much pleased with his

company, and suggested to him various matters for

investigation concerning fish, particularly the eel.

What pleasure would it give him, if he were now

Ialive, to learn the interesting result of these sug

gestions, which will, hope, soon be known to the

public!                                                                             `

  I I" know not that  can add more to fulfil the ob
Iject proposed to myself, which was not to speak
of Sir Humphry Davy's discoveries in science, his

various literary productions, or his able and upright
conduct as a member of public bodies; these are

before the public, and evince his greatness: but it

was to show that he was not only one of the greatest
but one of the most benevolent and amiable of men.

The extracts from our correspondence, which follow

Ithese remarks, will elucidate the points of character

which have touched. It has been with this view

Ithat have admitted some otherwise very trivial

matter, and have included sentiments and the expres

Ision of feelings respecting myself, which, though

value as my best treasure, nothing but the wish to

make him known as he was could induce me to sub

mit to the public. You are at perfect liberty to select

sm HUMPHRY DAVY.  409

from those extracts, and to shorten or disregard al

together this narrative.

                     I" am, dear Sir, yours,

                                                  " THOMAS PooLE.
" To Dr. Paris, Dover Street,

               London."

  I have now brought this work to a conclusion.

It has been said by Mr. Babbage, in his " Essay on

the Decline of Science in England," that we can ex

pect eulogy only, not biography, from contemporary

writers. His words are, referring to Dr. Wollaston
and my brother, then recently dead, " Until the warm
feelings of surviving kindred and admiring friends

shall be cold as the grave, from which remembrance

vainly recalls their cherished forms invested with all
the life and energy of recent existence, the volumes
of their biography must be sealed ; their contem

poraries can expect only to read their éloge." This
opinion, so broadly and authoritatively promulgated, is

neither consistent with experience, nor accordant with

JMr. Babbage's own sentiments as expressed in the pre

face to his book, in which he approves of Dr. ohnson's
opinion, " that the famous maxim ` de mortuis nihil
nisi bonum,' appears to savour more of female weak
ness than of manly reason." And that it is not con
sistent with experience, we have too many proofs in

the calumnies which have been poured on the dead,

the distinguished dead, by those who either enter

tained hostile feelings towards them while` living, or

who sold their pen to a party actuated by hostile
feeling. Men at all times must necessarily write
(supposing they are honest, and not under the in

410 MEMOIRS or THE LIFE or

fluence of an unworthy bias) as they think and feel ;
and consequently contemporary biography will be

either indulgent and laudatory, or severe and censo

rious, according to the feelings and sentiments exist

ing in the minds of the writers respecting the indi

vidual they describe. Consult, for instance, a Life of

Luther or of Calvin, written by a Roman Catholic

a few years after their decease, and another by a Pro

testant of the same period,--how totally different
                                             *
are  the  men  represented                      These are  extreme
                                           !

cases; but in all other instances the motives are

more or less similar, and the effect must correspond.
The maxim " de mortuis nil nisi bonum,"
                                                   is it   as

were, the generous sense of mankind on the manner        is
                                                            is,
in which the dead ought to be treated, and intended
as check on slander. Like everything else which                   it
it is

     a
                        aa

                                       is
   good, this maxim may be abused, especially when
   produces merely " vague reports and barren eulo

gies."T That man not free from human infirmities
must always be taken for granted. To hold up the
infirmities of man of genius to observation neither

necessary nor useful; on the contrary, injurious, as
tending to lower him as an example in the minds of

posterity, and diminish the influence of his name.

Almost from the nature of biography,                       appears to

me that ought to be laudatory. Who competent
          it

   * Beza, the admiring biographer of the latter, thus concludes the
history of his life perfectly in accordance with the above remark:
"Ego historiam vita: et obitus ipsius, cujus spectator sedecim annos
fui, boné. fide persecutus, testari mihi optimo jure posse videor, longe
pulchenimum vitae Christianaa tum vitae, tum mortis exemplum in hot:

homine cunctis propositum fuisse, quod tam facile sit calumniari, quam
diflicilefuerit cemulari." (Joan. Calvini vita Theod. Beza, Genevem
sis Ecclesia: Ministro accurate Descripta. Hanovim, 1597.)

         Bacon.
`l'
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                             -

            sra HUMPHRY DAVY.                 411

            e life of a contemporary, but one inti
            minted with him ? And who would under

         ibour from any but mercenary or other
         .otives, excepting an admirer of him,--ex

         brief, a friend ? It is only the friend who

         It to the task; he who has enjoyed his in

         ! confidence ; who knows not only his

         t his views and principles; and has, as it

         ;he advantage of being behind the scenes

         ne human being can be to another) of the
         2. My situation in relation to my brother,

_.-_. ,  Ir and proud to confess, has been very much

         wise would not have attempted the present
work. In writing
I                 have had chiefly to regret

                 is

                it iIt,
                                           a
                            if
that have so often been under the necessity of vin

dicating his character, traduced by his contempora

ries, and more especially by his biographer Dr. Paris,

whose book composed as to offer an immediate

refutation of the opinion of Mr. Babbage already re
ferred to. The faults of friend, the trifling faults,

those which are passed over in the estimate of living

character, and which would be difiicult to record

in friendly biography,--are like the shades of.a pic

ture, not detracting from, but brightening the whole.

As shades, no one can duly appreciate their effect

but he who  thorough master of the subject, and
            is
              aa

                                      it
                                           it

                                                      is

                                      I

                                                                             is
to whom they may appear not the least admirable

part of the painting; and so, perhaps, am some

times disposed to think (and may be charitable to
adopt the conclusion), that in human life what

considered as shade (provided                 free from moral

taint) may to superior intelligences appear rather as
an excellence than defect, derived from some high

principle, the detection of which has escaped common

4.12 MEMOIRS or sm HUMPHRY nxvr.

observation, and which in the individual character
has been productive of good.

  IOne more tribute from a friend (now no more)

cannot refrain from having the satisfaction of insert
ing, more especially as he was acquainted with my
brother almost as long as Mr. Poole; and being re
sident in London, and in the same circle of society,
was always on terms of intimacy with him. I- allude
to the late Mr. Sotheby, one of the most amiable and
respectable of men. In a little poem of his, written
in 1833, in compliment to the living men of science

Iof the time, he thus apostrophises his friend; give

only a part, that relating to his mind : --

       " Thou ! from whose lip the word that freely flowed

            With all a poet's inspiration glowed,
              Lamented friend, farewell ! Thou liest at rest,
           A world of wonders buried in thy breast!
            High aims were thine, ---- all nature to explore,

               Make each new truth developed gender more,
              And upward traced through universal laws
              Ascend in spirit to the Eternal Cause.
               Such was thy ardent hope, thy view sublime.
              But ah ! cut off in manhood's daring prime,
              Thou liest where genius leans upon thy tomb,
              And, half eclipsed, mourns thy untimely doom.`"'

  ' Lines suggested by the third meeting of the British Association

for the Advancement of Science, held at Cambridge in June; 1883,

By the late VV. Sotheby, Esq., F.R.S.

                  INDEX.

Acms,--their action on the chlorate    of  potassa, noticed, i. 495.
Agricultural chemistry, elements of,
                                      --   notice of, i. 340-358.

Alchemists,-- character of, i. 369.
Alps, Austrian,---notice of, ii. 98.
                                      on salts of,--especially  on the deli
Ammonia,--notice  of experiments
                                                                                 `
quescent carbonate, i. 111.
, researches on, i. 399. Amalgam from, i. 400.
Analogies on,--" between the undecompounded substances, and on the

constitution of acids, i. 497.
Atomic theory,--notice of, i. 439.
Attr21ction,--notice of hypothesis that chemical and electrical attraction

        depend on the same cause, i. 330.
Azote,--notice of a detonating compound of, i. 458.
Babington, Dr.,--notice of, ii. 284.
Bacon,--his philosophical character, i. 229.                          notice
Bakerian lecture,--" on some chemical agencies of electricity,"

---,of, i. 330.   2d. " On some new phenomena of chemical changes
produced by electricity, particularly the decomposition of the fixed
      alkalies, i. 379.
Banks, Sir Joseph,--mention of, ii. 127.
Beddoes, Dr.,--description of, i. 61.

Berthollet, --mention of, i. 469.
Berzelius, M.,--brief notice of, ii. 216.
Boracic acid,--its decomposition described, i.
Brownrigg, Lady,--anecdote from, respecting     409.   H. Davy, i. 270.   11.
Buddle, Mr.,--his testimony to the efiicacy of  Sir     safety lamp, ii.
                                                  the

        15. 53, 54. 58.                                         undecom
Bennet, Mr.,--his electrical discoveries, i. 322.
Carbon, forms of,--researches on, i. 483.
Cardew, Rev. Dr.,----extract of a letter from, i. 20.
Cavendish, Mr.,--his philosophical character, i. 221.
Chemistry,--commencen1ent of its study, i. 42.
Chemistry, agricultura1,--definition of, i. 340.
Chlorine,---account of experiments in proof of its being

       pounded, i. 414.
Christian, Prince,--mention of, ii. 210.
Coal,---observations on the origin of, i. 243.

414 INDEX.

Colours used by the ancients,--an account of experiments on, i. 495.
"CoCnodnuscotlaintigonpsowinerT,--ranvoetli,c"e   of electrical  experiments on, ii. 147.
                                                 a posthumous     work,-account of, ii.    369

385.

Copper sheathing of ships,--notice of researches on its preservation,

ii. 172.
   , examples of the success of protectors, ii. 185.

Cornwall,--its state in the middle of the last century, i. 8.
               , geology of, i. 294.

Coulson, MI-.,--his opinion of Sir H. Davy, i. 57.

Crystals,--notice of experiments on fluids in their cavities, ii. 155.
Cuvier, Baron,--mention of, i. 469.
Dalton, Mr.,--remarks on his atomic hypothesis, i. 441.
Dibdin, Rev. Dr.,--notice of Sir H. Davy's illness in 1807.
Du Fay,--his electrical discoveries, i. 314.
Durham, Earl of,-address relative to the safety lamp, ii. 45.

E---art-h-s,,  alkaline,---their metallic basis,  discovery      of, i. 395.
               proper,---their bases, i. 396.

Eel, generation of,---conjectures respecting, ii. 241.

Electric fluid,---ear1y speculations respecting, i. 72.
Electrical science,--sketch of history of, i. 308-334.

Electro-chemical action in the economy of nature, i. 359.

_-,Electro_rnagnetism,--notice of researches on, ii. 144.
                                description of peculiar phenomenon of, ii. 158.
Electricity,--mention of experiments on, in connection with nervo-mus

cular action, 234.

Element defined, i. 234.

_-_---Elements of bodies,--opinions concerning, i. 403.
               of chemical philosophy,----notice of, i. 437--455.

Essays on heat and light,--notice of, i. 68-84.

Euchlorine,--discovery of, i. 417.
Experimenting,--Sir H. Davy's method of`, i. 253.

Explosions in mines,--notice of, ii. 3.

Fire-damp,---notice of, ii. 4.

Flame,--researches on, ii. 26. 31. 34.

Fluoric combinations,--researches on, i. 418.

Franklin, Dr.,--his electrical discoveries, i. 317.

Friendship,--extract from essay on, i. 31.

Galvani,----his discovery of a new animal electrometer, i. 322.

Gases,--notices of the liquefaction of, ii. 160.
Gauss, M.,--brief notice of, ii. 216.

Gilbert, mention of, i. 309.
           , Extracts from his treatises De Magnete and from his Philo

sophia nova, i. 301.

Glommen, river,--notice of`, ii. 201.

Grey, Stephen,--his electrical discoveries, i. 313.

Gulval Carne,--inscription for, i. 18,

Guyton de Morveau,--mention of, i. 468.

          INDEX.  415

l`ll|l."Heat,--reflections on, i. 236.

Heisenger and Berzelius,--their electro-chemical discoveries, i. 328.
Higgins, Dr. Bryan, and Mr. Wm., their atomic views referred to,

        i. `443.

Humboldt,---mention of, i. 469.
Hydrogen,--conjecture of its metallic nature, i. 74.
Ignition without inflammation,--particulars respecting, ii. 33.
lllness,--particulars of Sir H. Davy's at Rome, ii. 348.

Instincts of animals,--observations and reflections on, ii. 292.
Iodine,--researches on, i. 464.

        --, further researches on--note on its medicinal efi`ects, i. 480.
        -- and oxygen,--a solid compound of, noticed, i. 495.
Ireland, tour in,--fragments of a journal of, i. 274-284.
Jenner, Dr.,--mention of a conversation with, ii. 389.
Journey,--notices of, through France into Italy, ii. 222--229.

             from Rome to Geneva,--mention of, ii. 357--364.
Journal of a Tour from Italy into Southern Austria, and from thence

       to England,--fragments of, ii. 247--282.
Kleish, Von,---his discovery of the Leyden phial, i. 315.
Klopstock,--mention of his tomb, ii. 212.
Knight, Mr. Andrew,--his opinion of Sir Humphry Davy, i. 146.
Laboratory of Royal Institution,--mention of, i. 253.
Lamp, safety,--how discovered, ii. 6.

                   , description of, ii. 7.
                   , communications respecting, from practical men, ii. 11.
La Place,--mention of, i. 470.
Lecture, introductory for the courses of 1805, at the Royal Institution,
      i. 156.

---,, introductory to the chemistry of nature, i. 169.
           , introductory geological, i. 182.
              extracts from, i. 204.

            , on the progress of electrical science, i. 308.
           , extract from, on the decomposition of the fixed alkalies,

-----i. 3---80. -------, on the cause of volcanoes, i. 397.

Letter-- Vide L. 2.
Letter of Sir H. Davy to his mother,--extract from, i. 14.

                                    to the same, i. 65.
                                 to a young friend,----extract from, i. 104.
                                    to his mother, i. 105.

                                    to Mr. Tonkin, i. 107.
                                    to his mother, i. 132.
                                to Mr. Poole, i. 140.
                 ------------ to Mr. Clayfield, i. 140.
                                    to the same, i. 143.
                                 to Mr. Purkis, i. 144.

                                    to his youngest sister, i. 14-5.
                                    to Mr. Underwood, i. 148.

                                 to his mother, i. 151.

416 mnnx.

Letter of Sir H. Davy to the same, i. 267.

                                 to the same, i. 268.

                                 to Sir Thomas Bernard, i. 272.
                                 to Mr. Poole--extract from, i. 292.
                                 to the same, i. 293.
                                 to his mother, i. 429.
WU`                              to his brother, i. 431.
                                 to his mother, i. 433.
                                 to his brother, i. 433.

                                 to the same, i. 434.

                                 to the same, i. 457.

                                 to the same, i. 459.
                                 to his mother, i. 460.

                     ------------ to the same, i. 463.

                                 to his brother, i. 481.

                                 to his mother, i. 501.

--I-------                         to the same, i. 507.
            of Mr. Buddle to Sir H. Davy, --- extract from, Ii. 2.
            of Mr. Peile to the same,--extract from, ii. 18.
            of Mr. John Morris to John Simmons, Esq., ii. 20.
            of Sir H. Davy to the Earl of Durham, 42.
            of  Mr.                                        ii. 53.
                     Buddle  to  Sir  Cuthbert   Sharp,
                             to  Dr.  Davy, ii.  54.
                         --

                             to the same, ii. 58.

            of Sir H. Davy to his mother, ii. 63.

                                 to the same, ii. 97.
                             to his brother, ii. 139.
~----------------_           to the same, ii. 140.

----~--------- to the same, ii. 142.

                                 to his mother, ii. 145.
------------~-------_--_ to Mr. Poole, ii. 154.
                                     to his brother, ii. 156.
                                 to Mr. Edmund Davy, ii. 165.

---------------                  to his brother, ii. 166.
                                 to the same, ii. 175.

                                    to his mother, ii. 188.

----------_--- to his eldest sister, ii. 219.
-----------_-- to Mr. Poole, ii. 228.
                                 to Mr. Gilbert, ii. 264.

_--_._----_ to his brother, ii. 309.
                                     to the same, ii. 310.
                                 to the same, ii. 330.

                                 to the same, ii. 335.

----------- to the same, ii. 336.

                                    to the same, ii. 337.

--------_ to Mr. Poole, ii. 339.
                                 to his brother, ii. 345.

                                 to his brother, ii. 346.

                                 to Mr. Coleridge, ii. 391.

                                   INDEX.                                                                                                   417

Letter of Sir H. Davy to the same, ii. 393.
         of Mr. Poole to Dr. Davy, ii. 399.

------------------ to Dr. Paris, ii. 402.

Light,_observations on, as a chemical agent, i. 448.

Lime,--note on its use in agriculture, i. 352.

Magnetism,-- hints for experiments on, ii. 233.

Manures, fossil, ---explanation of use, i. 352.
MMMSaanSteu.,rreiaHsl,eisrmc---u,la--rnueluermera,esloan--tiivnegnotitoniceufsaeovof,oufra,noid.f,o3f4i.9e2.x5pe. riments
                                                                                                                             to unrol, ii. 118.

MMeisttasp,hy--sicsaol mesatgupadaiirnetssict,,u--lai.rs2m6er.enstpioenctionfg, ,  i. 38.
                                                                                    ii. 100.

"MoMnousmeesn,"ts---,  public, --appeal in favour of,                                                           i.  212.     i.  124--129.
                       plan and fragments of a poem                                                                 called,
Mount St. Michael's, -- notice of, i. 17.                                                                       so

Muriatic acid, --researches on, i. 412.
Museum, British, -- remarks on,
Newton, -- remarks on, i. 231.                                                     342.

          further mention of, i. 313.

Nicholson and Carlisle,--their electro-chemical discovery of the decom

Nitroupsosoitxioidne,o--f waetxepre, riim. e3n2t7s. on breathing, i. 94-101.
Nomenclature, chemical, -- remarks on, i. 451.
Norway, -- extracts of a journal respecting, ii. 191.

Note books,-- extracts from, i. 22. 38. 57. 90. 112. 369.
("ErOs'tDeodn,a--gh,umfeuser,nthtioethnreeolxaftsrhtaicsotsfgtrfhereaotm;"d, isacnov6Ier4ri.ys,h
                                                                                                                 story, ii.  314----330.
                                                                                                                ii. 143.

          , brief notice of, 216.

Ombre chevalier,-- particulars respecting, ii. 235.
Oxygen, _reflections on, i. 238.
Penzance, -- state of, and changes in, i. 1 1.
Perugia, --notice of scenery near, i. 486.
PPPlihaeoytsrfagaeirMn, eaM,l--ar,d.--,is--cnoovhteiicsreyreomoffa,arknnsoattiocuenradlt,hcei.oas4al1fge7at.ys
                                                                                                                flame  at,   i. 494.
                                                                                                                lamp,  ii.   22.

Pliny, --remarks on, i. 228.
Pneumatic Institution, -- notice of, i. 60.
          :--
Poetry"                                                                                                                                    i. 63.
      "   Sons of Genius," i. 34.                                                                                                         124
      "
     "    The Tempest ;" an extract from, i. 40.
       "  Lines to Mrs. Beddoes," i. 62.
      "   Lines on the Infant Daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Beddoes,"

          Lines, supposed to be written on visiting home," i. 110.
          Moses,"_plan and fragments of a poem so called, i.

"            129.      written  in the Coach, Dec. 1803,                                                               passing   from     Bath to
          Lines

          Clifton," i. 301.
VOL. II.
                                   EE

418        .                         INDEX.

Poetry"  (continued)  :--   Arokil,"  i.  302.
         On Mucrish
                       and

     """"""""""""""""OTTMTOBFTWOCVTCToohnhaoahaooannrneenrueinnttAraFkacattottathhMeaisClvSnhruyeedBniaaeaeyroesoinldh,sb,bueanI"F"fitimleganit,naesile"trafog',inaichtmesr.".udetu,rei-",a.r,,o4fl4LHT""inV.r4a8i7ReReeiti.d788mhia3eaesi.y7...ioln,4cw6i.p".to3n734lyov40ee3.7oeni7,3P,.i5""rfo.2i.y.hnPf.iie1e..mtr1f,h"r444seoB87t.miui93rM.mt..h4ian,-7"ddd4aai,..y"n,g4"ie9i.r0oi9.u. 5s3.6I4lln. ess," i. 890.

     PL"""ionLOTeeohtnsiercdat"hlEBeaOfyrgadnrlgoeemanAst,,seh""hntboiswin,f.rrLin1twoth5erra7nid.tmtewBnyPhrliaalostcnte,t"hl,i"eviiiniBi..ga,11th66s98..  of Lucca,   115.

                                                                                                                                                            168.

     Lines, written at Copenhagen, 215.

     ---------Fragments, dated Ulswater, ii. 217.
     " On       Fall      Ravenna, ii. 280.
           the        of the Traun," ii. 260.

Pola, --notice of, ii. 99.
Political reflections, ii. 82.
Poole, Mr., his account of Sir H. Davy, ii. 402.
Potassium and sodium,--their discovery, i. 382.
Priestley,--his philosophical character, i. 228.
Purkis, Mr., -- his mention      of Sir H.
Religion, -- early reflections   on, i. 27.                                                       Davy's early                                              lect/ures,  i. 137.

         - Christian compared with other religions, i. 366.

         speculations on, 76.
         - reflections on,
                                89.
Report of Select Committee of the House of Commons, --extract from,
                                 ii. 60.
"       respecting safety lamp,   Philosophical,                                                  chiefly                                                   concerning        Nitrous
   Researches, Chemical and

     Oxide and its Respiration,"---notice of, i. 93-111.
Rome, scenery in the neighbourhood of,--noticed, ii. 354.

R"--oSca--klsm, opnseiraicm,onaodrrayr,Dy--,arye--sflreeocmftiFaolrnykss Fiosonhnintthghe,e"iirr  origin, i. 240.

                                                                                                  --origreinm,ari.ks24on1,--ii2. 4248.7.
              , extracts from, ii. 288.
Science, experimental, -- some of its advantages, i. 208.

         influence on the female character, i. 210.

         doctrines of, -- remarks on, i. 213.

                                               INDEX.                                                                            . 419

Science,  --enighmisasphoilfo,so--phirceaml arckhsaroanc,teir.,                                216.
Scheele,                                                                                        i. 225.

Shakspeare compared with Milton, i. 371.

Silex,--experiments on the silex of the epidermis of certain plants, i. 85.

-----,Snipe, solitary, (Scol0pax rectivolans, Lin.) --notices of, ii. 237.

Society, Royal,--extracts of address to, 128.
                 note respecting,                                                              136.

Somma,-- notice of, i. 503.
Sotheby, Mr., -- lines on Sir H. Davy, ii. 412.
Southey, Mr., -- relation of anecdote by, i. 56.
SSptuedcikebsa, c--ker,pr--opoasneedcdpolaten
                                               by Sir  Walter                                          Scott  respecting,  i. 507.
                                               of, i.  22.

SSSwuuplapellhrosuwtirst,i,o--n--,res--cuolntnjseoctteoufrreeesxprpeeescrpitmiencegtn,intsgi.  on, i.  408.   and  high  flight  in  connec
                                                                                                       low
                                                                                               149.
                                                                                               their

tion with weather, ii. 244.

Tanning, --experiments on, mention of, i. 336.

TTTooyrmrpobel,,do----, --einxstercxartcirptastcitofsrnofmroonmjoSuiSrrnirHal.Hi.Dna,Dvai.yv'4ys,'9s2p. a3p6e7r .on, ii. 333.
Underwood, Mr., --mention of, i. 147.

Vacuum, --notice of experiments on, in relation to imponderable sub

-_stances,       150.

Vauquelin, mention of, i. 468.
             --
Vegetation,  --  effect of on the atmosphere, i.                                                              77.
Volcanoes,       hypothesis respecting, i. 397.

             notice of researches on, ii. 122.
Volta, -- his great electrical discovery the foundation
i. 323.                                                                                                                  of a new science,

mention of, i. 491.
Voltaic battery of 2000 double plates,--efl'ects of, noticed, i. 446.
VWoanlshK,leMisrh.,,----hihsisdidsicsocvoevreyry
                                                  of the Leyden phial,                                             i. 315.       i. 820.
                                                   of the electricity of                                           the torpedo,

Watt, Mr. Gregory,--notice of, i. 45.

                       , letter respecting his death, i. 142.

Wherry mine, --mention of, i. 45.

Wollaston, Dr., -- notice of, i. 258.

Young, Dr. Thomas,--notice of, ii. 365.

                                                      THE EN D

                                                               Lounou :
                                               Printed by A. SPOTFISWOODF,

                                                        New-SLreet»Squarc.

                                  ERRATA.

                                  VOL. I.

Page  286.  line  13. for " Benthollet" read " Berthollet."
      888.                 "                 read " county."
      889.  line  16. for  "      country"   "reialidcat"edim" prreoavdin"g.s"ilicated.'
      419.  line  23. for         improvin"
            line
                  1. from  bottom, for

                                  VOL. II.

      16.   line  18n1o. .tfeof,orrfo""r c"couuRrrsreeep""orreeaad"d r"e"acdcuaru"rseeRn.e"t.p"ort."
      59.   foot  12. for " melsh"    read "
      79.   line  3. of note, for "  ratiore"

      111.  line                  " above"     Wreeadlsh"."ratione."
      142.  line                  on" read

      182.  line  14.  afoftrer"            o"miint .t"he  comma.
      214.  line  10.


