Memoir of William Vaughan, Esq. F.R.S.

Vaughan, William, 1752-1850.
London : Smith, Elder, & Co., 1839.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/loc.ark:/13960/t12n69v6b

                                          Public Domain
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address.
         MEMOIR

                                                           OF

WILLIAM VAUGHAN, Esq. F.R.S

                                             WITH

                     MISCELLANEOUS PIECES

                                       RELATIVE TO

       DOCKS, COMMERCE, ETC.

                      Nisi utile est quod facimus, stulta est gloria.

                                  LONDON :
         SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 65, CORNHILL.

                                                    1839.
                          LONDON :

MUKHANT, PRINTER, I NC. RAM-COURT, I ENC1I I Rl H-STREET.

                                                LC Control Number
                                                 tmp96 031987
                 CONTENTS.

                                                           PAGE

Introduction                         иииии           ииии    1

Memoir        и                          иии*ии              4

State of the Port of London in 1793                  * и 23

Tides                                                        36

Russian Correspondence                                       40
London as it was in 1 793                                    42

Metropolis and Port of London in 1836                        43

Commerce and England                                         51

Inland Navigation and Canals                               и 72
On Ship-building and the Preservation of Timber и и               81

Royal Exchange Assurance                                     91
Address to British Seamen on the Mutiny at the Nore и и и и  98

Lord Duncan's Victory                            и 102

Savings' Banks -- London Provident Institution               105
Letter to Samuel Rogers, Esq. and his replies
                                                             Ill

Letter to William Maltby, Esq. and reply                     114

Poor Richard exemplified                         иии 115

The Duke of Sussex's Address to the Royal Society, 30th

       November, 1837                                        119

Professors Bowditch and Hassler и и и и                      123

Missionaries                                                 126

Russian Correspondence continued                             130

Reasons in favour of the London Docks, printed in 1795, and
                               reprinted in 1796 and 1797.
                  PREFACE.

Between the years 1793 and 1800, I wrote and

printed several Tracts on Docks, with Hints on
Commerce, and on other subjects, to promote the
formation of Docks and other accommodations for
the Port of London. They were generally circu-
lated, but were not designed for publication.

   As many of these objects have been long com-
pleted, and as copies of some of these tracts still
remain on hand, it may not be thought uninteresting
to make as complete a collection of them as can
now be accomplished, and they will be found in the
Appendix. Some few of the smaller tracts relating
to the Docks being out of print, and being at this
time of little value, it has not been thought worth
while to reprint them.

    Having had some leisure, and wishing to make

myself useful to society, I associated early in life

with some of those Committees whose objects were
congenial with my own feelings, and as many of
them had been sanctioned and adopted by the
public, they floated down the stream of time by
Nl PBB1 ACE.

their own merits, and those who voluntarily ten-
dered their services found their labours amply

repaid by their success.
    These views and pursuits induced me to procure

from Captain Woodward a Narrative of his sutler ii
at Celebes (which is noticed in the Memoir, page

0), and which I published with an Introduction and

an Appendix, containing many well-authenticated
details of escapes from shipwrecks under great
 hardships; shewing the importance of discipline,
 union, confidence, and perseverance in the midst

 of scenes of danger, distress, and abstinence.*
     The Memoir, Introduction, and Miscellaneous

 Part, with some few exceptions, were written
 within the last two years, and under great disad-
  vantages, as I have been obliged to employ an

  иamanuensis, owing to an imperfection in my sight.
      1 am indebted to my friend Mr. Alexander for

  proposing as a frontispiece a sketch drawn by his
  son, the Uev. 1). Alexander, from my bust in his
  pOBteMM, executed by Sir F. Chantrey in the
   year 1*11. I take this opportunity of thankm-
  hun for his kindness; and though it II the fashion

 \ t\w copies ofth'u work may itill be had of Messrs. Smith,

Elder, ft I  CornhHI.
PREFACE.  Vll

 in these times for authors to give their own like-
nesses as an introduction to their works, yet as

they often outlive them, I wish to build my hopes

on a surer foundation, by presuming to present this
little collection with diffidence to the public, rely-
ing on their kindness and candour for its favourable

reception.
    The Introduction and Miscellaneous Parts to this

little collection may be deemed rather as sketches
or observations on events that have risen out of the

temper and spirit of the times we live in, than as
a history or memoir of a private individual ; and

if they should prove interesting and useful to others,

my great objects will be accomplished.

    The Introduction and Miscellaneous Part of these

little Tracts having been printed off, it is too late

to do otherwise than insert the following excellent
sentiments of Mr. Justice Park, extracted from the
" National Gazette," published at Philadelphia,

22d February, 1839, which has just been received,

and is as follows : --" The late eminent Judge,
" Sir Allan Park, once said at a public meeting in
" the City of London, -- ' We live in the midst of
" ' blessings till we are utterly insensible of their
nil iipb u i..

     1 greatness and of the source from which they

   1 ' How. We speak of our civilization, our arts,
  ! ' our freedom, our laws, and forget bow Ian
 u < share of all is due to Christianity. Blot Chris-

     ' tianity out of the page of man's history, and
 u < what would his laws have been, what his civili-
 a i zation? Christianity is mixed up with our very
 " ' being and our daily life ; there is not a familiar
 " ' object around us which does not wear a different

      aspect because the light of Christian hope is on
 (I i it. Not a law which does not owe its truth and

       g< ntleness to Christianity ; not a custom which
" * cannot be traced in all its holy and healthful
"  parts to the Gospel.'"

   If it had been seen in time, this interesting para-

graph would have natu rally appeared at page 126
of the Miscellaneous Part, where the introduction of

Christianity is stated to have contributed so lamb

to the religious and moral improvement and happi-
DeSS of society.

   These admirable sentiments o( the late Sir Allan
Park require no comment, as they speak for them-

selves.

                             WILLIAM YAUGHAN.

/.on, /on, \th April, L839.
        INTRODUCTION,

When a man has entered the eighty-seventh year of his
age, it is time for him to revert to events that have passed ;
and to put his house in order, preparatory to his going
hence to be no more in this state' of probation.

    Under the warning admonitions of age, the following
suggestions present themselves ; --That men ought to value
life more from its importance and utility, when conducted

upon correct principles, than from its longevity. If men

in the enjoyment of health, strength, and the use of their
faculties, were, during the summer and autumn of life,

zealously to improve the talents committed to their care to
the best advantage, they would secure much comfort and
happiness for themselves, as well as for the rising genera-
tion, and would receive great consolation during the infir-
mities which generally accompany old age.

   It may be observed in general, that men spend a third,

a fourth, or a fifth part of their lives in infancy and educa-
tion, and that there are but few characteristic events in
either of these stages ; but when both these periods are
combined, they may be considered as the two stepping
                     l VI ROD! CTK

ladders to die Btage of life, where men often form their
own characters and stations in every class of society, and

where they frequently rise by their talents, industry, and

perseverance, to wealth, honour, rank, and power.

   It will be found that talents and industry so happily

adapt themselves to the common concerns of life, as

frequently to raise men from the lower stations to the

higher ; that knowledge is a power of the first magnitude,
and discovers the great laws of nature, from astronomy,

the parent of knowledge, down to chemistry and minera-

logy.

The laws of nature, though simple, are grand and

sublime; and the more they are discovered, the nearer

they will approach each other; but when cemented by

combinations, there is no knowing to what extent they
may promote the comforts and happiness of man.

Accidents have also given birth to important d

which, when matured by experiments and caleulat!

are often productive of great and important ad van

scientific and practical objects, that contribute to the i

venience, comforts, and happineSf   : and t!

discoveries, when united with others, increase their utility.

    There are few men whose names are more familiar to

oar ears in tins country, as the promoters of knows
run 1 science, than Bacon, Boyle, Newton, HaUey, Her-
schell, Franklin, Priestley, Watt, Davy, Arkwright, and

Peel.                and die        of some oi' that
   The observations
                     t<> the change of the Old to the  &
tinguished una led

Style m 1752 ; an art that ha       I a greater revolution

m the civil concerns of this country, without bloodshed,

than many of its w
INTRODUCTION.        3

    Early in the era of the New Style, the march of intel-
 lect had been making rapid strides, almost as quick as
 thought ; owing perhaps much of the rapidity of its pro-
 gress to the combination of the various branches of know-
ledge and science, and the application of machinery to
 the different arts. After the effervescence of the moment

has subsided, it is hoped some will shoot out into new

 discoveries and ramifications, producing endless varieties
conducive to usefulness and happiness. About the period
alluded to, England began to increase in population, agri-
culture, civilization, arts, manufactures, and commerce.

    After these digressions, it may be time to resume the
consideration of the great importance and utility of human
life ; and perhaps one of the best means of obtaining that
knowledge is for a man to ask himself whether he would

Iwish to live his life over again ; and at my age may be

allowed to take the liberty of stating, that on the whole,

having enjoyed health, strength, and the use of my facul-
ties, with many friendships and attachments, though not

without many trials, I think 1 should have little hesitation

in making my choice in the affirmative, wishing some

things, however, undone, and others improved.

               b "Z
NARRATIVE.

   With these sentiments, it can hardly be expected that 1
should give the details of the birth, parentage, and life of
a private individual. With all the allurements that are

attached to biography, people are too apt to descend to

the frolics of a school-boy, or the eccentricities of a man,

which are little interesting to the public ; and it would be

better, I conceive, for a man's ladings to die with him, and

his virtues to live after him.

Suffice it to say, my parents were of good families, and

much respected; they had eleven children; two died when

young, and the remainder lived long after their parents,

and were respected in their different stations of life.
   As to myself, 1 was the second son of Samuel Yaughan,

Esq., long a merchant in London, and Sarah, the daugh-
ter of Benjamin Hallowed, Esq., of Boston, Massachosi

1 was born on the 22d of Sept. 1752, a month and a year

ever memorable in this country for the alteration of the

Style; and, if it is of any further importance, my birthday

i- remarkable from the coronation of George III. having

taken place on its anniversary in 1763, which, as Long
he lived, was kept with public rejoicing

   My parent- were desirous of giving their children a

and useful edueation ; and my excellent mother pa

attention to then- health, religion, morals, and temper.

I was placed at an early age at Mr. NeV<           chool

in Hackney, (oneofthe beat private schools of the day,)

and from thence was removed to the academy at Warring-

ton, where my rider brother Benjamin had preceded me,
               NARRATIVE.                                     O

and which is situated between Liverpool and Manchester,
the seats of commerce and manufactures. At Warrington

I derived many advantages from attending the various

lectures on history, literature, and general knowledge,

which may perhaps have had a tendency to give a bent to

some of my occupations in life, for which opportunities I

feel grateful to my parents.

The academy at Warrington, at that period, was held

in great estimation from the reputation of its tutors and

the greater field they held out in promoting general know-

ledge and science on liberal principles, and many other
pursuits not to be obtained in common grammar-schools.

Dr. Aikin, the divinity tutor, was a man of great reputa-
tion, and was the parent of Dr. John Aikin and Mrs. Bar-

bauld, whose literary works are well known to the public.
Dr. Priestley was another tutor distinguished for his amiable

character and kindness of manner as well as for his literary

and philosophical pursuits, and for his lectures on history,

&c. &c. My eldest brother Benjamin and myself resided

in his house, and derived very great advautages from that

circumstance.

   My brother was possessed of considerable talents and
general knowledge, which by perseverance made him con-

versant with philosophical pursuits, and introduced him to
the acquaintance of many distinguished men.

   After leaving Warrington he went to Cambridge, and
thence to the Temple, where he studied law, and went

subsequently to Edinburgh, where he studied medicine,

but never practised either professionally.  He was in

Parliament for some time, and afterwards removed to

America, and resided many years at Hallowell, in the
State of Maine, where he continued his literary, scientific,
6 N ARRATIVK.

and agricultural pursuits. His valuable library was easy

nf access, particularly to medical men, and he was often

With them at their consultations as a friend, but not pro-

      lonally. He died in December, 1835, in his eighty-

fifth year, much beloved by his family and regretted by

society. He was well acquainted with Sir Joseph Banks,
Mr. Cavendish, Dr. Price, Dr. Franklin, Sir Charles

Blagden, and Dr. Priestley, who, when he published his

Lectures on History, in 1797, dedicated them to his pupil.
His friendship and connexions with Dr. Franklin were

intimate and lasting, particularly during the period when

my brother was confidentially employed to promote the

negociation for a peace with America. In 1779 he col-
lected and published, without a name, the " Political,
" Miscellaneous, and Philosophical Essays of Dr. Frank-
"       "
   lin     which     was  the  best collection     that could  then  be
        r

obtained. In 1796 a more enlarged collection of Dr.

Franklin's papers, with his life, appeared in 3 vol. 8vo.

which my brother also superintended.               He afterwards,

with other friends, prevailed on Dr. Franklin to collect his

works and to write a memoir of his own life, which v.

subsequently published by his grandson, Temple Franklin,
in 3 vol. 4 to.* One copy of the manuscript life was sent
to the Duke de la Rochefoucauld, at Paris, and another

copy was Bent to my brother, which the Doctor kindly
permitted me to peruse. It remained some tune in my

possessi n, and I profited much from the life and

   * There  ifl    more recent publication <>╗'Dr. Franklin's Life, Works,

ami Letters,   bj a  Jared Sparks, insixtoran

                          a
                                     <1
   I  li.i\ r in iu\ jM.s M ssion go< portrait of Dr, Franklin ami his walking-

        whkh  in   gave lo mj father, ami nrhrch greatly rail
                                                I
NARRATIVE.  7

writings of a man who was an ornament to society,

and who ever considered utility as the great principle
of life.

   With respect to myself I shall only state that I attend-

ed all the lectures at Warrington except Divinity ; it being

intended that I should follow mercantile pursuits. My

studies were much directed to geography, history, travels,

and voyages of discovery. I took great interest in ac-
counts of shipwrecks and other disasters at sea. I also

saw and heard a great deal respecting canals, docks,

manufactures, commerce, and population; and as small

beginnings often lead to greater efforts, I was, in 1791,

induced to join with some friends in endeavouring to pro-

cure a good collection of the history and plans of the

canals of this country, with a view of forming a society

for their encouragement; and, for this object, I wrote a

prospectus, which appeared on the wrapper of the Euro-

pean Magazine ; but the attempt failed. A copy of this

paper will be found in the Miscellaneous Part, No. 1.

   In Dr. Kees' Cyclopaedia will be found an accurate

description of all the canals then made, making, and

projected in England ; and there is also another article in

the same work which gives much information on the sub-

ject of docks. With a view to these objects I made a

collection of all the plans of canals, both English and

foreign, which I could meet with, with descriptions and

details, forming three large folio volumes; and another

collection on the subject of docks, which formed two

volumes more, with various other documents connected

with these subjects.

A society was also formed for the improvement of naval
 8 N A URATIVE.

 architecture, and for collecting the best information on

that subject, in which the late Colonel Beaufoy took the
lead. Many experiments were made in the Greenland
Docks of importance to science, which were conducted

principally under his inspection; and his son, Henry
Beaufoy, Esq., of South Lambeth, has lately published
an account of them in a princely style, giving the work to
a great many public bodies and private individuals both
at home and abroad.

   Some of the first naval men of the time belonged to
this society, and his late Majesty William IV. when Duke
of Clarence, honoured it with his sanction. I often at-
tended the committee with Colonel Beaufoy, Captain
Laird, R.N., Mr. Daniel Brent, the ship-builder, and

others ; and 1 contributed a paper on naval architecture
and the preservation of timber, a copy of which will be
found in the Miscellaneous Part, No. 2.

In 1783 I was elected a Director of the Royal Exchange

Assurance Corporation, and continued in  I it,  first as direc-

tor and afterwards as sub-governor and governor, until the

year 1829, period of forty-six years without intermission.
a
This period embraced the most useful, important, and
                   Ia
pleasant part of my life, during which          formed many

friendslups and attachments. Having some leisure, and

Wishing to make myself useful in that situation, die*
                                                I

out various general and consolidated statements of the

different branches of the concerns of the corporation for

century, namely, from the year 1720      to  1819 inclusive,

for which              received the thanks of the Court, and they

were pleased to adopt many of the hints and Suggestions

therein submitted to then- consideration, and t<> request
NARRATIVE.  9

to sit for my portrait, which was painted by Mr. Phillips.
In the Miscellaneous Part, No. 3, will be found the Re-
solutions of the Court, and my answer for their thanks,

and also for my picture being permitted to be hung
up in the Court-room. These documents were contained
in seven volumes, and when completed, including the

final report upon all these transactions down to 1827, were
presented, in December 1837, with a letter, a copy of
which is annexed ; but unfortunately all these reports and

statements were destroyed by the late dreadful fire at the

Royal Exchange, as well as the portraits of Edward
Foster, Esq. governor ; William Vaughan, Esq. governor ;

Pasco Grenfell, Esq. governor ; and Samuel Penning, Esq.

for long services, and many years a sitting director.

   In 1796 I became acquainted with Captain David Wood-

ward, and received from him an account of his hardships
and sufferings in the Celebes Seas, and of his residence in
the island of that name. He was the mate of the Ameri-

can ship Enterprize, Captain Hubbard, going from Batavia
to Manilla, and being detained for some weeks in the
Straits of Macassar by head winds, and in distress for pro-
visions, his captain sent him with four men to a vessel at

a distance to request supplies ; but not being able to pro-
cure any beyond a momentary refreshment, they left that
ship the next morning, taking with them only a bottle of
brandy. They lost sight of both vessels and fell in with a
Malay proa, with the crew of which they endeavoured to
barter for supplies, offering them money in exchange.
The Malays attempted to fire on them, but their muskets
failed, when Woodward soon after pushed into an inlet in
the island of Celebes, and while they were cutting cocoa-
10 NARRATIVE.

nuts the Malays seized his boat and killed George Miller,
the man who was left in charge of it. Woodward and the

survivors, after enduring great hardships fur nearly twelve
days and almost without provisions, surrendered them-
selves to the natives and lived amongst them, with various

hardships, between two and three years.  They then seized
a boat, reached Macassar, found their    way to Batavia,
and thence to Calcutta.

    While Captain Woodward was there, the Ship America
 arrived in Bengal, and, to his great surprise and jov, it was

commanded by his old friend Captain Hubbard, the very
 Captain with whom he had sailed three years before in the

Enterprise, when he lost him in his boat in the Straits of

Macassar. Captain Hubbard was quite overjoyed to see
Captain Woodward, and soon convinced him that he had
not forgotten him, and told him that he had given up the
boat for lost, after having waited in the Straits for three

days, and had sent home his clothes to his wife, (or widow
as he supposed) with the balance of his wages.

    Captain Hubbard pressed Captain Woodward to go with
him to the Mauritius, and promised that, on their arrival
there he should succeed him in the command of the

America, which belonged to the same owners as the

Enterprise,

At the Mauritius Captain Woodward met with three of

his old messmates and fellow-sufferers,-- John (       tge

Williams, and William Culeon. The other, named Etol

Gilbert! had previously gone to America. A- mav be sup-

posed, they were not a little glad to B66 eaeh other BgSSD.
Being now in a more prosperous situation than when thev

firsl parted, lie furnished them with clothes and BQ<

Captain Woodward being appelated to the command
                NARRATIVE.                                     11

the America at the Mauritius, arrived in London in 1796,

consigned to my firm. I obtained from him a narrative

of his sufferings, which was afterwards published by Mr.
Johnson, in the year 1805. I dedicated it to my friend and

relative, Captain Benjamin Hallo well, an officer well known
in the British navy as one of Lord Nelson's Captains in the
action of the Nile.*

    Captain Hallowell was afterwards created an Admiral
and Knight-Commander of the Bath, and took the name
of Carew, with an estate bequeathed to him by our relative,
Mrs. Gee, of Beddington Park, Surrey, and entailed upon

his heirs.

   To Captain Woodward's narrative was added a list of
fifty-two well-authenticated cases of accidents, shipwrecks,

and interesting escapes by sea and land, calculated to

teach that none should even under the most unfavourable

circumstances despair.

    Messrs. Constable have since published Woodward's
Narrative in their Collection of Voyages, vols. 78

and 79.

* " Part of the Orient's main-mast was picked up by the Swiftsure;

"Captain Hallowell ordered his carpenter to make a coffin of it; the
" iron as well
" was finished  as wood was taken from the wreck of the same   ship : it
                as well and handsomely as the workman's skill  and ma-
" terials would permit ; and Captain Hallowell then sent it to the Admiral

" with the following letter :--

I" Sir,-- have taken the liberty of presenting to you a coffin made
" from the main-mast of IS Orient, that when you have finished your
" military career in this world, you may be buried in one of your tro-

" phies. But that that period may be far distant, is the earnest wish of
" your sincere friend, Benjamin Hallowell."-- Southey's Life of

Nelson.
  12 NARRATIVE.

     I had the pleasure of seeing Captain Hubbard wlien he

 came to London, and of receiving from him a written con-
 firmation of Captain Woodward's Narrative ; and it is also
 a remarkable fact, that one of the seamen who was with
 Captain Woodward, some years afterwards called on me,
  and after perusing the narrative, said it was very accu-
 rate. He had been in the navy, and wished me to recom-
 mend his son to 1 e made a midshipman.

    An attempt was made to form a society for the purpose
of preserving life, and aiding those who might be exposed

 to shipwrecks or other hardships, by collecting the nar-
 ratives of those who had survived such trials, that others
 might profit by their experience ; but the attempt failed.

    I felt it my duty, at various periods during the long

 war, to attend with others the different committees for
 public subscriptions ; such as that upon the loss of the
Royal George with Admiral Kempenfelt at Portsmouth,
on the 3d August, 1782 ; that for the suppression of the

mutiny at the Nore; and afterwards on another committee
for raising a subscription for the relief of the wounded and
the families of those who were killed at the battle oi'
Camperdown, under Lord Duncan, when a very large sum
was collected. This victory was highly important for its

preventing a descent on Ireland.

   The year 1797 was a year <A' much anxiety, from a state
of insubordination instigated by evil-minded persons in the
British navy ; and also by the mutiny at the Nbre, which
excited so much attention, that the merchants, bank*
and trailers of Loudon were publicly convened to meet on
NARRATIVE.  13

the Royal Exchange, in order to take prompt measures to
restore tranquillity ; and they came to a resolution to
recommend, that all persons who were concerned in the
same should not in future be again employed in the naval
and merchant service of this country. An active com-

mittee was appointed, and a large subscription raised to

take such measures as might be deemed expedient upon

such an occasion. These resolutions were printed and

circulated, and found their way the next morning early
on board the man of war in which Parker and his asso-

ciates were assembled ; and from the information given by
an elder brother of the Trinity House, who had been

detained on board, he stated that the resolutions had pro-
duced a great effect on Parker and the ship's crew.

   The committee were active in their exertions, and to

promote their views, I drew up a little address to the

British seamen, which was approved and circulated by the
aid of Sir Evan Nepean, Secretary of the Navy.

   The resolutions of the merchants, and this address,
went to prove how much the British seamen were better
off than the seamen of other countries. A copy of the
address will be found in the Miscellaneous Part, No. 4.

   As one of the committee, I accompanied Captain King,

(an elder brother of the Trinity House) to the Admiralty,
and saw Sir Evan Nepean, and after some conversation we
were introduced to Mr. Pitt and Earl Spencer.

   The committee appropriated the funds raised in the pur-
chase of swords and plate, as presents to the officers, and
in gratuities to the men, for the performance of their duty,
and the suppression of the mutiny.

   I felt it my duty also to attend the embarkation of

volunteers from the Dundee Arms in Wapping down to
   14 N ABRATI1 B.

  Woolwich ; and just as the Gravesend boat was going off,

  I received a note from Sir Evan Nepean, stating that the

  mutiny was at an end. But the boat departed, to entitle
  the men to receive their bounty.

     In the year 1797 there were two naval actions, both of
 them important in themselves, and peculiarly so from the
 state of the times : one was that of Sir John Jervis, off
 Cape St. Vincent, in February, and the other that of
 Admiral Duncan, on the 11th October, which dispelled the
 gloom that had hung over the nation. They were important
 from the confidence which was restored to the country,
 and preventing, as before stated, a descent upon Ireland.

    Sir John Jervis, with fifteen sail of the line, two of which
 were three-deckers, off Cape St. Vincent, fell in with and
gallantly engaged the Spanish fleet, under Admiral Don
Joseph de Cordova, of twenty-seven sail of the line, seven
of which were three-deckers, and captured four of them,
two of which were three-deckers, lie was ably seconded
by Rear-Admiral Nelson and the Captains of his division.
In this action British valour shone with the

splendour.
    Duncan, being reinforced, sailed with sixteen ships ol

the line, and engaged the Dutch fleet consisting o\' -even-
teen sail of the line-, commanded by Admiral De Winter,
and after a gallant, and severe conflict, Admiral De
Winter's flag was struck, his ship being totally disabled,
and Lord Dunean look ten ships of the line; tin
destroyed, and 4 escaped to the Texrl. niuh r the command
of the Dutch Admiral, Story. Admiral De Winter a
received IB this country with all the respect and attention
due t<> Ins gallant conduct upon the occasion.
NARRATIVE.  15

   It is stated that at a dinner given by one of the ministers

to Lord Duncan and Admiral De Winter, that when the
health of the latter was given, he appealed to Lord

Duncan, whether, if the other four ships had not left him,

he would not in all probability have gained the victory.
Lord Duncan, with that pleasantry and delicacy so natural
to him, replied by rilling his glass, and saying, " Admiral

" De Winter, I am exceedingly happy to drink your
" health in this good company."

   A large sum of money was. raised by subscription for the
relief of the sufferers in the above action, and a com-

mittee was appointed for its management.
   The committee in the several reports of their proceed-

ings upon 9th July, 1801, 29th October, 1802, and 17th
January, 1804, stated, that out of 1040 cases of persons
reported to have been killed or wounded in Lord Duncan's
action, that all the wounded and the relatives of those who

were killed, were relieved, except thirty-six, who could not
be found, and that the unclaimed gratuities which had

been allotted to these persons, were given to the consuls

and churches in London of the different nations to which

the foreign seamen belonged, and a portion of those gra-
tuities that were then lapsed, to Greenwich Hospital, to
the Merchant Seamen's Office, and to the Marine Society,
as institutions intimately connected with the naval and
mercantile service of this country : also donations to an
hospital in London, another in Edinburgh, and one in Dublin,
upon the condition of their receiving such wounded seamen
as were in Lord Duncan's action that applied for admission.

   In order to secure the regular payment of certain other

annuities that had been granted to those who had been

severely wounded, or to the families of those who had
16 NARRATIVE.

been killed, the committee transferred to the Marine
Society, in trust, the amount of those anuuities, under
certain regulations ; for the particulars of which vide Mis-
cellaneous Part, No. 5.

At the battle of the Nile, on the 21st of August, 1798,

Rear-Admiral Nelson, with thirteen ships of the line, (one
of which, the Culloden, got on shore, and was not in the

action) and one of fifty guns and a brig, en^ag^ed the
French fleet under Admiral Crueys, consisting of thirteen

ships of the line and four frigates, and totally defeated
a
                                                                                  it,
taking and destroying eleven ships and two frigates. One
of those ships of the line that escaped, and one frigate,

the Diane, were taken at Malta, and the other ship of the

line by squadron in the Mediterranean. The British

fleet had 1000 guns and 8000 men. The French fleet

1200 guns, and ten to 11,000 men.

With respect to the battle of Trafalgar, which took

place on the 21st October, 1805, Lord Nelson was ablv

          by

                                                                            ;

                                                                       by
seconded  Admiral Collingwood and the fleet consisted

of twenty-seven ships and four frigates, and the combined

fleets of France and Spain, commanded                                          Admirals
.....Enemy's Reel
Villeueuve and Alava, consisted of thirty-three ships of the
line and seven large frigates. Admiral Collingwood sent
to Gibraltar of the
......Escaped to Cadiz, wrecks
Destroyed        ..                                                            16
                                               .
          Ditto                                                .
                                                                              .
                                                                                             ..

                                                                                1 3 fi 4
                 serviceable

          Ditto  to the southward  .
NARRATIVE.  17

    And to crown the victory, great as it was, Rear-Admiral
Sir R. Stracban, with four sail of the line and three
frigates, fell in off Ferrol with the four sail of the line that
escaped from Trafalgar under Admiral Dumanoir, and
took them on the 4th of November, 1805, thus annihilating

the enemy's naval power.

   In the battle of Trafalgar Nelson lost his life, and the
country one of its greatest heroes. He was buried at St.
Paul's with public honours, in the coffin given him by Cap-
tain Hallowell ; and the members of the Houses of Lords

and Commons attended the ceremony as chief mourners.

   It is a curious fact, that Mr. Clerk, of Eldin, near

Edinburgh, wrote a book on naval tactics, without having
been at sea or on board a man of war, in which work he

recommended the breaking the enemy's line and doubling on

the division that was to windward, and by so doing to
defeat an enemy's fleet of greater force.

    Lord Rodney, Lord St. Vincent, and Lord Nelson tried
the experiment with success, and each of them wrote a
letter to Mr. Clerk, stating that they were greatly indebted
to his suggestions for their victories.

   It may be remarked, that during a long war, England,

by the superiority of its navy and discipline, obtained
victories over the combined fleets of France, Spain, and
Holland, and destroyed their naval power; and Wellington
at Waterloo, by land, overcame the most renowned general
of the age, and gave peace and tranquillity to Europe.

  I belonged to the Society for bettering the Condition

of the Poor, which, in 1815, came to a resolution

to recommend the establishment, in the metropolis, of
those useful and important institutions, Savings Banks ;
18 NARRATIVE.

and a meeting was held in Westminster, at which a

number of distinguished and respectable persons attended,

for the purpose of forming the Bank which was afterwards

opened at Leicester-place.  At this meeting I stated,

that it was in contemplation to establish one in the City
of London ; and subsequently it was settled, by a meeting
of a few friends at my house, that one should be esta-

blished. This was carried into effect at Bishopsgate

Church-yard, in July 1816, whence it was transferred

to a new building at Blomfield-street, Moorfields, (its

present situation,) in 1828; and, on laying the first stone,

I received a silver trowel, with the following inscription : --

       Respectfully

              presented by

       Mr. James Foster,

       Builder,

                             to

WILLIAM VAUGHAN, Esq.

ROYAL            Governor

                 of the

       EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
           COMPANY,

               on his laying the First Stone
                             of the

LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION,
         OR BANK FOR SWINGS,

    in Blomi iKLD-Srin.K t, Moorfiei.i>>,
            in the City of London,

he being one of the Vice-Presidents, and Chairman

         of all Commits
on the 20th day of September,

                               fv>7.

иLB. SiiEiMi i.kd, Bsq. Architect.
                     NARRATIVE.                       19

In February, 1836, in consequence of increasing age
Iand infirmities,
                   resigned my situation as Chairman of

the Superintending Committee, and their thanks were

returned to me for my services, as will be found, with

my answer, in the Miscellaneous Part, No. 6.

   In consequence of the great increase of the business
of this Institution, the Committee purchased the lease

of the house adjoining, pulled it down and rebuilt the

same, having a new lease, for a longer term, granted

by the City. Since its first establishment, in 1816, to

20th November, 1837, during a period of 21 years, there

has been received, including interest . . Б2,609,640  4

Deducting payments to depositors, in-

cluding interest and disbursements 2,053,853 3 2

                   Leaving the sum of Б555,786 17 2

due to 25,010 depositors.

I was also on the Committee of the Society for the

Refuge for the Destitute, and for the Society of Friends

for the Relief of Foreigners in Distress. I resigned my

situation as Treasurer to the latter in 1829, after holding it

for twenty-one years, when I received a letter of thanks

from the Committee.        I also belonged to the Marine

Society and Merchant Seamen's Office.

  From connexions and friends in America I became

acquainted with many of the distinguished and literary

characters of that country, and from their kindness I

have been made an honorary member of the American

Philosophical Society at Philadelphia, and of the Philo-

sophical and Historical Societies at New York. I was

likewise a member of a Committee for the relief of

                                       c2
20 NARRATIVE.

British prisoners in France, for whom a liberal subscription
was raised. The money was transmitted, at various times,
to a Committee of respectable officers and others, who
were prisoners there, to be distributed in such a manner
as should be found most advantageous. Regular returns
of the application of the money were made to the Com-
mittee in London.

    The New England Corporation for civilizing the Indians
in New England and parts adjacent is one of which

I am also a member. I became a member of this

Company many years ago, and succeeded Sir William
Pepperell, Bart, as Governor, which office I resinned
in 1829, still retaining my situation as a member of the
Company, and continuing upon their Committees.

     After New England became independent by the
American revolution, the field of operations for the Com-
pany was, by a decree of the Lord Chancellor, transferred
to the British colonies adjacent to New England.

    The first operations of the Company, after ih
took place, were in New Brunswick : but not meeting
with the success they anticipated, they removed their
establishment to Upper Canada, where it is principally
confined to the Indians of the ^ix Nations upon the
Grand River, consisting of the Mohawks and other ti
who had removed from New England and thi

adjacent.
    A portion of the funds under the Company's tine

is applicable to the advancement of the Christian religion
among Indians, Blacks, and Pagans in some
more of Hi- Majesty's plantations, or colonies; and they
have devoted ;╗ part of them, with some success, to the
NARRATIVE.  21

  instruction of the negroes in Jamaica and other British

  islands in the West Indies.

    I have been for many years a fellow of the Royal

  Society, and a member of the Royal and London Institu-

  tions from their commencement.

    I have been a governor of St. Thomas's Hospital, and

 on its Committees for many years.

    I was many years, and still remain, a governor of
 Christ's Hospital, an Institution established by Edward VI.

 of great public utility, where many of our distinguished

 characters have been educated. It gave me much pleasure
 to promote the objects of Professor A. D. Bache, of

 Philadelphia, a great grandson of Franklin, the President
of Girard College for Orphans, founded and endowed
by the late Stephen Girard, a wealthy citizen of Phila-

delphia. The Professor came to Europe to inspect such

public establishments as were conducive to the carrying
this great scheme into effect. He had free access to

Christ's Hospital, and was much gratified to see those

objects that promoted his views.

   I was made an honorary member of the Society of

Civil Engineers at the time the docks for London were

in contemplation and execution. I have belonged to

many literary and charitable institutions which are not

adverted to ; and it may now be time to conclude this

digression.

   I have been placed in many situations where I have

endeavoured to make myself useful, and been blessed

with many friendships and attachments, and my wishes

Inow induce me to decrease my occupations ; and

have found, from experience, that contentment forms

a large portion of the happiness of human life; which
22 NARRATIVE.

is confirmed by what Mrs. Barbauld says, (whom I be-

came acquainted with early in life,) who shews that, by
moderating our wishes we may lessen many of our

imaginary wants and evils; and I now seek, during the

remainder of my life, for ease and retirement, and I look

forward with a humble hope that I may hereafter be

transferred to a better and happier state.

     September 22, 1838.
         REMARKS

                                                       ON THE

 STATE OF THE PORT OF LONDON IN 1793 ;

                                     WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE

         RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE DOCKS
AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS UP TO THE YEAR 1837 ;

                                                        WITH

                A FEW HINTS AND OBSERVATIONS

                                                       ON THE

   COMMERCE AND PROSPERITY OF ENGLAND.
                 REMARKS ON DOCKS.

It was intended to have given a summary statement of

each of the docks and their accommodations from their

beginning to their completion; their rise, progress, objects,
and dimensions ; but after a lapse of forty years and up-
wards, and the charters of the docks for twenty-one years
having long expired, it was thought advisable to complete
this collection by putting together the Tracts that were

written by me, and reprinting some that were out of print.

It is only intended in this second part to give a brief

abstract of this collection, referring to the Tracts themselves
in the Appendix for further information.

   The Collection of Tracts for promoting docks, ware-
houses, and other accommodations in the Port of London,

were written between the years 1793 and 1800. The first
of these Tracts was written in 1793, and being favourably
received by the mercantile and shipping interests was then
printed for private circulation; it suggested St. Katharine's,
Wapping, the Isle of Dogs, and Rotherhithe as conve-
nient places for them, giving the preference to the plan
for the London-Docks at Wapping, on account of its
local advantages, and its vicinity to the seat of commerce.

   These Tracts were first printed to show the wants of the
Port of London in 1793, and the remedies proposed.

   A meeting of the chairmen of public bodies and of

merchants was convened, by public advertisement, to meet
2(> REMARKS ON DOCKS.

at the Merchant Seamen's Office, on the 6th March,

1794, to take into consideration the state of the legal
quays. They adjourned to the 14th March, to meet at
the Marine Society's Office, to take into consideration the
inadequacy of the legal quays for the accommodation of
the trade of London, which were the same as at the
time of Queen Elizabeth, between London- Bridge and the
Tower; when it was resolved, after deliberation, that a

committee of forty-one be appointed to take the same into
consideration, and to report their proceedings, a< occasion
might require, to a general meeting. The committee met
on the 18th March, 1794, when they resolved that the
legal quays and sufferance wharfs were inadequate for the
accommodation of the Port, and that they would be ready
to receive any information or proposals for the further ac-
commodation of the trade.

   And upon the 13th March, 1795, the Committee came

to the resolution, " that wet docks at Wapping would
" best tend to remove the difficulties and inconveniences
" which affected the commerce of the Port, and that they
" were of opinion that the forming a cut from Black-
" wall might be proposed, and that a communication o(
" the plan should be made to the Corporation of the City
" of London, and also to Government to request their
" support."

   A general subscription having been agreed upon, and

books opened for the purpose, the subscribers met at the
London-Tavern, on the 5th January, 1796, Edward Fers-
irr, Esq. in the chair, and after passing Beveral resolution!
they agreed to prepare a petition to Parliament to bring in

a bill for the purpose, and they further resolved, --
   " That the thanks of this meeting be given to the chair-
REMARKS ON DOCKS.  27

" man, deputy-chairman, treasurer, and committee who
" have prepared the business for this meeting."

        Also resolved, --
   " That the thanks of this meeting be given to William
и Vaughan, Esq. for the assiduity and ability he has
" manifested, and the assistance he has given during the

" progress of this business."

    During the progress of their investigations the commit-
tee of forty-one employed Mr. Powsey, who had recently
constructed Mr. Perry's dock at Blackwall, to make a

survey of Wapping ; and his report being approved of, on
the 24th August, 1794, Captain Huddart and Mr. Vaughan

were requested to find out an efficient person well qualified

to make a regular and correct survey of the vacant space

at Wapping for forming the London-Docks.
   Mr. Daniel Alexander, who had been employed in a

difficult work of hydraulic architecture, in widening
Rochester-bridge, and also as surveyor in building ware-
houses in the Tidal works of the Port of London, and

who was strongly recommended, was appointed to make a

detailed and accurate survey of the site for docks at Wap-
ping ; on account of its large open space of low land much
below high water mark, and being covered by compara-
tively few houses, with a fine entrance from the deep water
of the pool at Bell-Dock. The survey was completed in

seventy days, and was found so correct as to require no

alterations.

   Various other plans were submitted, possessing merit ;
but that for the London-Docks at Wapping being preferred,
a committee was appointed to carry the same into execu-

tion, as before stated.

   In the original plan of these docks submitted to Parlia-
  28 REMARKS OH DOCKS.

  incut was a cut from Blackvvall to the docks at Wapping,
  to avoid the circumnavigation of the Isle of Dogs, which
  was afterwards relinquished, and the application confined
  to the formation of " The London-Docks" only. On the
 plan submitted to Parliament was shown the number of

  streets and houses as they then stood ; and upon that plan
 was also drawn the outline of a dock of twen

 acres, giving the largest possible area of water, with the
 longest quay-room, and a figure a little irregular, to suit
 surrounding property, and a basin of three acres, with an
 entrance at Bell-Dock, afterwards approved of by the Court
 of Directors, in August, 1800 ; it was also further prop-
 to throw out a jetty into the dock, alongside of which
 ships might load and unload on three sides of the wharf.

    The whole was referred to a committee of civil
of great repute, viz. R. Mylne, Joseph Huddart, John
Rennie, and William Chapman, Esqrs. and the dock was

executed by J. Rennie, Esq.

    On the 3d of February, 1801, Mr. Vaughan, wishing to
aid the operations of these engineers, took the libertj
BUggesting various hints as to objects of a local nature,
many of which wen' adopted. These details being of a

local nature are not here inserted.

   Mr. Alexander had the planning and constructing o(
the live stacks of spacious warehouses on the north side,

situated HH) feet from the docks, to allow sufficient sp:
for the convenience of Loading, unloading, housing, 8cc.
with cross walls eaeh way, from the foundation up to and
through the roof; forming four distinct compartments, with

stone Btaircases at each gable end up to every floor, with
nun doors at their entrances, and double iron doOTf to
conned or separate the rooms; which gave conveniei
REMARKS ON DOCKS.  29

and security against fire. Mr. Alexander also completed
the spacious vaults, which were capable of receiving many
thousand pipes of wines and spirits, as well as the tobacco-
warehouse, which covers the space of between four and five
acres. The whole of the premises were encircled by a high
wall, and were completed under his direction ; and some
years afterwards the adjoining or eastern dock of about

seven acres was constructed, and the new warehouses were

built by him. This dock was afterwards connected with

the river by a cut at Bell Dock, Shadwell. #
   Mr. Alexander drew various plans and made sundry

borings for the state of the soil within the space intended
for the docks ; he also made an estimate of the value of

the houses and premises intended to be purchased, and

assisted in taking assents and dissents to the bill in ques-
tion, and in building the warehouses for the second dock,
and altering the building for the re venue- officers,

   Mr. Alexander continued as surveyor to the Dock Com-
pany from 1794 to 1831, a period of thirty-seven years,
when he resigned a situation which he had filled with

zeal and ability.
   The Company were also very much indebted to the zea-

lous and active exertions of George Robinson, Esq., their
first Secretary, who died in their service in 1827, for as-
sisting to obtain the different Acts of Parliament ; and for
his general disinterested and judicious attention to their
affairs, they voted him a handsome gratuity for these ser-
vices, which he duly merited.

   * In 1838 the London Dock Company, to create more quay room and

greater convenience, carried out a jetty 800 feet long, at which ships may
load v/ith greater despatch.
 30 REMARKS ON DOCKS.

    The usual measures were taken to petition Parliament
in favour of the Docks, when the House of Commons ap-
 pointed a Committee to take into consideration all the
plans that were proposed for the relief of the Port. During
 their progress two other tracts were written, printed, and
circulated as follows: --

   " Reasons in favour of London Docks" was a little

publication distributed in 1795, and reprinted in 1796 and
 1797. About 3000 of these were printed off and given
to friends and opponents, and contributed greatly to
remove many objections to Docks, and to their proposed
situations. This tract will be found in the Appendix.

    The next Tract, dated 16th August, 1795, was a Letter
written to Thomas Irving, Esq., the then Inspector-Gene-

ral of Parliamentary Reports, by whom I had been fa-

voured with many documentary papers respecting trade

and shipping. In conversing with him on the importance
of attaching the bonding system to the plan for making
Docks, he requested me to communicate the same in
writing; but time would not allow much care and conside-

ration in composing a letter which was never intended for
publication. He asked permission to communicate the

letter to Mr. Pitt and Mr. George Rose, who were pleased

to receive favourably the suggestions contained in it.
Some few copies were afterwards printed in March, 1796,
for private circulation. This letter being out o( print, has

been reprinted.
   The bonding system had only been extended at this

time to tea, tobacco, and rum; but when the Actfl of
Parliament passed for making docks, the West and E
India trade were allowed the bonding System for their re-
spective imports, under " An Act for permitting certain
REMARKS ON DOCKS.  31

" Goods imported into Great Britain to be secured in
" Warehouses without payment of Duty." -- 43d George

III. cap. 132. In the merchants' docks at Wapping,

which had been intended for general purposes, the bonding
system was in like manner granted for wine, brandy, rice,
and tobacco. The charter for these docks was for twenty-

one years.
    Upon the expiration of these charters, this bonding

system was extended equally to all the Docks that were
entitled to the warehousing system. This system has at
farther times been extended to many other articles of
trade, and by degrees has been granted to the Docks of
most of the leading outports. The advantages derived
from it were great to the merchants, commerce, and re-

venue. It gave the merchants the command of capital in

their commercial concerns; it encouraged making England

a depot for the exportation of its commerce to foreign

parts without the payment or the drawback of duties, and
left the payment of duties to be made at the moment of

home consumption. It prevented much smuggling and
illicit trade, and was a great saving to Government in the

expenses of watching goods until landed, and in the ex-
penses of collecting the revenue. The Docks also pre-

vented much plunder and pilfering.
    The Examination of William Vaughan, Esq., before the

Committee of the House of Commons, dated 22d April
1796, was the next Tract, and will be found in the Ap-
pendix, of which the following are some of the general
outlines. He produced a plan of a survey of the River
Thames, made at his own expense by Capt. A. M. Shields,
with the soundings of the river, and the position and num-
ber of the mooring-chains, from London Bridge to Bugsby's
 32 REMARKS ON DOCKS.

 Hole; and also plans of the several sections and soundings
across the river at different parts by Capt. Shields. The
plan was drawn to a scale of 40 yards to an inch, and
extended to 18 feet in length. When presented to the
Committee of the House of Commons it could not be re-

ceived in evidence, from its being private property and
from other causes ; but it was permitted to remain there
and to be referred to in the examination of Capt. Shields

and Mr. Vaughan. These plans and sections, and also a
printed copy of the first plan submitted to Parliament,
as executed by Mr. Alexander, were afterwards pre-
sented to the London Dock Company, and are now
hung up at the Committee-room at the London Dock for

inspection.
    As there were so many schemes for Docks, and other

plans afloat for the improvement of the Port, and m
proposed than the immediate commerce of the Port re-
quired, it was deemed expedient to see how much of the
trade of the Port could necessarily lie and discharge in the
river; leaving British and foreign ships from foreign parts,
that were valuable on account of their cargoes and re-
venue, to resort to Docks at discretion.

    Sir William Young, Bart., the Chairman of this Com-
mittee of the House of Commons, wishing to have some
information as to thr powers and capacity o( the n\er for
the reception, laying, Loading, and unloading >lnps, re-
quested to have answers to some queries vn these and
other subjects, which will he found in the Evidence printed
in this collection, in the Appendix.

    lli^ Majesty George the Third having intimated a wish
to sec the different plans for tin- London Docks, they *

-hi to him will) the Tracts that had been printed and
REMARKS ON DOCKS.  33

other papers ; and his Majesty was pleased to return the
plans with expressions of great satisfaction.

   In the year 1794 many of these Dock Tracts that had

been then printed were collected and bound together for
private circulation ; since which two other Tracts were
printed, viz. Answers to Objections against the London
Docks, written in 1796, and a Comparative Statement
between the London and the West India Docks, written

in 1799. These two pamphlets contain many observations
upon commerce, and are now added to complete this
collection of Tracts on Docks, Trade, and the Bonding

System.

   In consequence of the long and great discussions, for
four sessions in Parliament, on the formation of the Lon-

don Docks at Wapping, and the many competitions that
sprung up in all quarters, and a fear that the West-India
trade would not be early provided for, Robert Milligan,
George Hibbert, Esqrs., and a respectable number of

merchants, planters, and others advocated the forma-

tion of Wet Docks in the Isle of Dogs, and in con-
junction with the interests of the City of London they
procured an Act of Parliament for making two Docks
exclusively for the West-India trade, with wharfs and

warehouses ; one for the import and the other for the
export trade, with an entrance basin at Blackwall, and
another at Limehouse-hole. The Act for these Docks was
for twenty-one years, and after the expiration of the
charter, the West-India trade was laid open, and at liberty

to go to any other docks in the Port of London. The Act
passed in 1799, and the first stone was laid on the 12th of

                                                                                                                   D
34 REMARKS ON DOCKS.

July, 1800, and opened for the reception of shipping on

September 1, 1802.
    George Hibbert, Esq., was the first Chairman, and

Robert Milligan, Esq., Deputy Chairman, and were the
great promoters of these Docks ; and upon the death of
the latter in May, 1809, the proprietors, much to his
honour, were pleased, for his active services, to erect a
statue to his memory with the following inscription: --

   To perpetuate on this spot

            the Memory of

ROBERT MILLIGAN, Esq.,

a Merchant of London,

To whose genius, perseverance, and guardian care,
   the surrounding great work principally owes

its design, accomplishment, and regulations,
    THE DIRECTORS AND PROPRIETORS,

                   Deprived by his death,  services,
              On the 21st May, 1809,

of the continuance of his invaluable

by their unanimous vote

caused this statue to be erected.

   The statue was erected by Mr. Westmacott in 1813.
The above inscription is on a bronze tablet at the back of
the pedestal of the statue; the plate was originally placed

in the front.

   My friend George Hibbert, Esq. who was one of the
principal West-India Merchants of London, chairman of

that body, and for many years the able and zealous agent

lor the island of .Jamaica, and for a short time in parlia-

ment, died on the 31st. October, 1837, respected and re-
REMARKS ON DOCKS.  35

 gretted by all who knew him. In public, he was an able
 and judicious advocate, and in private, a warm and kind
 friend. He was a liberal patron of the arts and sciences,
 and for many years President of the London Institution.

    The Act for the formation of a canal across the Isle of

 Dogs, to avoid the circumnavigation of the river by Green-
 wich, passed in 1800, and was under the management of
 the City of London. This canal was afterwards purchased
 by the West-India Dock Company, and, with additions,
 now forms a part of their docks.

    The Act for the Merchants' Docks at Wapping, origi-

nally intended for general purposes, without exclusion or
monopoly, did not pass till the beginning of the next ses-
sions in 1800, without the cut from Black wall as at first

proposed. It was begun in June, 1802, and was opened

for the reception of shipping in January, 1805. Under
the Warehousing Act, passed afterwards, tobacco, brandy,
and rice were allowed to be bonded there.

    The Act for the East-India Docks and for bonding teas,
&c. (for the trade of India) passed in 1803, and the Docks
opened in 1806, and my friend, John Woolmore, Esq.,
the first promoter, was elected chairman.

    The East-India Company, since the alteration in their
charter, have sold some of their valuable warehouses in
the city, which has caused great alterations as to the
system of management of the other docks. The West-
India Dock Company have purchased the East-India
warehouse in Fenchurch-street, and the St. Katharine
Dock Company those in Cutler-street. The East and
West India Dock Companies have lately united their
interests,

  I was on board the ships that first entered all these
                                                       d2
36 TIDES.

docks and the City Canal, as well as the St. Katharine's

at a later period.

The Act for the Commercial Dock, on the Surrey side

of the river, for timber, oil, corn, &c. passed in the year

1810, and the docks were opened in 1813.

   St. Katharine's. -- In the year 1825 an Act passed for

making docks at this place for the convenience of the

Baltic and other trades. These docks owed their origin

more to the combination and competition of particular

interests than to the increase of trade and commerce of

the Port of London. They extend over a plot of ground

which had been surveyed by the London Dock Company,

but was never further pursued on account of its possessing

so small an area for water compared with the great num-

ber of houses upon  and part of them upon rising
                    it,
                                                                     is

                                                                         a
ground. These docks were commenced on the 3d of May,

1827, and opened on the 25th October, 1828. Thomas

Tooke, Esq. was the first chairman. The dock divided

into two parts, with only one entrance and basin.

                    TIDES.

In August, 1800, Mr. Yaughan directed the height of

the tides to be taken at the gates of the London-Dock,

and to be regularly registered under the superintend*

of Mr. Pearce, an intelligent foreman, who had been
                              pf
                                                                          in
the employ of Mr. Alexander at the pin-head, and to be

kept as at. Liverpool. Tin* Direetors of the London Dock

Company were pleased to permit John W. Lubbock, Esq.
F.R.S. who was making some valuable observations OD

tides generally, to make use  these tables, which. wi
TIDES.  37

 afterwards printed in his interesting and important Obser-
 vations on Tides, published in the Philosophical Transac-

 tions, from the years 1831 to 1837. There are other

 valuable communications in these Transactions made by

 Professor Whewell, of Cambridge, from the year 1834 to
 1838, which contained many interesting observations made
 at 500 stations of the Coast Guard in Great Britain and

 Ireland, and 100 stations in America, Spain, Portugal,

 France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, and Norway, under
the direction of the Lords of the Admiralty.

   I cannot more happily state the merits and services of

these two scientific gentlemen on the subject of tides, than
by referring to an extract from His Royal Highness the
Duke of Sussex's Address, (which will be found in the

Miscellaneous Part, No. 7,) and I hope that their re-

searches in developing the great laws of nature will pro-
mote the cause of science and benefit commerce.

    Mr. Vaughan frequently attended Captain Shields while
he was making the survey of the river and the position of

the mooring-chains, and making observations on the tides.

Mr. Vaughan himself ascertaining the number of ships
that could moor, at high water, between London-bridge
and Bugsby's Hole, calculated on the average of various
surveys made by him. In the year 1796, a table was also
made of the regular rising of the tide from low water to
high water mark on the south side of the river, Captain
Shield marking the staff every three inches, while Mr.
Vaughan kept the time for every ten or fifteen minutes on

a calm and quiet day ; these observations were not how-
ever repeated, but it was observed, that by drawing a line
from the point of time to the point of the height of the
tide it always produced a curved line.
38 TIDES.

   With respect to the tide of the Thames, it may be stated

that there are occasional fluctuations, owing to the state
of the winds when the sea of the German Ocean is driven

into the mouth of the Thames, instead of through the

Straits of Dover ; which I conceive will account, together

with freshes from up the country, for some of the very
high tides in the upper part of the river and at the dock-
gates, and which occasioned the tides to flow about twenty

feet and upwards. I requested Mr. Pearce to state the

periods when they were at and above twenty feet. The
water overflowed the banks at the stairs off Wapping, and

at one of these periods I went down there and found in
the street that I walked through the water half-leg deep,

and the people were bailing the water out of their cellars,*

and I am not incorrect in stating, that many years ago the
tide flowed into Old Palace-yard and into Westminster-

hall.

   It may here be remarked, that the Thames, in regard
to its tides as well as the draft of water at London, is by

    * The site of St. John's, Wapping, and parts adjacent were anciently
 within the influx of the river, and was supposed to have been first em-
 banked in 1544, -- " By frequent inundations of the river Thames its
 " banks in these parts became sufferers ; for about the year 1565 d
 " breaches were made therein, which were no Booner repaired, than
 " another happened in 1571, which the Commissioners of Sewers, after
 " viewing the same, nere of opinion that the DQOSl effectual way to secure
 " the hank of the river in these parts, would he to eivet hottStS tin reon,
 4< to which end ground was taken, and the first foundation oi the house
" laid, where Wapping al present is situate."-- MaitlaruVs h
 u Londottf book viii. p. 768.

    Sec Plan of the London-Dock in the Appendix, p, 2, printed in
TIDES.  39

nature most happily adapted to the receipt of shipping in
the stream, and the passing them afloat into docks.

   The tide flowing gently from the Nore to Teddington, to
an average of eighteen feet at the London-Dock on spring
tides in a calm and gentle rise, not very much affected by
winds, or storms, or freshes, by strong currents or by silt
or mud banks : all of which, more or less, together with

ungovernable heights of tide, are sometimes severely felt
at Liverpool, Bristol, and Hull, and give the superiority
to London in this respect.

    This, with other properties, forms so fine a port at
London in the very heart of the kingdom.

   I requested Mr. Pearce to make out a copy of the tide

tables kept at the Wapping dock for my own use, which

he did till near the time of his death. Captain Maughan,
the present dock-master, who succeeded Mr. Pearce, is an

intelligent person, now continues them, and is attentive to

the causes and operations of tides, and to the usual tables
of them ; and he has introduced the use of the barometer,

which is also employed at Liverpool. He conceives that
the plan of the river, as surveyed by Captain Shields,
is a very valuable one, and a record of the tides forty

 years ago.

   I did not expect that the tide tables kept at the London

 Docks would ever have appeared in the Transactions of the

Royal Society ; though I feel honoured at my name being

referred to as having suggested the keeping of these tables
in London, in the same manner as at Liverpool.

    In the Examination of Mr. Vaughan before the com-
 mittee of the House of Commons, will be found a plate of
 the section of the river and of the docks, made by him,
and marked W. V. shewing the state of the tides at high
40 RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.

and low water-mark, and at neap and spring tides respect-

ively, and also the rise and fall of the tide for each day.

   Little accidents often lead to interesting, if not important

consequences. The making of Docks had produced much

attention at home and abroad ; and my friend Matthew

Boulton, Esq. of Soho, wishing to view them with some

friends, I accompanied them. The Rev. James Smirnove,

Chaplain to the Russian Embassy, was one of the party.

They afterwards dined with me, and on my expressing a

wish to increase my collection of maps and plans of rivers,
canals and docks, both at home and abroad, Mr. Smirnove

was kind enough to say that he would procure those of

Russia for me.   1802, I received a letter from Mr.
   In December,

Smirnove, informing me that he had made an application

to Vice-Admiral Mordinoff, who laid it before his Imperial

Majesty Alexander I. who was pleased to direct a hydro-
graphical plan of all the Russias, the rivers, and the canals,
made and making, and the docks at Cronstadt, to be -

to me, for which T returned my grateful acknowledgments

through Mr. Smirnove, sending at the same time various
plans of the docks then under formation in London, with

hints on commerce, free trade, aird the bonding system, to

be presented to his Imperial Majesty : and on the 80th
October, 1808, I received a letter from Vice-Admiral

ChiohagofS acknowledging my letter and the plans; and
further stating, that his Imperial Majesty had been ura-

eiouslv pleased to solid me a valuable diamond ring, for
which I returned suitable acknowledgments. Copies o(
tins correspondence will be found m the Miscellaneous Tart,

No. H.
   Colonel \\ avail, an engineer of merit in the RjIBS
             RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.          41

service, had been employed to make observations on the

progress of the London Docks; and on his going to

Petersburg to be married, he took with him a model I had

given him of the railways and waggons used in those
works, which he exhibited in a lecture before his Imperial

Majesty.
   While in England, he had taken up his abode next door

to a public-house in Tower Street, that had been fre-
quented by Peter the Great, for refreshment, upon his
returns from working in the King's yards at Deptford, well
known by the name of the

               " CZAR'S HEAD."

This sign had originally projected into the street, at the

time when signs were thus hung up. Colonel Waxall

             giving another in exchange for which now
;purchased     it

       it it,remains fixed against the house. Wishing to send thisa
                         a
sign of the Czar to be deposited m some public archives atI
                              it,
St. Petersburg, he requested of me certificate of its

origin which gave, having found upon enquiry, that the

then landlord or his family had purchased the good-will of

the house from the person who put up, or of the family

to whom    originally belonged. On Colonel WaxalPs

return to England he brought with him medal that had
been given to him by his Excellency Count Romanzoff

after reading his lecture before his Imperial Majesty и andit
at the same time he requested permission to present to
me, having rendered him, as he stated, some services.it
The medal was accepted at the moment, but was after-
wards returned, stating that all the different rings, and
this medal which he had received from his Imperial
42 shipping, 1793.

Majesty ought to be kept as heir-looms in his family; and
as ladies are the best guardians of their husbands' honours,

I requested the medal might be presented to his lady to

keep.

LONDON AS IT WAS IN 1793.

Before the making of docks, the accommodation of its

trade was confined, for the loading and unloading of ships
with the aid of lighters, to the legal quays between London
Bridge and the Tower, only about 1460 feet in length, and
to sufferance wharfs on both sides the river. The accom-

modation for the shipping was confined to the space between

London Bridge and Limehouse Hole.
   The number of vessels entered inwards in 1793 were --

Colliers                                                         3,500

Coasters                                                         6,473

                                                                 9,973

^^From foreign parts ( British                           ^2,574  3,767
                                                      ^

                                                         Total.... 13,740

    Perhaps the best contrast that could bo niado for London
as it was in 1793 is to compare it with London, with all its
docks and improvements, m 1 836 Of l s; >7, a-w ill hv i'ound

in the next part.
                        METROPOLIS

                                                         AND

   THE PORT OF LONDON,

                  AS IT WAS IN THE YEAR 1836,

                                              INCLUDING

 ALL THE DOCKS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.

   Within the last forty years the metropolis, including the
port of London, has undergone a wonderful alteration and

increase in extent, population, and commercial accom-
modation.

   It may be stated that the metropolis is the seat of a

great empire of legislation and justice, and also of industry,
commerce, and revenue-; and forms, as it were from its
extent and numbers, a little government within itself, with
such laws and regulations as are best adapted to promote
its interest and welfare. Its inhabitants are generally sub-
servient to laws and regulations, the minor courts of justice
deciding quarrels and disputes, with the aid of a well-
 regulated police.
44 METROPOLIS AM) THE

If strangers are struck with the size and grandeur of the

metropolis and its great improvements in the last thirty or

forty years, with its parks, gardens, public and private

edifices, its churches, public hospitals, charities, and insti-

tutions for knowledge, science and arts, with its bridges,

docks, tunnel and railways, they ought also to admire,

with equal justice, objects that promote their cleanliness,

health, comfort and happiness; with markets well supplied;

plenty of water ; its gas-lights affording beautiful illumi-

nations ; its steam-boats ; its insurance offices and fire-

engines, its commodious pavements and itsbarelled sew

all of which tend to increase our comforts and security.

There is no city better supplied with water or better

drained.

  If the maps of London at the time of Queen Elizabeth

in 1560, and that by Roque, in 1769, be compared with

those of the present period, there will be found to have
been a very great increase in the size of it; particularly if

we include the improvements and additions of recent

times; such as Regent Street and Park; the Strand;

Trafalgar Square ; Pall-mall; Belgrave Square : Waterloo,

Southwark, and London Bridges ; the cluster of the docks,

with all their buildings in the east, and other improvements
in Middlesex, Westminster, and Southwark. A tolerable

idea might be formed of the extent and number of hoi

requisite for a population of 1,500,000 inhabitants, allowing
about six persons to a house

The villages, for miles round London, are gradually

becoming united to  it,  and the avenues to the capital

arc -parlous and ornamental.

Then- are leu cities where there are so many benevolent
                           PORT OF LONDON.                            45

and charitable institutions for the comfort and assistance of
infancy and old age, and of infirm and sick persons. #

   Contrasting the trade of London in the year 1793 with
that of 1836, without entering into many details, it may
be briefly remarked, that London has increased in extent,

population, commerce, wealth and power beyond general

conception. But wishing to confine points respecting

London to trade and its accommodation, it may be briefly

stated, that according to accurate documents there were

entered for the year

1836 Colliers                                                 8,162.

Coasters (including steam-vessels). . . . 12,603
British ships engaged in Foreign trade 3,845

Foreign ships                                                 1,465

                                                          26,075

  I* Since writing the above avail myself with pleasure of an article in

the John Bull, of the 5th of March, 1837, as taken from Frazer's

IMagazine for that month, to which refer.

Hospitals, dispensaries, infirmaries, and other medical or surgical   78
        charities                                                     +,

Institutions and schools for the instruction of orphans and other

necessitous children (exclusive of parochial, charity, and

infant schools)            ;

Pensionary, annuitant, loan and other societies                       63
                                                                      10
Philanthropic societies, asylums, and schools of reform               29
                                                                      46
Miscellaneous societies for the relief of the distressed  _#          18
Religious societies and schools

Educational foundations and school societies

                           Making an aggregate of                     288

Benevolent  institutions,  some of which are unequalled in the world for
46 METROPOLIS AND THE

That the importation of coal into London was for

the years                   Tons of coal I 1,856,606
       1825 Colliers 6,564

1826    )7 6,810            ╗ 2,040,291
1827    ╗ 6,491             ╗ 1,882,321
1828    >f 6,750            tt 1,960,559
1829    >f 6,992            ╗ 2,018,975
1830    yy 7,108            ╗ 2,079,275
1831                        ft 2,045,292
1832    ╗ 7,006             >y 2,139,078
        ╗ 7,528

1833    ╗ 7,077             ╗ 2,010,409

1834    >y 7,404            >> 2,078,685

1835    ╗ 7,958             >j 2,298,812

1836    >j 8,162            >> 2,398,352

Bein░" a very great increase over the importation of coals

into London in 1793.

   This great increased consumption proceeds from the
increase of population, the number of manufactories,

distilleries, breweries, private and public works using

steam-engines, and particularly the supply of steam-boats
plying from London to Margate, &c. and outward-

bound.

extent, and the munificence of their provisions; which statement may be

coupled with the feet, that for the support of education, Bible and 1
societies, no less a sum than Б552,376 18s. 2d. (the actual recript for the
years 1835 and 1836) is annually Subscribed m the United kingdom.
      PORT OF LONDON.                                             47

A Statement of the number of Vessels entered            inwards
   and cleared outwards at the Port of London,
                                                        for the
   years 1793, 1835, and 1836.

1793  Inwards.                                Outwards.

                          Vessels.  Tonnage.  Vessels.  Tonnage.

Colliers.... 3,500                  700,000
Coasters .. 6,473                   496,760

      9,973 1,196,760

From all other parts :              498,651
                                    177,019
  British.... 2,574

   Foreign.... 1,193

      3,767 675,670

1835

   Colliers.... 7,958
   Coasters .. 12,513

(including steam-
      vessels.)

                          20,471 2,764,982

From all other parts :              740,256   2,884     130,910
                                    188,983   1,092     197,491
   British.... 3,780
   Foreign.... 1,057

      4,837 929,148                           3,976 828,401
48 METROPOLIS AND THE

1836                                             Vessels.   Tonnage.

                              Vessels. Tonnage.

  Colliers.... 8,162 1,650,177
   Coasters.. 12,730 1,160,701

      20,892 2,810,878                           11,167 1,115,857

From all other parts :  772,046                  2,964      662,445
                        255,875                  1,444      257,120
  British.... 3,845

   Foreign.... 1,465

      5,310 1,027,921                            4,408 919,565

      POPULATION OF THE METROPOLIS.

1811  Males                                      457,281
      Females                                    652,265

1821  Males                                      1,009,546
      Females
                                                   570,236
                                                   655,458

                                                 1,274,800

1831  Males                                      683,059
      Females                                    788,882

                                                 1,471,941
          PORT OF LONDON.                49

    London may be compared to a great hive, where the
drones are as busily employed in trifling life away, as the
industrious bees are in collecting honey for their winter

store ; and the busy throng from morn to night, and night
to morn, are ever on the wing. There is no city where

there are so many spectacles, exhibitions, plays, museums,

gardens, and lectures as in London, to occupy the time of
the wealthy, the learned, and the gay. It has been stated
that thirty or forty years ago there were about 200,000
persons passing and repassing London, Westminster, and
Blackfriars Bridges in a day ; but what must the floating
circulation of a dense population of so great a city as at

present, where perhaps there may be above 400,000

persons moving daily by land and water : as an example,

I recollect in the summer either of 1836 or 1837, in

walking from Gower Street along the New Road to the

Bank, I met about thirty omnibuses, and I was overtaken

by about twenty going to the Bank.

   It is stated in the Morning Post of 2d October, 1837,

that within the limits of the three-penny post there are

850 short stages.

In 1826 there were 1,150 hackney coaches and cabriolets.

1828  ,,  1,200

1830  ,,  1,265

The number at present licensed is 1797.

   It may be further stated, that above forty steam-vessels

a week clear out to all parts beyond the Thames, or about
2,500 steam vessels per annum, which clear out from the
Port of London, exclusive of those that go daily from
50 METROPOLIS.
Gravesend and Margate, which go many hours in the day,
as well as those that ply from London to Westminster
Bridge every quarter of an hour in the day.

   It has been estimated that about 400,000 persons in a

year go from London by steam-boats to Margate and
places adjacent.

                              i
    COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

It is not intended, in a little tract of this nature, to enter

into speculative discussions, but, perhaps, when some

other objects are intimately connected with the state of

society and our prosperity, to allude to them as points
that have contributed to make many changes in the state

of England, may not be uninteresting.
   England, for its extent, may be considered one of the

most interesting and important countries in the world as
to population, wealth, agriculture, commerce, and manu-
factures. Its territory may be divided into tillage, pas-
turage, woods, forests, with many navigable rivers. Its
tillage affords wheat for men, oats for horses, and barley for

beer and spirits. It possesses coal, iron, copper, lead, and

other mines, and produces wool and timber, and has exten-
sive fisheries. About 961,134 families were employed in
Great Britain in agricultural pursuits in 1831. Manu-
factures, trade, and commerce with other avocations employ
the rest.

    Since 1763 its tillage and pasturage have increased by
enclosures, improvements, and cultivation. Roads, canals,
and railways have favoured the above objects, and stran-
gers greatly admire the fertility, verdure, enclosures, and
woods in this country.

                                                           e2
52 COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

    The population of England may be divided into two
classes, the rich and the poor; which, like the oak growing
with its growth and strengthening with its strength, are
the support of each other, and the wealth of the one and
the labour of the other not only contribute to the union
and happiness of both, but give vigour and power to this
favoured land we live in ; and it may truly be called Britain
the Great.

   There are few countries like ours as to population, civi-
lization, education, industry, morals, justice, and com-
merce, with such laws for the protection of person and
property, and the administration of justice and good
order.

   It may not be uninteresting in this place to give a state-
ment of the population of England, Wales, and Scotland,

taken from Parliamentary Reports for the years 1811,
1821, and 1831.

       1811

       ENGLAND.          WALLS.   SCOTLAND.
                         291,633     826,191
Males  4,575,763         320,155     979,497

Females . . . 4,963,064           1,815,

       9,538,827         611,788

       1821.

Males  5,483,679         350,485     983,568
                         366,951  1,109,904
Females... 5,777,758
                                  2,093,456
       11,261,437        717,438
        COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.                  53

            1831.

Males       6,376,627   394,543     1,114,816
Females...                          1,250,298
            6,714,378   411,619

            13,091,005  806,182 2,365,114

   The population of England has much increased within
the last sixty or seventy years ; but little can be relied
upon beyond the Population Returns of 1811, 1821, and

1831.

   Agriculture has in like manner much increased, nearly
keeping pace with the increase of population ; and it will

appear that tillage and pasture, under the many inclosure

acts passed during the last fifty years, and an improved

system of the rotation of crops with the aid of potatoes
now to be found all over the country, and other improve-
ments in agriculture, have made a most rapid progress,
and have brought an immense extent of country into cul-
tivation for the food of man and beast.

   It appears from tables taken from authorities of an

early date that the state of production of corn in England
was as follows :--

Wheat                    Davenant,  Smith's Corn Tracts,
Barley                       1700.              1765.
Oats
Rye         Qrs. 1,750,000               4,046,603
                     3,375,000           4,603,272
                     2,000,000            4,240,947
                     1,250,000            1,063,652

                     8,375,000          13,954,474
54 COMMERCE \M) ENGLAND.

   It is not intended in this summary statement to give a
detail of the present state of grain of all kinds ; this is

left to those who better understand the subject. Suffice it

to state generally, that I conceive that in years of plenty,

Great Britain may be said nearly to maintain itself from

its own means, and that foreign corn is not permitted to
be imported but under certain regulations, and subject to

its paying a duty on its importation for home consump-

tion!

   It has been sometimes stated, that bullion goes out of

the country to pay for the importation of foreign corn ;

but it will, I believe, be found that the exportation of
bullion and its reimportation depend more on the state of

the exchanges in our commercial proceedings than on our
importation of corn ; and that the corn imported into this
country forms a part of the payment for the manufactures

exported.

   It may be further stated, that in general the climate of

England is temperate, the people healthy and industrious

and much attached to their country.  There are tew

countries where there is so much medical aid and assis-

tance for the rich and the poor, and where, in general,

the people remain stationary as to health and longevity fbt

many years without much alteration.

   It was a saying of King James or Charles that there

were more working hours in the day, and days in the yea*

in England than elsewhere, which maybe partly owing to

their being fewer saints' days, fast-days, and holidays.

   In the register of the population for the years 1S11,

IS'Jl, and hS31 will be found the number of males and

females, marriages, births, and burials, and also a state-

ment of then ages, which will confirm the above represent
COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.  55

  tations ; and from the attention that has been paid to the

 keeping of the register by various insurance companies, great
 public benefit has been derived by ascertaining ages and
 aiding medical men with respect to health and the cure of
 their patients. Longevity is also to be found in every class
 of society. There are above forty life insurance companies
 established in London, under various plans and modifica-
 tions, but all tend to the great point of establishing the
 state of health and the duration of life.

     There are few countries that have so many natural and
 acquired advantages as this. Our mines, fisheries, and

 natural productions are our great sources of wealth. We
 are ourselves the great consumers of those productions,
and likewise the great consumers of our imports, and by
the means of our industry and commerce have the greatest
intercourse with every quarter of the globe, partly owing
to our geographical position and vicinity to the continental

ports of Europe. It is amongst our many advantages that

England pays great attention to the giving an early educa-
tion, by parochial, national, and other schools and insti-
tutions, to her people, with moral and religious habits,
and we owe much of our prosperity and happiness in life
to the early impressions we imbibe from our parents in
infant years.

   It may be also stated, that in this country, as in others,

great respect is paid to the rites of marriage, baptism, and
burial, and that when these are combined with the bless-
ings of an early education, with habits of order and disci-

pline, they greatly improve the civilization and moral and
religious impressions of the people.

   The English are much attached to their country, and
are great lovers of justice and good faith, and are liberal
56 COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

in promoting works of public utility. There are few
countries where there are so many monumental records of
public and private virtue as in England, which serve as
examples to the rising generation ; and the nation has
frequently shown respect to the memory of those who have
deserved well of their country, by public funerals or public
monuments.

   I was lately at Windsor-Castle, which I conceive to be

the finest building of its kind for grandeur of style, anti-
quity, and preservation, in this country; and amongst some
of the most interesting of its objects may be reckoned St.
George's Chapel, the Waterloo Gallery, and the Gallery
of Ancient Armour, which has been fitted up with peculiar
taste and chasteness.

   In the armory were seen the banners of Marlborough,
Nelson, and Wellington.

   Nelson, our great naval commander, was buried with
national honours, and it is hoped, that when cur great
military hero shall have terminated his mortal career, he
will be buried with equal respect, and that Fame will
inscribe the name of Wellington on her tablet as one --

                              " Who loved his country
                                     Ami who wished it well."

     Literature and the arts and sciences are also much en-
couraged in this country, and may be happily exemplified
by (he British Museum, whose collections of Egyptian,
Grecian, and Roman sculpture remain unrivalled. Its
library is extensive, and bas lately been enriched by the
valuable collection of George the Third, which was pre-
sented t*> the nation by George the Fourth,
COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.            57

   The Parliament have recently voted liberal sums for en-
larging the building of the Museum, which will, when
completed, form a splendid national establishment.

   Though we have not so large a building or collection of
pictures and statues in the National Gallery as the Louvre
at Paris, yet they are annually increasing, and this country
happily possesses within itself a great collection of the first
masters, and the British Institution is annually furnished for
exhibition from the private collections of the nobility and
gentry with pictures of ancient masters for exhibition to
the public; and we have had for many years an annual
exhibition at the Royal Academy of painting and sculp-
ture, by living artists, which does them great honour, and
reflects much credit on the Society of Arts for having been
the original promoters of the Royal Academy.

    The annual exhibition of paintings in water colours is
improving every year и and the National Gallery, though
at present in its infancy, possesses some admirable pictures

of the highest order.
   Whilst we are looking at foreign schools of art, England

should endeavour to form a school of her own, founded

upon the laws of Nature, which are simple, grand, and
beautiful.

   The British Association may also be mentioned as

another instance of the improvement of the times. It is

extending its influence, to the great benefit of the com-

munity.                          both on a great and on a

   In machinery and mechanics,

small scale, we are unrivalled.

   There are few countries that possess so much valuable
statistical knowledge as Great Britain, from her parliamen-
tary and other reports and publications on the state of
  58 COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

  agriculture, commerce, manufactures, and science, both
  theoretical and practical, from which this country has

 derived the greatest advantages. A further reference may
 be made to Campbell's Political Survey of Great Britain,

 published in 1774, which contains an important statistical
 account of different parts of Great Britain at that period.
 Reference may be also made to Davenant, Adam Smith,
 Colquhoun, Tooke, M'Cullock, M'Queen, and other able
 writers on political economy.

    Without touching upon the system of poor laws, which
 forms one of the most important and intricate concerns in
 the whole scale of political economy, and which is now
 under a great public experiment, it may be stated that the
 introduction of small allotments of land, let out at an easy
rent to the industrious and labouring class of society, has
 afforded great aid and relief to those that would have been
much distressed if it had not been for such resources ; and

no less than 75,000 families have adopted this plan with a

prospect of a great increase as stated by " The Labourers'
" Friend." This system, with the aid of Savings' Banks,

will, it is hoped, promote industry, and increase the com-
forts and improve the morals of society.

    When our commerce was in its infancy it might have
stood in need of prohibitions, bounties, props, and fences ;
but it has taken so deep a root in our soil that it promotes
agriculture and manufactures, and we can bear a storm
without much apprehension, and may lessen many of
our restrictions and prohibitions without injury. We owe

much of our power to agriculture, manufactures, industry,
and commerce.

   This is not an opinion of a day, but was expressed in a

letter written by me to Whittled keene, Esq., M.P., who,
COMMERCE A1SD ENGLAND.  59

as one of the Committee, favoured the formation of Docks

in London in the year 1796, and of which the following is
a copy : --

                                     London, 17 th April, 1796.
         Whitshed Keene , Esq., M.P., Sfc. Sfc. Sfc.
      Sir,

    Permit me to request your acceptance of three little

pieces respecting questions of great public utility, that

were drawn up without much time for arrangement or cor-

rection.

   The Letter to a Friend embraces objects of great moment
beyond the simple Port accommodations of Docks, and

were detached hints suddenly thrown together at his re-
quest, who wished them committed to writing without
delay. The letter has so many marks of haste about it

that I now almost repent its having made its appearance
in its crude state ; but I hope objects and intentions will

apologize for its imperfections.

   With respect to the question you asked yesterday, as to
the extent of our commerce, and what proportion of our

Iexports were the effects of a depot, beg to say that our

commerce is of a peculiar nature, and that our great lines
of imports lie in a few leading articles and the products of
a few countries. We are the great importers and the great
consumers of those imports, such as tea, wine, sugar, &c. ,
and of those imported, such as require the hand of in-
dustry to bring them into circulation. We are also our
own great customers. While we are looking with wonder

at the great increase of our foreign trade, I look with

greater astonishment at the extent of our home consump-

tion, which makes me almost incline to doubt on many
 60 COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

 of the generally received opinions about commerce ; and
 that we must possess peculiar natural advantages to be

 able, with so few native products in return, to command
 such a commerce as we do, both as to our imports for

consumption and our exports. I conceive that the great

 blessing which preponderates in our favour are our coals,
iron, lead, tin, and copper, our industry, and the great
 security to property.

    Of our foreign trade, our exports consist of a mixed

assortment, and may be divided into three parts. The
first, consisting of foreign produce in the same state as
imported ; and when we are merely the depot, waiting for
the advantages or competitions in markets, with all accu-
mulated benefits of freights and charges that attach them-
selves to the import and re-export of such articles as
tobacco, rice, and India goods.

    The second, foreign products that undergo manufac-
turing. To these we attach a portion of the labour and
industry of this country, which forms no small part of our
capital, and which enables us to import and consume to
the extent that we do. To ascertain the value and extent
of our trade has been and will always be an imperfect

thing ; and we must only j udge of it by its influence and

effects, and in proportion as we encourage commerce we
increase wants and the means of supplying them.

   Not returning home till late last night prevented my
sending the paper I promised sooner, and I remain,

                                     Sir,
                          Your obedient and bumble servant,

                                            Wm. V\l CHAN.

   London is the metropolis Of the kingdom, and i> seated
COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.                                  61

at the head of a fine navigable river, nearly ninety miles

from the sea ; commanding the greatest portion of the com-

merce of the kingdom ; and has an easy access to every

port of England, and other parts of the world.         It
   Liverpool is next to London in commercial objects.

is situated in the middle of a great agricultural and manu-

facturing district, and commands an extensive and in-

creasing commerce with Ireland and America, and all

foreign parts.

   In the article of cotton only, Liverpool now imports from
1,200,000 to 1,400,000 bags per annum, which in a manu-

factured state by British labour, may almost be considered
as a domestic product ; a very large part of which is for
home consumption. Its exportation in a manufactured
state to America and elsewhere is considerable, and in
the shape of twist, forms a great article of export to Ger-
many, Russia, and Prussia.

   From the insecurity of the river Mersey, owing to the
tides, the whole of its trade, foreign and coastwise, is

obliged to resort to docks, to load and unload, and is sub-

ject to the payment of dock rates. In the docks ships

load and discharge afloat, or in half-tide docks or basins,

open to the tide grounding in the latter at low-water.

   With respect to the commerce and shipping of London,
it is differently circumstanced to that of Liverpool ; and
within its port to Bugsby's Hole, it is capable of holding
about 1,400 masted vessels at a time, including colliers
and coasters, which must lie and discharge in the river.
Foreign ships mostly lie at Limehouse Hole, leaving a
portion of British and Foreign ships, valuable as to cargo,
to resort to the docks at pleasure, which may hold 1000

or 1200 sail at a time.
62 COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

    Bristol has converted a part of the River Avon into a
floating dock for the reception of its ships ; making a new-
cut for the river, and thus giving rise to the remark, that
they have an artificial river and a natural dock.

   Hull has also extensive docks for the reception of its
trade, having converted the Military Foss, as has been
since done at Havre de Grace, into a wet dock; thus proving
the increasing power and influence of commerce.

   The four Rivers, the Thames, the Mersey, the Humber,
and the Severn, connect and combine with the aid of
roads, canals, and railways, the various manufactures with
our Foreign trade.

   It may be interesting to state an account of the official

value of the imports into and exports from Great Britain
in the year 1836; distinguishing the trade with France
and the United States of America from that with other
parts, and without comment.

1836.               IMPORTS      EXTORTS

                    Into Great Britain. From Great Britain.

France               3,1 15,452   2,338,972
                    10,918,835   15,017,625
United States ....

Other parts         41,765,396   80,861/217

Total to all parts . . Б55,799,683 Б97,217,814

   To which may be also added a summary statement of
the imports and exports to and from the United States,
with all parts; distinguishing the proportion of the value of
the commerce with Great Britain and France respectively,
          COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.                   63

taken from official documents for the following years, each
ending the 30th September. The dollar may be valued at
4s. 6d. and the tables speak for themselves.

YEARS.          IMPORTS.         EXPORTS.

                Dollars.         Dollars.

1829            74,492,527   72,358,671

1831            103,191,124  81,310,583

1833            108,118,311  90,140,433

1834            126,521,332  104,346,973

1835            149,859,742  121,693,577
1836            189,980,035  128,663,040

1837            140,989,217  117,419,376

1838            112,000,000  103,136,000

          N.B. The return for 1838 not official.

   The falling off in the amount of Exports and Imports^
since 1836, has been occasioned by the deranged state of
the trade and currency since the commencement of that
year, and is now reviving.

              Of which to and from Great Britain.

YEARS.    ....  IMPORTS.       EXPORTS.

   1829            Dollars.       Dollars.
  1831          25,279,489   24,291,693
   1833         44,093,717   32,989,519
  18 34         37,845,814   32,303,450
   183 5        47,242,807   44,212,097
  1836          61,249,527   52,180,874
  1837          78,645,968   57,875,213
                44,886,943   54,583,570
64             COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

    YEARS.     Of which to and from France.

         1829  IMPORTS.               EXPORTS.
        1831
        1833    Dollars.                   Dollars.
        1834   8,838,978              11,749,395
       1835
       1836    14,065,743             9,164,802
       1837
               13,431,678             13,772,221

               17,141,173             15,508,974

               22,915,376             19,751,244

               36,615,417             20,939,100

               22,083,614             19,690,578

   It may be further stated, that the discovery of America
has produced some of the greatest changes ever known in
the history of the world. It has led to conquests and
settlements in various parts of that great continent ; and
England was amongst the foremost to avail herself of the

advantages to be derived from it. Amongst other events
in more recent times, the war in 1756" and the peace of
1763 were productive of great and important results to
this country. It gave tranquillity and security to the
British colonies, and added Canada to our foreign do-
minions, as well as many acquisitions in the East and West
Indies. The result of this war produced an increase of our

ships, colonies, commerce, and revenue.
   The war with America commencing in the year 1775 was

followed by that with France ; which events were revo-
lutionary as to government, dominions and commerce.
The war with America ended in its Independence, in the

year 1783; but by subsequent events, our intercourse with
the United States has produced a still greater revolution
by the extension of our commerce, compared with the loss
of our colonies.
COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.  65

    France, jealous of our dominion at sea, and of our
marine and commerce, aimed, with the combined fleets of

its allies, to destroy our naval superiority.
    But the engagements of Rodney, Howe, Duncan, St.

Vincent, Nelson, and others, destroyed their naval force,
and left their colonies and commerce unprotected ; which

tended to increase our commerce, and led to the improve-

ments of the port of London.
    The Americans, after their Independence, carried on

much of their commerce with our colonies ; which trade was
chiefly composed of British and American manufactures,

either on their own account, or as a neutral power to carry

that commerce into their own ports ; or else into English
ports, as places of security, during the war, until they
could be dispatched, with safety, to the continental ports of
Europe, and then to be realized or re-shipped . The English
cruisers made many captures, and brought in many ships

for detention and adjudication; thus raising many intricate
points in our Admiralty Courts, respecting neutral property

and ships. Buonaparte, wishing as much as possible to
prevent all intercourse with English ports, attempted to
blockade almost all the ports of Europe against the trade
of England in every shape, in order to depress it.

    This produced a reaction, by the introducing of Orders in
Council, neutral bottoms, and false papers, with high insu-
rance at thirty per cent, against every risk. Many of these
were taken or seized in port, and others arrived safe at

their place of destination. In both cases the continent

received supplies.

   All these changes had a tendency to infringe on, or
break down the policy of our navigation acts, and ulti-
66 COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.

mately to mitigate the rigor in the observance of them,
prior to the general peace of 1815.

   In 1815 the ever memorable battle of Waterloo (when
the Duke of Wellington with the "aid of the allies com-

pletely defeated Buonaparte) created another great change
in the state of things, and gave peace and tranquillity to
Europe. Armies turned their faces homewards, seeking
employment by agriculture, manufactures, commerce, and

domestic objects, encouraging industry to create property
and produce revenue. This new situation of things created
yet still greater changes in our commercial relations and
treaties; decreasing the system of prohibitions by a
mutual exchange of a more liberal nature, either in the
reduction of duties, or trading upon more liberal terms.
The countries of Europe by a long peace have increased
their own advantages and comforts ; and as they increase
in population and wealth, they will also require fresh wants ;
and in the means of supplying them, England will have
little to fear in a great scale from rivalship, having so many
natural and acquired advantages ; and by improving upon
herself, she may still retain her power, influence, and

prosperity.

   It may be further observed, that England has improved

upon its own discoveries, and has encouraged voyages for
the increase of knowledge and science ; and has also paid
great attention to the civilization of other countries by the
means of Missionaries, and the circulation of the Bible to

all countries through the agency of religious societies of
all denominations. Further information on this head will
be found in the Miseellaneous Part.

   'Hie Tree of Knowledge is so deeply rooted in the soil
COMMERCE AND ENGLAND.      67

of this country, as to be favourable to the pursuit of the
arts and sciences in all their branches, and to the education
of the mind ; and the fruits of industry have given wealth,
greatness, and power to England, and we may conclude
by saying,--

   Happy, happy England ! Sea-girt Isle ! May she long
remain, the living monument of her own fame, and may

other nations follow her example !

                       f2
MISCELLANEOUS PART

                                                                 ON

            VARIOUS SUBJECTS.
      MISCELLANEOUS PART,

                                                            ETC. ETC.

                                       No. 1.

              NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

                            To Mr. SewelL

        Sir,

   Your useful Magazine having engaged the public atten-
tion to a great national object, the importance of Naval

Architecture both to our Navy and our Commerce, I am

encouraged, from the reception you gave a little piece on
that subject in your Appendix to your Tracts on Naval
Architecture, to submit the following Hints to your consi-
deration respecting Inland Navigation, from an old Cor-
respondent. Both objects have an intimate connection
with each other ; and Great Britain owes much of her
power, prosperity, and welfare, to the encouragements
given to them. These Hints were written about two years

ago for a particular object ; and if encouragement is
72 HINTS AND QUERIES

given, I hope to see a Society formed for the Improve-

ment of Inland Navigation, similar to the one that has

been instituted for Naval Architecture What is here sug-

gested, may be useful to a numerous class of your readers

who have not an opportunity of perusing larger works,

containing in many respects similar information. You

have already given us one proof of your readiness to invite

communications on useful projects ; and I am persuaded

you will be equally so, on another that may be no less useful

to our internal interests and resources.

   London,     I am, Sir, yours,

July 1, 1792.                              A. B.

HINTS AND QUERIES ON INLAND NAVIGATION
                           AND CANALS.

   A pamphlet, entitled " The History of Inland Naviga-
" tion in England," published some years, having been

long out of print, and it being proposed to re-publish the
same with improvements, and to continue it to the present
time, the following Hints and Queries are submitted for
consideration : --

   The Duke of Bridgewater's Canal, begun in 1759, oc-
casioned many similar projects; and so great has been the
spirit excited, that the Legislature have passed no I
than thirty-eight Acts of Parliament for the making or
perfecting of Canals, or tor improving the Inland Naviga-
tion of this country. Many of these undertakings are
finished ; some have tailed, and others are at this moment
carrying into execution. A complete history of them,
Btating their particular objects, their extent, and their
ON INLAND NAVIGATION AND CANALS.                    73

effects, cannot but be interesting to the public, who have

been so much benefited by them.

   There have been, perhaps, few objects of internal policy
that have so much called forth the powers and resources of
the country as Inland Navigation. Rivers and Canals

are to a country, what arteries are to the human body.

They aid agriculture and manufactures, and create new
markets while they extend old ones. Inland Navigation

has not only been the "means of enlarging our foreign com-
merce, but of giving birth to an internal one ; which, with

all our predilection for foreign commerce, has far exceeded

it in extent, value, and importance. The influence which

this Inland Navigation and Commerce has had upon our

industry, population, and resources, has been so great, as

in many instances to have changed the whole appearance

of the countries through which Canals passed.
IfThe reasons are plain.
                          we appear as consumers, by

means of Canals we are enabled to import more cheaply ;

if as producers, we add facility both to imports and ex-
Ifports.
          the materials of a manufacture lie dispersed,

Canals unite them, and at the same time supply the per-
sons concerned in the manufacture with all their necessaries

on the cheapest terms. The land-owner, whether as pos-

          a

                               it

                                                                                 a

                                                                              it,
sessing the surface of the land or the mines below

necessarily finds his advantage from new markets, and

from having cheaper carriage both for his manure and

his productions. The intrusion upon his pleasure-grounds

he may the more easily forgive, when he recollects the

gain in return to his estate, his frequent absences from his

country residence, and the many defeats in Parliament

which Canal-undertakers in general have experienced, solely

on this account. Perhaps may be laid down, as gene-
74 HINTS AND QUER1L.>>

ral rule, that every Canal-Bill ought to pass in Parliament,

when guarded in the usual manner, unless it does an un-

fair injury to another better Canal. The gain belongs to

the public, the risk to the individual.

The experiment of Canals has now been made for some

years, and to an extent, perhaps, of seven or eight hun-

dred miles, and in most cases to the advantage of the

public, even to the increase in many instances of land-

carriage as well as navigation by sea.

   In some parts of the country prejudices still prevail ; and

the popular objection, that Inland Navigation destroys our

nursery for seamen, has frequently influenced the minds

of those who were not biassed by any particular local

Ifinterest.  in some instances the Coasting Navigation

                           in others                has been in-
may have been lessened by  it,
                                            a a it
creased and there can be no doubt, that great extension
;
of our distant navigation has arisen from system which
       is
has in effect converted the internal districts of our Islands

into Coasts. The security to the communications of the

parts of the country one with another during the tempes-

tuous months, and in time of war, which             is  afforded

by Canals, another advantage to be added to that of

their cheapness compared with land carriage. The ba.

and boatmen, though they have little experience in bois-

terous seas, are by no means unacquainted with the art of

managing and loading vessels, and they frequently rind

their way to our sea-ports, and thence into our navy. If

Inland Navigation may be supposed to form but few naviga-

tors for the sea, no lives are lost in these calm elements
             ;
                                                                                       ;
the di-eases of hot countries, so destructive to our seamen,

are also unknown in them and they admit oi no dee

non, whether m peace or war, to foreign services, then
ON INLAND NAVIGATION AND CANALS.                75

be employed by our rivals and enemies. In short, the

abundance of fresh-water rivers and lakes in a country has

never been thought a detriment to its navigation, but the

contrary : and there seems no reason for supposing artificial
Inland Navigation to be in this respect at all more in-
jurious. Besides, we are not always to judge of the

benefits of commerce, agriculture, and manufactures, from

instantaneous effects and consequences. Though they may

not in direct lines be immediately productive, yet when
taken in the greater outlines, they frequently in their

returns and collateral branches aid and assist each other,

by giving employment, circulation, and wealth.

When the history of Inland Navigation, and the spirit

of industry and commerce come to be better understood,

and popular prejudices decline in their influence, the ac-

curacy of these doubts respecting the utility of Canals,
If&c. will be questioned.
                           we object to Canals, we may

admit the same claims against the use of machines in our

manufactures, and implements of husbandry in our agri-

culture. The cheaper we can invent, labour, and trans-

port, the better we can contend with foreigners, and the

more hands are left at liberty to new calls, which a gene-
ral spirit of improvements and wants create ; Ingenuity
always proving itself the helpmate of Industry. The

present growing state of our agriculture, population, in-

ternal and external commerce, is the strongest proof of
our gaining ground ; notwithstanding our incumbrance of
debt, taxes, and dearness of labour.

There are two countries in particular, China and Holland,

that have systematically encouraged Canals and Inland

Navigation at the public expense. Neither of them wrant

wealth, population, or employment ; and Holland abounds
  76 HINTS AND QUERIES, &C.

 in navigation, as would China also, if her policy did not

 render her averse to foreign commerce. France has not
 been deficient in public undertakings of a similar nature.

 In England, the zeal of individuals has had a public sanc-

 tion, but the undertakings have been at private expense.
 We build palaces for our public offices ; and at an immense
 expense subsidize foreign troops in peace and war for
 objects of vain glory; or to balance hostile powers, in a
 manner oftener suited to our caprices and passions than to
 our interest ; but we do not sufficiently cultivate those
 seeds of convenience, comfort, and industry, that would
 shoot out into permanent strength, wealth, and revenue at

home. A time may come when the general system of all
Governments may look more to the encouragement of such

public undertakings as will tend to population, happiness,
and improvement, in a degree far superior to our present

ill-judged expensive systems.

    The object of the intended publication should be to give
a history of what has been done; to remove prejudices,
and establish information and encouragement in favour of
future undertakings. The following Queries and Hints are
submitted, among others that might be suggested to the
public. The information, plans, and hints of Engineers,
of the Agents of Canals, and of private individuals, on
the subject should be invited. The Queries and Hints are
all numbered, to save trouble ; and the Answers made

may refer to these Numbers.
   The history of Canals and Inland Navigation should not

be confined to England, or even Scotland or Ireland ; but
it should embrace those of other countries where they hn\<

been extended.

   London, September \5 t 1790;
                   QUERIES, HINTS, &c.

I. Plans of Inland Navigation as originally projected; and

    how far they have been carried into execution to the

   present time ; denoting particularly if any deviations ;

   and when those at present incomplete, are likely to be

    finished.

II. The causes or objects of each particular Inland Navi-

   gation having been undertaken, and the degree in
   which the execution of the event has corresponded with

    them.

III. The nature and extent of traffic carried on upon these

    navigations.

IV. The different productions and manufactures of those

   places, and their neighbourhood, through which the
   Canals, &c. pass ; or with what canals or rivers they
    communicate.
V. The effects which Canals, &c. have had upon the
   manners, industry, manufactures, population, agricul-
   ture, and mining, of the different countries where they
   have been found, especially compared with others simi-
   larly circumstanced ; and also the cheapness and facility
   with which markets have been supplied, compared with
    former times.

VI. How far the value of lands, rents, and labour, together

   with taxes and rates, have been affected by them.

VII. The number of people, horses, &c. supposed to be
78 QUERIES, HINTS, EJC.

   employed by, or in consequence of, the traffic on
   Canals, &c. especially compared with the former state
   of things.

VIII. The length, breadth, and depth of Canals ; also

   the form and size of them best adapted for use, perma-

    nency, and economy.

IX. The fall of water on each Canal or Inland Navigation,

   and the number of locks made or intended.
X. What have been the improvements made in the system

   of locks, inclined planes, sluices, bridges, &c. ; and how

   far they are still capable of improvement ?

XI. How far Canals are expensive in their repairs; and

the best remedies to prevent or remedy accidents or

    damages.                             the revenue and
                                         cases of Inland
XII. The prime and annual cost, and

   other profits to undertakers, in the

    Navigations, compared.

XIII. The tolls actually collected, compared with the ac-

    counts limited by the different Acts of Parliament.

XIV. The quantity of tonnage used upon Canals and im-

    proved Inland Navigations estimated per annum; with
    the size, forms, and draught of barges when loaded.

XV. What is the distance, time, and expense of convey-

    ance, respectively, along the Canals, fee to the four
    great extremities, viz. London, Bristol, Liverpool, and
   Hull ; or as far as goods can be water-bom to and from

    each place ; and the same for intermediate distances ?

XVI. What is the time, distance, and expense of land-

carriage in the above cases ; and where the water-car-

   riage terminates ?

Wll. What is the comparative time and expense, con-

   venience Of uieonvcnieiKv, of iand-carria^e, in the above
QUERIES, HTNTS, ETC.  79

   cases, as opposed to that of Canals or other Inland

    Navigation ?

XVIII. What is the time, expense, and damage, accruing

    in conveyances in the above cases by sea, both in winter
    and summer : and also the estimated sea-risks in peace,

    and in war ?

XIX. What convenience or inconvenience, of a general,

    local, or particular nature, has been found to attend

    Canals and Inland Navigation, especially with respect

   to health, population, and employment ; also the drain-

   ing or otherwise of the soil, &c.

XX. WThether Canals cannot be made convenient and use-

   ful sluices through bogs ? and to enquire, How far the ex-
   periments making in Ireland have succeeded ? with the

    general observations from them.

XXI. How far Canals can be made subservient to the pur-

   poses of agriculture, by flooding of meadows or turning
   of mills, &c. ?

XXII. What contrivances, implements, or machinery, have

   been employed for constructing Canals and improving
   Inland Navigation ; and what species of boats, barges,
   bridges, cranes, and other machinery, are now used
   upon them, or in connexion with them ?

XXIII. What curious or instructive incidents have occur-

   red during the course of these undertakings ; or what

   curious and instructive anecdotes respecting the parties
   in any way concerned in them.

XXIV. What is the best system for management and in-

   spection of the concerns of a Canal or Inland Naviga-
   tion, whether formed or forming ; and what particulars

   are most to be attended to or guarded against upon this
   occasion ?
80 QUERIES, HINTS, ET( .

XXV. To invite communications of plans, drawings,

models, or explanations of projected or of executed

Canals, sluices, locks, inclined planes, boats, bridges,
or Canal machinery and implements; and in order to

have information conveyed by them as perfect as possi-

ble, deviations made, or likely to be made, should be

particularly noticed. In Canals there can be little

danger of rivalships in communications of this nature,

as they are always attached to particular spots, and for

particular objects: the advantages of them are local;

and when communicating with other Canals, the advan-

tages become more general, both of a public and of a

private nature. By a freedom in communication we

may gain experience and improve advantages. Even a
knowledge of defects, and of the causes of the failure

   of projects, may not be without their uses.

XXVJ. Whether a good map of England may not be

   made, shewing the state of Inland Navigation, that

would be simple in its construction without deranging

other objects; the lines between the counties to be plain,

and the counties to be distinguished by a few plain sim-

ple colours ; rivers to be described how far they are
navigable by an anchor ; and the Canals with three

strong colours, to distinguish th  ited, executing,

and projected. If the mountainous parts of the country

were added, with local mineralogieal remarks, 8tC 8tБ.

the attention of the public might be directed to proper

objects with some success,

London, September, 15, 1790.       A. H.
                                       No. 2.

              NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

                                  [Continued from page 8.]

    To the Editor of Payers on Naval Architecture.

        on the preservation of timber, etc.

        Sir,
  I have read your little collection on Naval Architecture

with pleasure, and though no theoretical or professional

man, I have annexed what occurred to me on the occasion.

If it gives hints to others I shall be happy in the oppor-

tunity of drawing out the sentiments of those better in-

formed.
    The art of building of vessels has been, in one shape or

other, general and common to all nations and ages. Ne-
cessity has been the mother of invention; and what acci-
dent has discovered, design may have improved. The
floating of trees on the surface of the waters may have
given birth to the use of boats, and the hollowing of them
fit for passage or burden has been an after invention.

    Throughout the globe we discover a promptness and
similarity of manners that is singular. Man differs but
little from man in his inventions for the common purposes
of life : climate and products may vary, but he soon learns
how to adapt them to his wants and uses. This is pecu-
liarly verified in the art of ship-building in all its various

gradations of pettiaugers, proas, boats, sloops, &c; the
knowledge and use of them is general. In many coun-

 tries or islands we find vessels used that have been only
82 NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

scooped or burnt out of single trees. The ribbing and
planking of vessels, with the use of sails and oars, and

their size, construction, and materials, have varied and

improved in proportion to the conveniences and accommo-
dations of the several climates in which they have been
found, and they have been well adapted to the occasions

and wants of man in his most untutored state.
    Though this system and principle has been the same, it

has belonged to civilization and to commerce, among the
more enlightened nations, to extend their ideas as their
wants have increased ; and ship-building, with all its im-
provements, is now become one of the greatest efforts of
man in his most cultivated state. Notwithstanding our
skill, we have yet much to learn, by the application of
general principles to many points that have a near relation

to the art of ship-building. It is not perhaps so much a

question how to invent or make a floating body, as how to
govern that floating body in all its varied forms by some
common principles, under all given circumstances of burden
and despatch in the elements they have to contend with.

    From the want of uniting theory more with practice,
the inquiries of our men of science have been very limited
and much confined to the speculations of the closet. To

become more useful, their pursuits and knowledge should
be applied more to the result of experience. Our practical
men have neither leisure or ability to follow up abstruse or
abstracted speculations; and it maybe admitted as a doubt,
whether inventions and discoveries, with the improvements
Upon them, have not been more rapid from among practical
nun than from those who have had no experience beyond

a speculative and theoretical education. A time may come
when our attention to the higher classes of mathematics
NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.  83

and philosophy may lean more to points of practical
utility; and perhaps none is more capable of study and
inquiry than ship -building and navigation, with all their
collateral branches dependent upon utility, health, and
accommodation. The French have employed some of

their best Academicians to write on these subjects, and
with much success; and the ships they have built are

strong proofs of the attention they have paid. We have
built from their models, and improved upon them.

    No ships have differed more from each other than those
which have been built upon the same models; and so
much do little causes frequently produce the greatest
effects, that the same vessels have been made fast or dull
sailers only by a difference in the size and positions of
masts, sails, and yards, the mode of stowage, and of
carrying of sail. Ships are like men, and their tempers
are to be managed alike ; they are tossed to and fro, the
one by the elements, and the other by the caprice of pas-
sion. In ships, much will depend upon the construction,
but much more perhaps upon management. Each size
will be found to have a proportion peculiar to itself, and
adapted to the nature of the service to which it is intended.
Fishes are of all sizes, forms, and constructions, each class

having its own proportion, and yet all enjoying the same
common properties for the element for which they were
intended. Ships are of a more complicated construction,
and have at all seasons to contend with two elements,

which are often at variance with each other, and are then

more the governed than the governing power.
   Though much attention has been paid to the choice,

age, cutting, and seasoning of timber, and the mode of
preservation, both in the primitive state of timber and

                                                      o2
84 NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

when worked up into shipping, yet an increasing attention
may create fresh discoveries; and as a few hints may
lead on to others, the following are submitted for that

purpose.

   In Sweden, a complaint was made that the timber float-
ing and seasoning for the use of their navy was frequently
infected with the worm. Linnaeus, on being consulted,

found that an insect deposited its eggs in the timber ; he

recommended the floating of the timber under water
during the season that the insect laid its eggs. The advice

was followed and the evil remedied.

   The following extract of a letter from a gentleman of

considerable philosophical observation, and whose situa-
tion gave him great opportunities of hearing the proposals
and projects of others, having found its way into some
circles, contains so much useful information, that a liberty
is taken in the transcribing of it.

   " A man who had been formerly concerned in ship-
" building, but for thirty years past has been a bridge-
" builder, had early in life observed, on examining worm-

H eaten ships, that the worm never eat within the seams

" where the caulking-ehisel and the oil, &c. entered. He
" had observed that the whaling- vessels would be eaten to
" a honey-comb, except a little above and a little below
" water, where the whale is brought into contact with the
u vessel, and lies beating against it till it is cut up. A
" plank lyirtg under water, at a mill oi' his, had been
" obliged to be renewed annually, because eaten up by the
" worm within the course of the year: at length a plank
" was accidentally put down, which for some purpose had

u been thoroughly impregnated with oil ; it remained

" seven yean without being affected. Hence he took the
   NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.  85

"  idea of heating  the timber as much as possible, and
"  of impregnating
                    it in that state with the liver-oil of

u the cod-fish. He had practised this for thirty years,

'и and there was no instance of the worm attacking his

" timbers, while those in neighbouring places were imme-
" diately destroyed. He had used the liver-oil of the
" cod because very thick, and therefore, as he supposes,
" more permanent in its effects ; he supposes some other
"
"  oils might do, but cannot speak of them experimentally.
   He says there will be no difficulty in heating the planks
" of a ship, after they are put on, as well as before ; but I
" do not recollect his mentioning ever to have tried it in
" the case of a ship."

   In America it is not uncommon to bore. a hole at the

end of timbers and pour oil into the same, from whence

it soon disperses itself throughout the pores. They also

apply salt between the ribs with great success. Salt-ships
are known to be well-seasoned and lasting.

   As the navy makes so formidable a part of our power and
of the ship-building of this country, it would be a proper

question to know the proportions best adapted to each

rate, so as to combine burden, sailing, fighting, and ac-

commodation for men; attending also to the size of masts

and construction of sails. It may be also admitted as a

question, What sized vessels are best calculated for the

transportation of troops, with respect to health, safety,

despatch, and national economy?

   It would be an object of moment to devise some plan

for the better preservation of timber between wind and
water ; to consider of the best mode of sheathing, cop-
pering, and paying of ships' bottoms ; and what is the

best preservative against the worm and foul bottoms, when
86 NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

ships are not coppered. Whether coppering of the navy

has had any effect upon the timber? and whether, when
in ordinary, it would or would not be advisable to let
them remain in that state ? Whether from the great wear

and tear of a ship being principally confined to its upper
works, by constant straining and exposure, it might not

be advisable to strengthen those parts by additional beams

and making the timbers in parts stronger ? What would
be the effect of laying double floors or crossways ?

    As ship-buildiiig forms so large a proportion of the
wealth and the power of the country, the thoughts of sci-
 entific men might be turned more to the art itself, when
 connected with all its collateral branches ; it might also be
 made more a part of nautical education.

    At Barcelona, in Spain, (a country none of the most

 public-spirited in these points,) an academy is established
 for the noble arts, and open to all the world, where all
 who attend are taught, gratis, drawing, architecture, sculp-
 ture, &c. There are seven halls, and one of them has a
 nautical school, where every thing of tables, paper, and
 masters are provided at the public expense ; it has already
 turned out above 500 good pilots. Government here,
 without making expensive establishments, might give
  encouragement and circulate information by useful books
  among all the lower and younger classes of officers and

  men.
     Societies might be formed and premiums given for the

  best nautical and practical essays on the various branches

  dependent on navigation.
      Medals might also be Btrack for successful candidates,

  as honour with sonic may prove as greet a spur as pecu-
  niary reward.
NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.  87

    Accounts might be invited of . the numberless accidents
 that have arisen occasioned by shipwrecks, loss of masts,

 rigging, sails, and rudders, and also from leaks and short

 allowances of provisions, with the remedies and substi-

 tutes that have been applied. A selection of them might
 be made for the use of the navy and merchant-service,
 which might serve as a vade mecum in moments of dis-
 tress and danger ; and to a work of so much utility and

 humanity the Admiralty might perhaps be induced to give
 encouragement and information. The loss of rudders and
 remedies applied might be instanced in the case of his
 Majesty's ship the Lion, Captain Cornwallis. The losses
of masts and sails are innumerable; and it is some comfort

to those in such distress, to observe that ships under jury-
masts seldom founder but ride out the storm like other
ships ; and if they do not make such despatch in their
voyages, they never invite danger by a press of sail.
Seamen should be impressed with the danger and folly of

deserting ships on the first alarm, when compared with
the still greater risks they run from open boats in the
middle of the ocean, and with short commons and no port

at hand ; also that ships have been frequently brought into

port when deserted by crews, and that others have been

lost only because they have been deserted. A seaman
should never abandon hope --it should be his motto as

well as his sheet-anchor ; he should be strongly impressed
with the idea that the buoyancy of a ship in itself in all
cases will keep her long afloat when leaky; that ships will
even swim when the water within is almost level with the

sea without; that cargoes in themselves are frequently

buoyant; and that if of a perishable nature, the packages

may, however, add to that buoyancy. The preservation of
88 NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

the Guardian man of war, Captain Riou, is a wonderful
instance of hardships, perseverance, and safety. The
narratives of Captains Inglefield, Bligh, and Wilson, with

many others, might be brought to encourage confidence

and banish despair.

   It might be recommended to officers and seamen to

encourage among themselves more the professional know-
ledge of the pilot. We often find expeditions and voyages
retarded or defeated from the want of a knowledge of

coasts and soundings, and the trusting always to men or

pilots when the former cannot be procured.

   It might be also a useful project to oblige all captains,

on clearing out their ships from our several custom-houses,

when paying for lights, &c, to take with them printed

directions and drawings of our light-houses along the

coasts with their bearings ; the expense would be only a
few shillings ; it would circulate information and save
many vessels that are lost, both outward and homeward
bound, from ignorance or want of pilots. Under the
patronage of Government and the Trinity- house, other

countries might be induced to make a mutual exchange of

papers and information.
    Health to seamen is a great point of nautical impor-

tance, and with all our precautions hitherto, it is still ca-
llable of further improvements. Had Captain Cook's voy-
ages been only undertaken with the idea of experiment!
to health instead of discoveries, they would have proved a

national object and a blessing to society, by adding to the
lives, health, and happiness of a useful class of men both
to the navy and to commerce. Seamen are as prodigal of
their lite as they are of their purse; and it is incumbent
upon us to add to the security o( their lives, when they
NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.            89

risk so much for our wealth and convenience. To guard
against short commons and long voyages, ships should be
                              stock of provisions than cus-
induced to take in a larger
tomary, and it would be      a happy discovery if we could

make some improvement        in the salting and preserving of

togp' rovisions.              greatly conducive to health.
   Ventilation is another point
Ships cannot in all weathers     their bedding upon

deck; and ventilators, as at present constructed, have been
rather of a passive than of an active nature. There is a

machine, which from its simplicity need not be expensive,
that an ingenious man has invented as a cooler in his

manufactory; it is on the principle of a winnowing ma-

chine in a box open at two ends, with a long wooden
trough that might be extended at pleasure ; it is worked
by one man, and can convey in or out of the hold of a

ship good or bad air at pleasure and to a great extent.

  I remember the late Mr. Blackburne, the surveyor,

relating that when he was at Gloucester the gaol fever
chanced to prevail there with great virulence, and the

object being to ventilate a small room that held about

thirty people, it was effected by the means of a small

coach-wheel with little sails, placed in a box over the
ceiling that had a funnel to go out of doors ; holes being

made in the ceiling, the air rushed through with great

impetuosity, when this wheel-machine set to work and

completely ventilated the gaol. It would be easy, by

means of a wheel or some other machine, to ventilate

actively the holds of ships in all weathers, and it would

be peculiarly serviceable to tenders and transports.

  I will not lengthen this letter, already too long, by an

apology, but congratulate you by observing that there is
 90 NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS.

faj- -dwabmalyhIatennntnhueneawels-^.hinl,aspv,btetsoanwuanterr,,c,ed.elweboeahpfkaicatyhtehunaeswtnedofsurwhkltihhspe,edeiirstlwocchorevtteohnewerysl,pmsae,,ramaemnewdpwrshoeiprlsdneahripitdsniscaouwitl.hiwnaneirgtiwh;ysoietusaahot,t
                      disease. SincerCy wishing we.l to your

June, 1791.  I am, Sir,

                              Yours, &c.
                                              A* B*
                                      No. 3.

         ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE.

                                  [Continued from page 9.]

      COPY OF THE VOTE OF THANKS, &c.

  " At a Court of Directors, London, June 1th, 1820.
  " The Sub-Governor, by desire of the Committee
" of Inspection, communicated to the Court the follow-

" ing Resolution of that Committee : --

   " The Governor, William Vaughan, Esq. having pre-
" sented to this Committee a Report, dated the 29th of
" May last, accompanied with several Books of State-
" ments and Calculations framed and arranged by himself,
" exhibiting results of our operations in the several bran-
" ches of the Sea, Fire, and Life Assurances and Annuities,
" down to the 30th of April, 1819, and shewing, in a
" most clear, perspicuous, and combined view, the state
 " of the Company's affairs at that period ; and it being
 " stated in that Report that it is the wish of Mr. Vaughan
 " that this said Report should be deposited with the pre-
 " sent and future Governors, in order to be referred to
 " when necessary by the Committee of Inspection :

    " The Committee have resolved, and do hereby resolve,
 " to express and record their cordial thanks to Mr.
 " Vaughan for the labour, skill, and judgment displayed
 " by him in framing these valuable books and documents;
 " and do further resolve, that it will be expedient and
  " advantageous to this Corporation that the system and
92 ROYAL EXCHANGE
u principles on which these documents have been framed

" by the Governor, should henceforth continue to be ap-
" plied to all future subsequent transactions in our several
" and respective branches of business under the superin-
" tendance of the Governors for the time being.

      " Resolved unanimously,
   " That the Governor be requested to sit for his picture,
" as a testimony of the high sense the Court entertain of
" the eminent services rendered by him to the Company ;
" and that the Committee of Treasury be requested to
" superintend the execution of the same."

             THE ANSWER.

tl  To  the  Governors   and Court of Directors  of the

             " Royal    Exchange Assurance.

" Gentlemen,            Ф London, Uth June, 1820.

   u I request the Court will be pleased to accept my best
" thanks for the honour conferred upon me, by directing

" the Resolutions of the Committee of Inspection to be
" entered upon the Minutes of this Court, respecting a
" Report and Statements of mine on the concerns of the
" Corporation up to the 30th of April, 1819.

   " It is peculiarly gratifying to my feelings, thai theCom-

u mittee of Inspection and this Court have been pleased
" so unanimously to approve of the plans and suggestion!
" in the Report and accounts presented by me, directing
" the hints and regulations therein suggested to be adopt-

u ed in all subsequent and future transactions, under the
ASSURANCE COMPANY.                                  93

" direction and inspection of the Governor for the time
" being.

  " The accompanying the Resolution with a request that

I" might sit for my picture, I cannot but accept as an

" additional token of the kindness of this Court ; and the
" more to be valued from its being to be placed near the
" picture of one of the best of men, # whom all loved and
" respected.

  " I beg to repeat my sincere acknowledgements for the
" honour conferred upon me; with the assurance that I

u shall use my best endeavours, in the performance of my

" duties, to promote the welfare and prosperity of this
" Corporation.

          " I have the honour to subscribe myself,
                             " Gentlemen,
" Your most obedient humble servant,
          " William Vaughan."
(Signed)

                                                              December 4, 1821.

   On a Resolution of the Court of Directors of the Royal
Exchange Assurance Company that the picture of William
Vaughan, the Governor, should be hung up in the Court-
Room,

   The Governor stated, that he should have been wanting

in duty and respect, if he had not returned them his sincere

thanks for the honour they had done him by permitting
that token of their kindness, now before him, to be
honoured with a place in their Court- Room ; an honour
the more to be valued from its being so seldom conferred,

                             * Edward Forster, Esq. Governor.
94 ROYAL EXCHANGE

and rendered peculiarly gratifying to his own feelings from
its being permitted to be the humble companion to the
portrait of that excellent character who so long and so hap-
pily presided over them.

    He had now spent the greatest and the most important
part of his life in the service of the Company ; a period
too long not to be sensible that its interests were amongst
his first duties, and the friendships and connexions he had
formed had been amongst the happiest events of his life.
That he valued their confidence and kindness with grati-
tude and pride, and would endeavour to discharge his
duties to the best of his abilities ; but when he looked at
the duties he had to perform, and at the character of those
who had presided in the situation which he now held, he felt,
and he doubly felt, that a post of honour was not without
its anxieties. He had, however, the pleasing satisfaction
of having an example before him worthy of imitation. He
would endeavour to follow that example, though he was
sensible, that with all his exertions, he should stand much
in need of all their kindness not to disappoint their ex-

pectation.
   He would not move for the adjournment of the Court

without returning thanks to all the Directors, individually
and collectively, for all the kindness and attention he had
ever received from them, and begged they would accept
of his best wishes for the prosperity o( the Company and
for their happiness and welfare.
ASSURANCE COMPANY.                 95

To the Governors and Directors of the Royal Exchange

                                       Assurance,

                                  [Continued from page 9.]

            70, Fenchurch-street,

            December 16, 1837.

Gentlemen,

   The Committee of Inspection on the 7th of June, 1820,

having reported to the Court of Directors " that the

M Governor, Mr. Vaughan, had presented to that Com-

и? mittee a Report, dated 29th May, 1820, accompanied

" by several books of Statements and Calculations framed
" and arranged by himself, exhibiting results of the Com-
" pany's operations in the several branches of the Sea,
" Fire, and Life Assurances and Annuities, down to the
" 30th of April, 1819, and shewing, in a most clear,
" perspicuous, and combined view, the state of the Com-

u pany's affairs at that period ; and stating in the Report

" that it is his wish it should be deposited with the present
" and future Governors, in order to be referred to when
" necessary by the Committee of Inspection ; and the
" Committee having resolved to express their cordial
" thanks to Mr. Vaughan for the labour, skill, and judg-
" ment displayed by him in forming these valuable books
" and documents ; and that it would be expedient that the
" system and principles with which they had been framed
" should be applied to all subsequent transactions of the
" Company, under the superintendance of the Governors
96 ROYAL EXCHANGE

" for the time being. And the Court of Directors having
" been pleased to approve and adopt the recommendations
" of the Committee, and having been further pleased to
" resolve that Mr. Vaughan be requested to sit for his
" picture as a testimony of the high sense the Court
" entertained of his eminent services."

   I was encouraged to extend my labours to the formation

of a more comprehensive and consolidated statement of
all the Company's affairs from its first commencement in
1720 down to the year 1824, to which I afterwards added
accounts for some of the branches to 1827.

   On my resignation in 1829, many of the Statements

being unfinished or requiring some revision, I retained the

books in my possession to complete them, which various
circumstances prevented me from doing till a few months

ago.

   The accounts, I trust, will be found pretty correct and
serviceable, and I beg now to present them, that they may

be deposited at the office for the use of the Corporation,

as at first intended.

   In framing these accounts I have rather aimed at making

them conform to the system and practice of the office than

at making any alterations.
    A copious Index lias been given in each of the volumes,

 but they have been so arranged in the Beventh volume,
which contains the Final Report, as to consolidate them
 for each branch .

    With the accounts, I have retained all documents which

 were in my possession; destroying all other papers except-
 ing those thanks which I have received, and which I shall

 ever retain a grateful scum- of.
ASSURANCE COMPANY.     97

    Sincerely wishing prosperity to the Company, and every
happiness to all those who preside over its affairs,

                       I have the honour to be,

                                  Gentlemen,

                                            Most respectfully,
                                   Your sincere and humble servant,

                                         William Vaughan.
   A letter of thanks was returned by the Court, dated

20th December, 1837.

                    H
                                    No. 4.

                       AN ADDRESS

                                                                    TO

    THE BRITISH SEAMEN

                                                        AT THE

TIME OF THE MUTINY AT THE NORE, 1797,

                                                            BY

                  WILLIAM VAUGHAN.

                                     [Continued from p. 13.]

   Every lover of his country has seen, with concern and
regret, that spirit of mutiny which has lately discovered
itself in a part of the British navy. The manner and the
timing of it have been disgraceful to the promoters of it.

It has however been fortunately quelled by the seamen

returning of themselves to their duty, from a sense of their
own improper conduct. Wishing to cast a veil over the

past, and to guard against a return of evils, I beg to ad-

dress a few hints to British seamen, who have a character
attached to them which they should be ever proud to
merit, that of being respected at home and feared abroad.
The country no sooner heard the complaints of the seamen
than Parliament redressed their grievances, and imme-
diately voted an increase to their pay to the amount of
about Б530,000 per annum to the public.

   This was not confined to a particular fleet, but to the
whole navy. After such an interposition, and a general
AN ADDRESS, &C.  99

 pardon, the late disturbances at the Nore could never
 have originated from the seamen at large in that fleet, but
 from the endeavours of the designing few, who misguided

 the seamen by false representations, and who kept them

 ignorant of the decision of the legislature, and of the
 acquiescence and approbation of the country, and of the
 navy, to that decision. No sooner were the seamen in-
 formed of what had been done, and of the detestation that

 the country entertained of their disgraceful conduct, than
 they broke through the bands that fettered them, returned

 to their duty, and delivered up their leaders to be tried by
 the laws of their country.

   I look upon the business at the Nore as a phenomenon

in the naval history of this country ; and I can only com-

pare it to a sudden frost, which for the moment congealed
every power and faculty of action until followed by as
sudden a thaw. Lest there should be still remaining any

ice floating, I would recommend to seamen before they

again complain,

    1st. To look to the navy and the merchant's service of

other countries, and see where seamen have been so well
paid, so well fed, or so well treated as in this country.

    2d. Where they will meet with so many hospitals,
public and private, charitable funds and institutions for
themselves and families in case of old age, accident, or

death.

   3d. Whether there are not thousands of foreign
seamen who enter voluntarily into the British service in
peace and in war, in preference to the pay and the service
of the countries to which they belong.

   Let seamen then learn to be content, and to enjoy the
blessings they possess. Let them rouse themselves to a

                                                                            h2
100 AN ADDRESS

true sense of their situation and duty, and be sensible that

they cannot better serve their country than to protect it in

time of war ; and at the termination of that they cannot
it
    is
       it a

                     a

                                                       ;

                             if

                                                                    it,
better promote its interest as well as their own than by the

exertions of peaceful industry. The nation loves the navy                                  :;

favoured service        they have wrongs, their country

will hear and redress them with kindness and with justice

but has spirit and an energy to suppress violence,

tumult, and injustice.

Let them reflect, where will fifty or sixty thousand

seamen when dismissed from the navy on peace, find

employment but in the merchants' service Will merchants
                                  ?

                                        a

and ship-owners confide in men who have discovered                                         is a

mutinous spirit and want of subordination                                         Will they
             a                                                                 ?

not give the preference to those who can and will work

honestly and industriously for their livelihood, and who

can have good character given of them.
a
                  a

                                                                            ;

                                                                   by

                                                 if

                                                                     it
Let them also pause, and reflect that our commerce

perpetual nursery for seamen and                                               should be found

necessary, the legislature might  laws and regulations

hold out encouragements to good men, to apprentices, and

to landsmen, or grant greater privileges to foreign seamen,

in order to deter and BUppress that spirit of mutiny and

dissatisfaction which has discovered itself among the tow

who will then be left to pine and repent their own miscon-
duct, and at the want of countenance and the want of

employment.

.Many of the commercial and manufacturing towns of

(ircai Britain have followed the example o( the merchants

and -hip-owners of London; and gave me infinite pleasure
                        it
                                                    in
to find their resolutions have been received                                      the navy

with so much satisfaction and effect The thanks of the
TO THE BRITISH SEAMEN.  101

country are due to the officers of the navy and the marines,
and also to the great body of the seamen for their steadi-
ness and attachment to their country during the late

mutiny. I will not particularize ships or men, from the

persuasion that they had rather receive thanks for actual
and meritorious services, than from the comparative de-

merits of a few ships or a few misguided men. I hope the

present trials will be a warning to the few misguided
seamen who had been ignorantly misled.

   Rouse, then, ye British seamen ! Go join the brave
Admiral Duncan, who with four sail of the line blockades

the whole Dutch naval force in their own ports, while a
British fleet ingloriously blockades the mouth of the
Thames. Blot from the page of history the record of
your shame, or a recollection of the transaction, by a return

to your duty and by your exertions. It may be in your

power to close a war honourably to yourselves, and

favourably to your country. Emulated by the examples of
Lord Howe on the glorious action of the 1st of June, 1794,
and by Sir John Jervis' signal and brilliant victory on the

14th of February, 1797, go seek the enemy off their own

ports ; and may the laurels you gain secure to us an

honourable and lasting peace ; remember, however, that
the British navy and that British seamen owe their fame,

success, and national character to vigour, union, discipline,
and subordination, and that without them the navy is like
a ship in a storm, without masts or rudder.

The Seaman's Friend.
                            No. 5.

         I,ORD DUNCAN'S VICTORY.

                       [Continued from p. 16.]

The active committee appointed to manage the subscrip-

tions raised for the relief of the wounded, and the families or

relations of those who were killed on board the fleet under

the command of Admiral Lord Duncan, in the action of

the 11th October, 1797, made a general statement on the

9th of July, 1801, of the total amount of subscriptions

received, including dividends thereon ; and the total amount
of gratuities and annuities paid to those who were killed,
and to the families of those who were severely wounded ;

giving at the same time a list of the names of those who

had not been found, to whom gratuities had been voted,

whether British or Foreign seamen. The gratuities to

Foreign seamen that could not be found out, after adver-

tising, and allowing twelve months, wore voted to the

consuls and heads of churches of the different nation-

which they respectively belonged, for the benefit and

relief of foreign and distressed seamen that may frequent
our ports in time of peace. Out of the lapsed sums,
200 guineas were presented to the Merchant Seaman's
Office, the, Marine Society, and Naval Asylum Greenwieh,

respectively; as Institutions intimately connected with the

welfare and prosperity o[' the COID  nd navy o( this

Country, and as tending to afford in peace and in war,

relief and assistance to a number of seamen with their

families who have served en board o( Admiral Lord

Duncan'
            duncan's victory.       103

    On the 29th October, 1802, the same committee resolved,

--That forms of certificates be required of the life, age,
and situation of the parties interested, and the number of

their families, before they can be entitled to receive their
respective annuities; and in case of death, then their

widows and children to send certificates agreeably to the

forms required ; and to prevent unnecessary applications,

none were to apply but those who had been in the habit of

receiving it ; and in case of death the widow or children

were to apply under certain certificates and regulations.

By information, and assistance of the officers in the navy,

and of the magistrates, gentry, and clergy of the United
Kingdom and of foreign countries, the number of cases un-

claimed and entitled to relief were reduced to thirty-five out

of 1,040 cases reported to have been killed or wounded ; and

if any of the relations of these cases will send the particulars

of their claims, attested by the minister and churchwardens

of the parish, they would be immediately attended to.
IfForeigners are equally entitled.
                                    gratuities are not

satisfactorily cleared within twelve months, the committee

are empowered by the resolution in 1801, to consider them

as lapsed.

   17th January, 1804. --The committee endeavoured by
public advertisements and other channels to find out those
foreigners or their families (if any) who had an honourable
and a national claim on the funds of this committee for
services in defence of this country, and where they have
been unsuccessful they have paid over the gratuities which

the parties would have been entitled to receive, to consuls

or heads of churches of foreign nations. Out of the
104 duncan's victory.

funds allotted for British subjects who could not be found

out there has been paid to        Б210
       Greenwich Hospital

The Marine Society, additional    210

The Dublin Hospital               105

The Royal Infirmary at Edinburgh  105

as being public and national Institutions connected with
the commerce and navy of this country. After performing
the business of the day, and regretting the death of Cal-

verly Bewick, Esq., the late chairman, they passed the
following vote of thanks : --

   " The Committee at the same time feel it a duty which
" they owe to William Vaughan, Esq., one of their
" members, to express to him and to the public their sense
" of obligations for his unwearied zeal and tried integrity
" in the arduous task of attending to the affairs of this
" committee from its commencement to its close."

   1 remember, upon Lord Nelson coming from Vienna in
his way from the Mediterranean, his saying that nothing
redounded more to the honour of Great Britain, than the

putting Foreign seamen upon the same footing as the
English.
                                    No. 6.

OF THE INFLUENCE OF SAVINGS' BANKS

                                                       ON THE

            HABITS AND MORALS OF SOCIETY.

                                     [Continued from p. 19.]

[This Paper was written for private communication, and was afterwards

                          printed, 31st March, 181 8. J

    Since the introduction of the Poor Laws in the reign of
 Queen Elizabeth, there has been perhaps no plan which
 has held out so many advantages for the bettering the
 condition of the poor, for increasing their comforts, and
 promoting their happiness and moral habits, as the system
 of Savings' Banks.

     Though the poor laws might have been adequate for the
 maintenance of the poor according to the state of society
  and population at that period, yet these laws, with all their
  increase of rates, powers, and regulations, have been found
  every way inadequate to the present state of the country,
  and the great changes that have taken place in the habits
  and manners of the people. Notwithstanding the increase
  of industry, commerce, and wealth, the growth of pauperism
   has more than kept pace with the advancement of popu-
   lation. The lamentable increase of distress, indigence,
   and criminal delinquency within these few years has too
   plainly shown that there must have been something radi-

   cally wrong and defective in the system of the poor laws,
106 savings' banks.

and that the remedies hitherto applied call for new and
powerful aids to correct those evils which have so alarm-
ingly preyed on the morals and habits of society. Savings'
Banks may be considered as one of those aids, and as
forming a new era in the system of political economy.
They create by their operations and combinations a new
power of the first magnitude by the simplest of all agents.

   It has been stated that the creative powers of industry

are to property, what education is to the mind ; and
Savings' Banks, by bringing industry and frugality into
union and action, will put it in the power of every man to

better his condition in life by his own exertions. In these
institutions he will find a never-failing spur to his industry ;
a security to property, and a check to many of the evils

arising from losses, plunder, and imprudence ; and after

providing for the common incidents of life, a friendly fund
and resource at hand against the day of want, sickness,

and old age.
   Savings' Banks have established the great leading prin-

ciples for which they have been founded ; and there cannot
be a stronger proof of their advantage and necessity, than
the great alacrity and avidity with which they have been
adopted by every class of society ; and that out of the
savings of industrious persons more than Б1)00,000 lias
been invested in Government debentures since the passing

of (he late Act up to the. present time.

   There have been but few single deposits in the London
Institutions exceeding Б60 at a tune, and their great bulk
as to value and number nave been under Б5, Hut when
it is taken into consideration, how much has been de-

posited in the first year of the experiment! out of the
Bavings of industrious individuals who may have hoarded
savings' banks.  107

up funds during the whole course of their lives without use,
circulation, or interest, until called into activity by this

system; and also how much has been further paid by

weekly, monthly, or occasional deposits, exclusive of
investments for children, &c. : the depositors of the first
class can be of little moment, and are of little detriment

to the public.

   It might be further added, that every new depositor

bringing a new capital into play, produces confidence and
example, and affords an additional pledge to the state for
the protection and security of property, and for the welfare
of society ; and that every man, that saves ten or Б100
a year out of his income, gains the first perch to inde-
pendence, and a further removal of himself and his
family from a state of dependence and degradation.

   When premiums and bounties are granted to encourage
fisheries or manufactures, or preserve commercial interests,
policy and the welfare of the community have strong
claims to promote that laudable spirit of industry, fru-
gality, and independence; which would tend to increase
the happiness and comforts of society, lessen crimes and
distresses, and in time to decrease many of those great
parochial burthens which are oppressive to the rich and

the poor.

   It may be also stated that Friendly Societies are found

beneficial in making a decent provision for sickness or for
a man's family after his decease. Savings' Banks are not
without their advantages ; and by the adoption of both
 these plans, a man by his prudence creates a fund at all
times for the common exigencies of life, and a more decent
 provision for his family.
 108 LONDON PROVIDE*? J NSTITUTION.

    Savings' Banks may also prove of the first importance
in forming an early provident fund against the day of
marriage, by laying up a store towards the maintenance of
a family. This would decrease many of the evils that
proceed from poverty and distress, which are frequently the
causes and accompaniments of unhappy marriages, neg-

lected educations, and increased poor-rates.
    These hints have been suggested rather to shew the

value and importance of Savings' Banks in a general and
a political point of view, than that of entering into more

minute and particular details.

   Those who are desirons of forming and promoting
Savings' Banks, will find ample resources in the reports of
the Society for bettering the condition of the Poor, and in
a valuable and excellent publication, entitled " The Annuls
of Banks for Savings."

                         A Friend to Honest Indimkv.

LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.

To Sir Thomas Barinff, Bart.} Preside/it of the London

                           Provident Institution*

             London, 22dFeb. 18

My dear Sm,

   The circumstances that prevented my resignation of the
situation of Chairman of the superintending Committee of
this Institution, at the last ami eighteenth genera] and
annual meeting, induced me to wait for the next, about to
be held on the 26th inst.
LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.  109

   This delay has redoubled my wishes to resign it ; but at
the same time with the gratification of witnessing another
year's prosperity of this Institution, from its first establish-
ment in 1816 to 1835, At my time of life it is my wish

to enjoy that rest and repose which is so congenial to age
with its approaching infirmities.

  I congratulate you on the present state of this Insti-
tution ; and if we were to extend our views to a consoli-

dated statement of the receipts, payments, and balances
of all the Savings' Banks in the kingdom, from their first
establishment, during the period of nineteen years, to the

20th of November, 1835, with the accumulated number of

deposits, they would shew their importance and influence,

and that they rank amongst the most powerful agents in
the system of political economy, in promoting the welfare
and happiness of society.

    Savings' Banks may not be unaptly compared to the
young sapling thriving in a kindly soil, until it becomes
like the sturdy oak of a forest, whose branches give shelter
and protection to all who seek it ; and it will be found that
 industry and temperance combined with economy will tend
 to promote the happiness, comforts, and morals of society.

   I beg to conclude with stating some circumstances con-

 nected with this Institution, that may not be very generally
 known.

    That the Society for bettering the condition of the Poor,
 about twenty years ago, first suggested the plan of
 establishing Savings' Banks within this metropolis : a meet-
 ing was convened, when many of its members, as well as

 myself, attended, when the plan was adopted, and the
 society gave the sum of fifty pounds each to this and to

 other societies towards their expenses.
110 LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.

    This Savings' Bank repaid that sum, and a further private
subscription, from some of its members. The prosperity
of the Institution stands as stated in the report.

   You were selected to be the first President, and I am

happy to state that your name has long been enrolled as a
member of the Society for bettering the condition of
the Poor.

With great respect and regard

               I remain,

          Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

(Signed)  W. Vaugiian.

        LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.

    At the general Annual Meeting, held on the 26th of
February, 1836, Sir Thomas Baring, Bart. President, in
the Chair.

   A letter from William Vaughan, Esq. Vice-President

of the Institution, and Chairman of the Superintending
Committee, addressed to Sir Thomas Baring, Bart, and
containing his resignation of the situation of Chairman of
that Committee, having been read,

        Resolved unanimously,
   That (his meeting desire to express their unfeigned

regret that William Vaughan, Esq. should feel it necessary,
in consequence of his advanced age and consequent in-
creasing bodily infirmities, io retire from the situation of
LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.  Ill

Chairman of the Superintending Committee of the London
Provident Institution.

   That while this meeting tender to Mr. Vaughan their
grateful acknowledgment of the eminent services rendered
to the Institution through his indefatigable zeal, assiduity,
and ability ; they cannot forget, what must ever remain

strongly impressed upon their minds, that he was the
author of the Institution, over the government of which
he has continued to extend his paternal and fostering

care.

   Under the influence of these feelings, this meeting desire
to return their warmest and most cordial thanks to Mr.
Vaughan ; and to offer to him their best wishes that he
may continue to enjoy many years of uninterrupted health
and happiness ; and their earnest hope that the reflection of
his having by his philanthropic exertions largely contri-
buted to promote the temporal welfare and moral condition
of a numerous class of his fellow-subjects, may be to him
a lasting source of enjoyment.

   That the President be requested to communicate these
sentiments to Mr. Vaughan.

   Mr. Vaughan sent a copy of the Report to his friend
Mr. Rogers, enclosed in the following letter : --

To Samuel Rogers, Esq.

                        1st April, 1836.

My dear Sir,

  I have the pleasure to send you, as an old friend, our

last Report of the London Provident Institution, for the
112 LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.

nineteenth year, since its first establishment, up to Novem-

ber, 1835, which I trust will be a gratification to you.
  I should be happy if we could have you amongst us.
                                I am,
                                      Dear Sir,

                                                       Yours truly,

                                                     W. Vaughan.

To William Vaughan, Esq.

                            1st April, 1836.

My dear Sir,

A thousand thanks for your remembrance of an old

friend, and a thousand more for your communication.

There is no brighter page in Homer or Milton, and happy

should I be if I could look back on such an achievement

as yours. But the glory was in laying the first stone.

Are you in want of funds ?

                            Yours, ever,
                                       S. Rogers.

To Samuel Itogers, Esq.

                            FcHchureh-sti

                                  Mh April, 1836.

My dear Sir,

Yours, of the 1st instant, has been forwarded to me.

I received it with much pleasure and also lor its kindness.
       LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.                   113

I leave to poets to chant their thousand thanks in Homerian

verse, and content myself in agreeing with you, that letters

from an old friend to an old friend are not without their

value, as they bring recollections which tend to make age

more happy and comfortable. Yours to me gave me

double pleasure as it tendered funds unasked in case of

need.

   In behalf of the 20,908 proprietors of the London Pro-

vident Institution I return you their best thanks for your

wishes; but they beg to decline your kind offer. They

find, that under this Institution, with care, pence may

soon be converted into pounds.  I have to state that

they feel independent in having a stake in the country they

live in, and, have been enabled to lend, with advantage to

themselves, half a million of money to the state. They

also find that industry, economy, and contentment go a

great way in promoting their comfort and happiness.

   Connected as this subject is with the good old Dr.

Franklin's maxim, I have the pleasure to send you some

of his Golden Rules exemplified in the enclosed little

papers, which I hope will give you pleasure.
                           I am,
                                  My dear Sir,

                                Your sincere friend,
                                          W. Vaughan.
114 LONDON PROVIDENT INSTITUTION.

To William Vaughan, Esq,

My dear Sir,        12th April, 1836.

   Many thanks for your last communication. Dr. F.'s

excellent maxims (more precious than gold) are engraven
on my heart, with many things of far less value.

                             I am,

              Yours most truly,

                     Samuel Rogers.

To William Malthj, Esq. Honorary Librarian of the

                          London Institution.

My dear Sir,        April 4th, 1836.

    As you sometimes dine tetc-a-tetc with poets and
bishops, I hope you will favour an old friend with your

company, tБte-a-tetc, though no poet or bishop. I dine

at home on Saturday and alone. Bring with you your
appetite and budget, and we will discuss the same, and

for your dessert we will have Professor Raiuner's Account
of England.

With great regard,

              I remain, DBAS 8 IE,

              Yours, sincerely,
                        W. Vaughan.
POOR RICHARD EXEMPLIFIED.  115

                        To William Vaughan, Esq,

                                                     London Institution,

                                                      April 4th, 1836.
      Dear Sir,

  I certainly sometimes dine with poets and bishops, but I

can sincerely say that nothing delights me more than a

tete-a-tete with an old friend, and I shall have great pleasure

in waiting on you next Saturday.
                                                Believe me,
                                                   Yours, very truly,

                                                   W. Maltby.

       USEFUL HINTS FOR THE LABOURER,

                                                  PUBLISHED BY

                     Wbt Habouws* Jfxitvto &ocftrn.

          POOR RICHARDS ALMANACK EXEMPLIFIED.

    Poor Richard's Almanack, written by Dr. Franklin,
contains a volume of useful maxims for the conduct of men
in every station of life, and should be hung up in every
cottage.

   It begins by stating we complain of the taxes by govern-

ment ; but we are taxed twice as much by our idleness,
three times as much by our pride, and four times as much

by our folly ; but if we lessened some of these useless

taxes on ourselves, we should feel little from the others ;
adding, God helps them that help themselves.

                                                i2
a        116 POOR RICHARD EXEMPLIFIED.;;a                            it it,
    (               ;a
            These excellent maxims have been fully exemplified by
        athe history of two men, who had nearly the same prospectsaa
         of success in life, but who, from different habits, would
                a               :
         probably have come to different ends, if the kindness of
                        it
         the one had not saved the other from ruin and destruction.
            John Smith was industrious, prudent, and saving ; reada

         his Bible, and paid a due respect to Sundays, and hadif
         got on in the world ; and when he saw he could afford
         he took unto himself wife, for economy, comfort, and

         happiness.

            John Careless was naturally kind-hearted, with many
         good qualities, and had more readiness and activity of
         mind and body than Smith, but was more easily led astray
         into bad company with fondness for dress, and singing

           good song, he soon raised himself to be the head of the
         club at the Red Lion.

             He became dissipated and neglecting his business,
         soon forsook him and, by way of consolation, he took
         to the use of ardent spirits, to drown his cares, and, as he
         used to say, to keep up his spirits and to warm his body.

            The landlord of the Red Lion, finding Careless useful
         decoy to bring customers, permitted him to run up score,
         and double one on Sunday at the skittle-ground but
         he took special good care to add another to tor interest.

            Tlu- (lav of reckoning at last came, and the landlord
         threatened him he did not pay off his debts.

                'are/ess had become too indolent to work, and did not
         know what to do; but at last resolved to apply to his
         friend, Smith, to lend him tin pounds, although he did
         not know how or when he could repay tin- same.

             Smith had regard for Care/ess, whom he had known
         at the village day-school and, wishing to save him from
                   ;
POOR RICHARD EXEMPLIFIED.  117

it,ruin and destruction, resolved to make an experiment, and,

induce him to make a promise which if he would punctual-

ly perform, he told Careless he would lend him twenty
pounds on the following conditions : --

  Firsty That he would promise to leave the club and the

Red Lion ; compromise with the landlord by the payment
of one half his score ; and lay out the remainder of the
loan in clothing and tools, and he would find him in em-

ployment.

   Next, That he should apply his weekly wages for food

and raiment, and his savings from over-time should be

honourably placed into a savings' bank to redeem his

loan.

   Third, That if he ever went to the club or to the Red

Lion, he should, of himself, put double the amount of his

score into the savings' bank ; but if ever he should get

intoxicated, he should tax himself trebly ; and that he

should hang up Poor Richard over his chimney. It should

be left to his own honour to keep these regulations.

    Careless was at first startled at these conditions ; but an

event soon happened which induced him to make the

promise.

   The landlord pressed for payment. Careless, with all
his failings, was unwilling to go to prison, and equally
disinclined to associate with thieves and house-breakers,
or to be transported or hung. He consented to make the
promise, and having made he kept it.

    Careless became sober, industrious, and saving; and
soon paid off his loan, and had five pounds in the savings'
bank at interest.

   As little habits, whether good or bad, often become
greater, he soon found that the power of industry led to
  118 POOR RICHARD EXEMPLIFIED.

 independence, and that, whilst he was working, his very
 savings turned to gains, and that his deposits were at
 interest.

    It gave a new turn to his mind and to his exertions.

 He entered his name as a member of a temperance society,
 and soon lost his cough and dismissed his doctor, which
 was a further saving. His health became restored ; and
 he found that industry and clothing produced more food,
 warmth, and comfort, than all the ardent spirits at the
 Red Lion.

     Careless called upon his friend Smith, to thank him for
his loan, but still more for his friendly advice ; but he had
now still a further want, and wished to consult him about
it. Seeing his friend Smith was well off in the world,
comfortable and thriving, with a wife and children about
him, he wished (o follow his example, and take unto him-
self a wife, as he could now afford to maintain one.

    That he had met with a young woman of good temper
and prudent conduct, who he thought would make him
happy, and whom he wished to make so ; but he had de-

termined, in his own mind, to keep the golden rule he

had practised by Smith's advice -- that of putting all his
savings into the savings' bank, in the joint names of his
wife and himself, as the surest mode of keeping from the
Roaring Lion.

    Care/ess (Harried ; beoalme industrious and happy ; and,

by the prudent conduct of his wife, he brought up his
children with good and virtuous habits. He became
respected; and soon lost the eharaeter fiC Jack Can,,
and became better known by the name of Careful John.

                                                                   W. V.
               THE DUKE OF SUSSEX'S ADDRESS.              119

                             No. 7.

Extract from the Address, delivered by His Royal
   Highness the Duke of Sussex to the Fellows of the
   Royal Society; dated ^Oth November y 1837.

               [Continued from p. 37.]

   After the Duke had stated that Her Majesty had signed

her royal name as Patroness of the Royal Society, he goes

on to say,
   " I now proceed to notice some of the more important
" events connected with the administration of the Royal
" Society during the last year.
   " One of the royal medals has been adjudged to Mr.
" Whewell, for his valuable series of Researches on the
" Tides, which have been published in our Transactions,
I" chiefly during the last three years.
                                         must refer you,
" Gentlemen, for a statement of the grounds upon which
" this decision has been founded, to the more detailed
" reports of the Council, which will be read to you by
" your Secretary, Dr. Roget ; but I gladly avail myself
" of this opportunity of expressing my respect for the
" great talents and varied attainments of the distinguished
" philosopher, upon whom this mark of honour has been
" conferred. If I regard him as occupied with the highest
" and most important practical duties connected with our

u system of academical education, and in providing and

'* arranging the materials by which it is conducted, or the
"
"  principles   upon which   it should be based, he will  be
   found in    the foremost  rank of those whose labours  do
120 THE DUKE OF SUSSEX'S ADDRESS.

" not deserve the less honour, because they commonly
" absorb the entire time and attention of those who are
* engaged in them; and thus close up the avenue to those
" distinctions which are almost exclusively confined to

H great discoveries in science, or to important productions

" in literature. When I read his essays on the architec-
" ture of the middle ages, on subjects of general litera-

u ture, or on moral and metaphysical philosophy, exhibiting

11 powers of mind so various in their application and so
" refined and cultivated in their character, I feel inclined
" to forget the profound historian of science in the accom-
" plished man of letters or the learned amateur of art;
" but it is in his last and highest vocation, whilst tracing

" the causes which have advanced or checked the progress
" of the inductive sciences, from the first dawn of philo-
" sophy in Greece to their development in the nineteenth
" century ; or in pointing out the marks of design of an Aft-
" wise and All-powerful Providence in the greatest of
" those works and operations of nature, which our senses
" or our knowledge can comprehend or explain, that I

1* recognise the productions of one of those superior minds,
" which are accustomed to exercise a powerful and lasting
" influence upon the intellectual character and specula-

" tions of the age in which they flourish.
   " It is now three years since the royal medal was ad-

" judged to Mr. Lubbock lor his Researches on Tides; and
" the Council have availed themselves o( the first oppor-
" t unity which was presented, by the recurrence o( the
" cycle Of the subjects which are successively entitled to
H the royal medals, to make a similar award to his col-

< League and fellow-labourer in tins very interesting and

u important series of Investigation. It is not for me to
THE DUKE OF SUSSEX'S ADDRESS,  121

" attempt to balance the relative claims and merits, in
" connexion with this subject, of these two very eminent
" philosophers ; it is quite sufficient to remark, that the

" first who ventured to approach this difficult and long

" neglected inquiry was the first also who was selected for
if honour; but I have long noticed, with equal pride and
" satisfaction, the perfect harmony with which they have
" carried on their co-ordinate labours, apparently indiffe-
" rent to every object but the attainment of truth ; and
" altogether superior to those jealousies which too fre-
" quently present themselves amongst rival and contem-
" poraneous labourers in the same departments of science.

   " Those who have attended to the Tidal Researches of
" Mr. Whewell, must be aware how much light has been
" thrown upon the character and course of the phenomena
" of the tides by the simultaneous observations, under his
" instructions, which were made in the month of June,
" 1834 and 1835, at nearly five hundred stations of the
" Coast Guard Service in Great Britain and Ireland ; and
" simultaneously with the latter also at more than one
" hundred stations in America, Spain, Portugal, France,
" Belgium, Holland, Denmark, and Norway. These ob-
" servations were undertaken by the authority and through
" the influence of the Government of this country, which
" likewise most promptly and liberally furnished the re-
" quisite funds and assistance for reducing the Observations

" in such a manner as was requisite for deducing general
" conclusions from them ; a labour much too extensive and

" costly to be undertaken by any single individual.
   " I gladly seize this opportunity of bearing testimony,

" occupying as I do the highest scientific station in this
" country, to the readiness which the Lords of the Trea-
122 THE DUKE OF SUSSEX'S ADDRESS.

" sury and the Admiralty have shown on this and on
" every other occasion to forward scientific inquiries, and
" particularly such as are connected with the advancement
" of astronomy and navigation. They have granted funds
" for reducing and publishing the Planetary Observations
" at Greenwich, the valuable and extensive series of Ob-

tf servations of the late Mr. Groombridge, for repeating,
" on an adequate scale, the very important experiments of
" Mr. Cavendish, and for many other subjects of great

It{ scientific interest and value; and feel satisfied that
" every application for assistance towards the accomplish-
" ment of any important object in science, will receive
" from them the most willing attention and support, if it
" comes before them with the recommendation and autho-

11  rity of those persons  who are most    competent to judge
    of its usefulness or   necessity, and  in such a form as
"

" may justify them in appealing to Parliament for its

M sanction of the requisite expenditure. I rejoice, Gen-

и' tlemen, in such manifestations of the sympathy of the
" Government of this great country for the progress of

" science; and I trust that its influence will be felt in

" the cordial union and co-operation of philosophers in
" planning and in executing those great systems of Ob-

" servations, whether simultaneous or not, which are still
" requisite to fill up some of those blank spaces which
" occupy so large a portion in the map of human know-
" ledge."

   If maybe here stated, thai this country has ever been
desirous to encourage a mutual exchange of knowled
with other countries in objects of science.

   The friends of Professor Bowditch being desirous that
PROFESSOR BOWDITCH.                        123

he should be made an Honorary Member of the Royal

Society, I communicated the testimonials which had been

transmitted to me, to Sir Joseph Banks, the late President.
He was pleased to state, that he thought that Professor
Bowditch would be a very proper person for the honour ;
and after taking down, at his request, the form of the
certificate required, he stated that he would sign it him-

self, and get some of the Council to do the same ; he then
returned it to me for my signature. Mr. Bowditch was

duly elected, and I afterwards took similar measures to

procure his election as an Honorary Member of the Royal
Societies of Edinburgh and Dublin with success. #

   The Commissioners of the Public Records have been

pleased, with great liberality, to present sets of their Re-
ports to some of the public bodies and institutions of
different States of the United States.

I* regret to state that society has met with a great loss in the death of

Professor Bowditch, at Boston, aged 65 years ; and having early obtained

an interesting Memoir of his Life, delivered by the Rev. Alexander Young,

an Eulogium by Judge White, and a Memoir by Mr. Pickering, on the
Ioccasion of his death, in March, 1838,
                                           transmitted the same to the

Council of the Royal Society.

   It may be further stated that the family of Dr. Bowditch has appro-
priated his valuable library to the use of the public. It contains a large

collection of philosophical and scientific works. The family has likewise

given up the use of the apartments for it in the house in which they lived

at Boston, to favour those objects ; and it is hoped that those Societies in

Europe, which have presented him with their Transactions, will be induced

to continue them to the Bowditch Library.

The Duke of Sussex, in his Address to the Royal Society, on the 30th

November, 1838, paid a high tribute to the talents and acquirements of

this distinguished philosopher.
 124 PROFESSOR HASSLER.

   It is owing to the zeal and activity of my brother, John

Vaughan, Esq., of Philadelphia, well known and much
respected, and Treasurer of the American Philosophical

Society, that I have been enabled to negociate exchanges

or presents of the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
and other Societies in this country and on the continent,
with the American and other societies and literary men of
America, which has tended to strengthen the union of

science and good feeling between the two countries.

   It may be interesting to my friends to state here that

my youngest brother, the late Samuel Vaughan, Esq., of
Jamaica, of which island he was many years a resident,
was for some time Member of the Assembly, and for a
number of years an Assistant Judge of the Grand Court
and Custos Rotulorum of the Parish of St James. Doling
the period of his holding these offices, and, indeed, while
he resided in the island, he, both publicly and privately,
exerted himself for the gradual amelioration of the negro
population, and not without a beneficial effect. He also

wrote some interesting, able, and conciliatory papers m in
defence of the Colonies," rebutting and refuting many of the
aspersions and calumnies thrown out against them. He
died in that island in 1827, much respected and regretted.

   Whilst John W. Lubbock, Esq. and Professor Whew oil
wire communicating their discoveries and observations on
tides, Professor llassler, with whom I had been long ac-
quainted, transmitted to me some copies of observations
which lie had made on the tides and coasts of America,

by order of the American Government, and with it a report
upon weights and measures, which 1 distributed to the
Royal Society and other bodies and scientific persons. I
               PROFESSOR HASSLER.                                         125

obtained a complete set of all his reports, and I trans-

mitted them to Captain Beaufort, Hydrographer to the

Admiralty, at his request. He received them with plea-

sure, and wrote a letter himself to Professor Hassler,

which I forwarded. Mr. Hassler transmitted a copy of

the same to the American Navy Board at Washington ;

it was published in the American Globe, a Government

paper, and afterwards in the John Bull of the 28th of

January, 1838 ; and I with pleasure give a copy of
   I                                                                                as
            :
follows --                                                            ;

                                                                               it,
                    Admiralty, 6th July, 1837.

   "Dear Sir,
   " have to acknowledge, with many thanks, the receipt
" of your very valuable work on Weights and Measures,
" and also of your correspondence on the Coast Survey.
   il The Lords of the Admiralty have commanded me to
" thank you on their part also and their Lordships, the
"
"  public, and all the men of science in the country
"  heartily join with me, in the earnest wish that the pre-
"  liminary correspondence will have so completely cleared
   away all official difficulties, that you will be now able to
" advance with rapid strides that great and laborious, but
" unspeakably important enterprise which the Government
" of the United States have so judiciously confided to
" your management.
   " That the Government may now effectually support

   your efforts, and that your health may be equal to the
'>

                                                                     it,
" various and constant demands upon                                       are the sincere
" wishes of,
                    " Yours, faithfully,
                    (Signed) " F. Beaufort."
    12G

                  MISSIONARY SOCIETIES.

                                         [Continued from p. 66,]

      In closing the hints and sketches on various subjects in
' the preceding pages, it may not be uninteresting to take a

  summary view of what England was in former ages, com-
  pared with what it is in its present state. England at one
  period, as well as Europe, was almost uncultivated and

  uncivilized, and they have required centuries to make them
  what they are. They have had their convulsions, wars,
  revolutions, and reformations ; and have been under feudal
  and other systems.

     Civilization and liberty had been for ages little under-
 stood, and may be compared to wild plants that require
 the hand of cultivation. Endand was amongst the first
 countries that began to improve ; and among other causes,
 it was to Alfred that we were indebted for Trial by Jury,
 which secured rights and property, and formed one of the
 great pillars of our constitution.

    The introduction of Christianity also caused a great

 revolution and improvement in our morals, customs, and

 habits. The Bible is now to be found in all churches,
 schools, and seminaries, and generally in all families. It

 inculcated moral and religious habits, and promoted the
 objects of civilization and the best rules for our conduct in

life. It has taught us contentment, and is our best conso-

 lation in times of distress, age and infirmity, and holds out
 brighter prospects in a future state. In England, attention

      enerally paid to an early education in all classes of
society, and to the encouragement of public and private

 virtue throughout the country.
    There have been few countries that have taken so deep
MISSIONARY SOCIETIES.                                    127

an interest in the printing, translating and circulating the
Bible and New Testament to all parts of the globe as
England. By means of the New England Corporation
for the civilization and conversion of the Indians in North

America, founded in 1661 ;# the Society for promoting
Christian Knowledge, founded in 1698, and the Society
for the propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts,
founded in 1701 ; the Moravian Society; the British and

Foreign Bible Society, and by Missionary Societies of all

denominations; the Bible has been translated by them

into very many languages, and distributed extensively;
particularly in the East Indies and amongst the many
clusters of Islands in the South Seas, as well as in New

Holland, Van Diemen's Land, China, America, Athens,

Arabia, Africa, &c, many of them having printing-presses ;
and in Ireland the circulation of the Bible is becoming

more extensive.

   It will be found by experience, that giving Missionaries

the best education, with a knowledge of the language,
manners and customs of the countries they visit, will with
the aid of artizans, and a knowledge of medicine, best
promote the objects in view ; and that Missionaries with
wives and children will be found calculated greatly to

promote civilization in the world. All these Societies

expend on these objects about Б500,000 per annum; to
which may be added Б50,000 per annum expended by
similar Societies in America for sending Missionaries to
Africa, Persia, China, Greece, Arabia, and other countries

   * The celebrated Robert Boyle was the first Governor   of this Corpo-
                                                         Christianity in
ration, and was equally zealous for the promotion of
different parts of the world.
128 MISSIONARY SOCIETIES.

in the East, and to the back parts of the United States,

with Missionary printing-presses, &c.
III.The reign of George
                         is another important event in

the history of this country. Amongst many of the ad-

vantages in this reign have been voyages for discovery and

science, and we are now beginning to reap their happy

results. And the Islands in the South Seas, Australia,

Van Diemen's Land, and others, are rising in population,
civilization, and commerce ; and if the discovery of America

has produced great events, similar results will, it is hoped,

be produced by the discovery and settlements of the

Islands in the Southern Hemisphere and New South

Wales. Almost all the islands have been visited by navi-

gators, whalers, and Missionaries.     The Americans are

carrying on an extensive trade in this hemisphere, and

there is no knowing how great may be the result of things

in these quarters within the next century. Sydney, in

New South Wales, which was first made a refuge for con-

victs, is now becoming a seat of commerce, emigration,

civilization and education ; and Van Diemen's Land and

other parts of Australia are now rising into importance.

  If England thought it good policy to transport its con-

victs to New South Wales, which operation has been partly

increased by the mitigated punishment of transportation

instead of deatli ; it will on the other hand bo found that

many convicts have carried with them their idle and
vicious habits, and require the strong hand of power to

govern them, -as well as religious and moral instruction to

humanize and reform them. They form the worst class of

persons lor colonization, and many of them have taken up

;t system of piracy, which is fast gaining ground in
MISSIONARIES.  129

Australasia and Polynesia. But it is hoped, that from the
great extent of the emigration of free settlers, with their
wives and children, and from the recent determination of

Government, to discontinue the transportation of convicts

to those countries as soon as possible, and an extension

of schools, that the religious and moral state of society-
will soon be greatly improved in that quarter of the world.
                              No. 8.

      RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.

                       [Continued from p. 41.]

From the Rev. James Smirnove, Chaplain of the Russian

   Legation, Sec. Sfc. to William Vaughan y Esq. London.

Sir,                                                                     December 1st, 1802.

Some time after I had the honour to visit the West-India

Docks and to dine with you last year, having observed

the great wish which you had expressed to procure plans

of some of the Russian Canals, I wrote to his Excellency

Admiral MordwinofT, Vice-President of the Imperial Ad-

miralty, respecting your desire ; and his Excellency having

mentioned it to the Emperor, his Imperial Majesty was

pleased to order that a Plan of the Canal at Crondstadt,

and also an hydraulic Map of Russia, expressing all the

Canals which are already executed, and all those which

are only projected or intended for execution, should be

transmitted to you. #

   * This hydrogiaphic  map is in a maho                                 . with the follow in-
inscription :--

Hydrographica] map of Russia and the Docks at Cronstadt,

                                 Presented by

His Imperial Majt.sty Alexander TBI FllST

      To Wll LIAM V A I ( MAN.

                                                                  1802.  lence, with explana-

    At the foot of the map is attached the
tions of the Russian characters in English.
          RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.                      131

Having lately received them from his Excellency Admiral

MordwinofT, 1 take the liberty herewith to transmit them

to you ; and I feel myself extremely happy, Sir, to have

had it in my power to do an agreeable thing to a person

of so distinguished merit, and who has employed so much

zeal and talent for the good of commerce and the public

welfare.

          I have the honour to be, with great regard,
                              Sir,

           Your most obedient humble servant,

           James Smirnove.

           The Answer,

           London, February 3d, 1803.

Dear Sir,

    The loss of my father, and an attention to family con-

cerns, prevented my returning you my thanks as soon as

I could have wished for your great readiness in promoting

my wishes in procuring the Plans of the Canals of Russia;

I feel myself not only greatly indebted to your kindness,

but much honoured by the gracious manner with which
the Plans of the Canal at Crondstadt and the Hydraulic
Map of Russia, denoting the Canals of that country made,
executing, and in contemplation, have been conveyed to

me through you by his Excellency Admiral MordwinofT,
Vice-President of the Imperial Admiralty; at the command
of his Imperial Majesty of all the Russias.

   I beg you will convey, through his Excellency, my

most respectful thanks and acknowledgements to his Im-
132 RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.

perial Majesty for the same, with the assurance that I

esteem them as being a valuable acquisition to the collec-
tion of documents on Canals and Docks, which I have been

making for some years, in order to accomplish objects I

 have had much at heart ; and you will much oblige me by
requesting the Emperor and his Excellency to honour me
by their acceptance of some Tracts favourable to the for-
mation of Docks and of a Free-Trade.

   The plan for forming Canals in Russia, and of uniting by
them its great rivers with its great outlets, is truly princely
and worthy the adoption of a great nation. Friendly to
internal improvement, I have always viewed with pleasure

the growing objects that promoted them, from their happy
tendency to call forth into activity that industry which con-
tributes by pacific means to the comforts and happiness of

society ; and nothing tends perhaps so much to change

the face of a country, or the manners of its people, as the

effects produced by canals, good roads, and railways,
which so greatly facilitate the means of supplying the

wants they create. I hope as all countries advance in

countenancing national industry, and as their external

wants increase, commerce may cement their union by a

pacific system that may prove happy and beneficial to
them all.

   With the sincere wish that England and Russia may ever

retain such an intercourse, 1 beg to subscribe myself, with

great regard,

               I) i. \ k Sib,

               Your most obedient humble servant,

                                \\ M. \ Wi.ll \ \.
      RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.  133

From Vice-Admiral Chichagoff, Vice-President of the

 Imperial Admiralty, to William Vaughan, Esq. London.

      St. Petersburgh,

                   October 30th, 1803.

Sir,

   Having laid before his Imperial Majesty the Books and

Plans which you sent of the London-Docks, J have the

honour to acquaint you with his Majesty's gracious recep-
tion and approbation of them ; as a testimony of which, his

Majesty has been pleased to send you a diamond ring,

which you will receive with this letter from the Reverend

James Smirnove. It is with particular pleasure that I
communicate it to you, and I have the honour to remain,

                             Sir,

      Your most obedient humble servant,
                                   P. Chichagoef.

      THE ANSWER.

                   London,

Sir,  December, llth, 1803.

I have been honoured with your Excellency's letter of

the 30th October, informing me that his Imperial Majesty

the Emperor of All the Russias has been pleased to accept
of my collection of Tracts upon Docks and Free-Trade и

and that he had also graciously condescended to notice

my endeavours on these subjects by directing an elegant
 134 RUSSIAN CORRESPONDENCE.

diamond ring to be presented to me, which I have received
through the Rev. Mr. Smirnove.

    I beg you will lay before his Imperial Majesty my most
grateful acknowledgments, for this distinguished mark of

his approbation of the exertions of a private individual in a
foreign country, for the promotion of objects of general

utility ; and I am persuaded that I am indebted for his

Majesty's notice and kindness for the Maps of the Canals
of Russia and Crondstadt, and for this fresh instance of
his condescension, to the liberality of his own princely spirit,
and to his feeling so lively an interest in what tends to
promote the happiness and welfare of society.

   If I should be induced to think more favourably of my

labours than I have done, it will be from the public having

sanctioned the Plans by their adoption, and from their
having attracted the notice of the enlightened Sovereign
of a Great Empire. Permit me to return you my sincere
acknowledgements for the handsome manner in which you
have conveyed his Majesty's pleasure.

                      I am, with great respect,
                                Sir,

                                 Your Excellency's most obliged
                                             and obedient humble servant,

                                               Wm. Vaughan.
J/is I'lne/ltNci/,

   Vice- A dm Ira L C/i icliayoff,
             6fc. cVc. Xr.

                      St. Pctcrsbunjh.

                                    THE KM*.
                                  ERRATA,
Page 29, line 10, read an Entrance at Shad well instead of a Cut at

              Bell Dock.

Page 39, line 16, read Captain Walton instead of Mr. Pearce.

          MARCHANT, PRINTER, ING RAM-COURT, FENCHURCII-STREET.
    REASONS

                   IN FAVOUR OF
                        THE

LONDON-DOCKS.

                  LONDON, 1795.
           i ii ni-in Uii. fnn>

The LONDON-DOCKS.

THE Merchants of London have recommended to the
         public the forming of Wet Docks in Wapping, for
the reception of 400 Sail of loaded (hips, when all are
completed; and a Lighter-Dock, capable of holding 30*
Lighters every tide. They are now applying to Parliament

for leave to make the fame ; and, in order to give a fair difcuf-

llon to all parties and all interefts, it is intended that the Bill

fhall be read once, and printed, and then to lay over until
the next feffions.

   The following are reafons why mercantile and city inte-
refts mould join in the application.

    1. From the great increafe of Commerce, Shipping, and
Revenue, for the Port of London, compared with former pe-
riods or with the reft of England.*

  2. That the River is not adequate to the reception of

the Shipping that frequent the Port. Navigation is frequently
impeded, and the lofles, damages, accidents, and plunderage,
that Shipping and Merchandize annually fuftain, will not
fall fhort, on a moderate, computation, of 2 or 300,000 /.
per annum.

   3. That the LeGal Quays are the fame in extent as at

the fire of London, in 1666, being limited to between London-
Bridge and the Tower, and are about 1464 feet long; while
thofe of Briftol are above 4000 feet. They are limited in

   * The firft has, within this century, nearly trebled itfelf> as to Value of Import
and Export, and forms above three r flfths of the Trade of all England.

    The fecond, as to the Number of Ships from foreign Parts, has nearly doubled
itfelfj and as to Tonnage, nearly trebled} independent of a very great . increafe in
the Codfting-Trade.

   The third has alfo rapidly increafed ; and the payment of Cuftoms for the Port
of London, either in groce or in neat amount, arid are> according to Public
Documents, nearly treble of that for all England.

                                    A 2 their
                                (4)

their powers of improvement or extenfion, and do not ac-
commodate one-fourth of the Commerce of the Port of Lon-
don in bulk, while the Port itlelf enjoys three-fifths of the
trade of all England in value.*
The avenues alfo *to the Legal Quays are too few, too
fteep, and too narrow. Out of th^ ten in number, there

are only two great outlets; the others being impaflible or
little frequented.
                                Scarce a day partes without great ftoppa-
ges in one of the moft principal thoroughfares of the metro-
polis over London- Bridge, occafioned by the crowded ilate of
the Legal Quays, &c.
   4. That many branches of Commerce have been thrown

off from the Legal Quays to the Sufferance- Wharfs, fuch

as rice, hemp, flax, pitch, tar, &c. and, even of thofe arti-

cles which have been retained, wharfingers have been fre-
quently obliged to remip or cart away Merchandizes imme-
diately from the King's Beam to other fpots, at their own
cxpence, and with additional rifk and trouble.

   5. That the Sufferance-Wharfs, which are moftlv out of
the jurifdicYion cf the City, and are difperfed up and down the
river as low as Blaclcwall, are inadequate to wants, and

          accommodated for general Merchandize, either
6.many are
for convenience, fituation, or fafety and are often expofed
           ill
to fun, rain, or fire. This laft has been frequent and ex-
                             ;  pf

                                            j
                                                    fo
tenfive within thefe few years as to become an evil of the
                                and, in three fires, near one million of
firft magnitude

property has been facrifieed.
That Merchandize in Lighters and Craft, in its tranfit

from the Ship to the place           landing) often fuflains more

damage than during the Voyage. Lighters and Craft are
moftly open, and the goods expofed to every kind of weather,

plunderage, and accidents, dining all the delays and impedi-
ments for month or fix weeks before goods arc landed.
is

                        a

                        a
By thus making Lighters floating Wartboufts^ Commerce
    laid under heavy contribution that deitru&tve to pro-
                                     a
                                            is
pcrtv, detrimental to Revenue, and hardfliip and delay to
an aclive and laborious clafs of Lightermen, whofe little

multiplied voyages would be doubled and quadrupled, they
thcmiclvcs could meet with more (patch.                                    7. if
                                in

                                           di

                                                                    I.
                                                                        y
и The Number of Shirs, grc.1t and fm.ill, that c-n                         ifloat at low water, at
the regular Mooring-Tic is, from London-Rridge to Dcpttbrd, are t.nder 8co fail.
Coafters, and Vcffcls that ground every tide, are not included in this number. In

179:, above 13,300 Vcllcls arrived the Tort of London.

                                                                                That
                      (5)

   7. That thefe  great delays and                       lolTes  in  the River, and   the
                                                         times   of  Froft, call for  the
creat infecurity   to Shipping in
moft fpeedy and effectual redrefs, independent of feizures
frequently made on Goods duly entered but not landed
within the time limited by law, from the want of accommo-
dations in the River and of landing, and not from neglect

and needlefs delays.

   8. That London, from its confumption and great increafe
of foreign and domeftic Commerce, commands a Trade un-
rivalled in moft Kingdoms ; and, in proportion to the extent
of has the worft accommodations of any Trading-Port
9. it,                                                               a

                                                      a                         ;
and unlefs fome meafures are taken to increafe Difpatch and
leflen Port-Charges and other evils, Commerce will be far-
ther driven to Out-Ports, and perhaps to foreign parts,
without the powers of recall, when moft of the European
powers are becoming the Patrons of Commerce as the
Parent of Naval Strength and Source of Revenue.

         That the Out-rorts, from their great difpatch and
enterprize in bufinefs, from their Docks, and vicinity to
Canals and Manufacturing Towns, are greatly indebted for

their prefent and increafing profperity, and are, to degree,

becoming the little rivals of the great Metropolis. The

value of the whole of their imports and exports have increa-
fed nearly four fold, within this century, on their former
Trade while that for the Port of London, for want of thefe
;
advantages, have not increafed three fold, and carries on its
     of
Shipping and Commerce under the heavieft incumbrances of

delays, expence, and lofles.
10. That the great fource of thefe Evils proceed from
the want room and difpatch. The removal of 300 or 400
Ships out of the River, with their attendant craft, (which
take up double room to unload them,) would prevent a
number of thofe evils; and    a by                       giving convenience to Com-

merce, fafety to Shipping, and fecurity to Revenue, would
                                                                     it

preferve and extend to the Port of London many of its na^
tural advantages.
11. That, from the commercial and political ftate of
Europe, London never had fairer opportunity,
                                                                     by   the cre-
ation of Docks and accommodations to Trade, of becoming                  a
the great magazine of Corn and other Merchandize for all
Europe, than in the prefent juncture, and without rival.
Holland, Oftend, and Hamburg, are living proofs how far
the principles of Free Trade have profpered or decreafed,
                   a

according to political events but London, from its infular
                              5

                                                                     fituation
                        (6)

fituation and other caufes, will have little to fear beyond the
difcouragements of its own Port-Charges, and its own de-

lays.
12. That the London-Dock, from its being fo near the
centre of Trade, and about a quarter
Tower, will not only fecure to the City  of   a mile from the
                                         for  posterity, a num-
ber of its prefent advantages, but increafe the means of ex-
tenfion; and thofe advantages will be ftill farther increafed,
in proportion as Inland Navigations form junctions with
Docks. The Public are alfo alive to the neceflity and want
of Docks ; and it is an object of confederation, whether the
City will have to contend with the Plan of the London-
Dock, or with others                                       will,
                        that have been in agitation; that
if accompliftied, draw   after them Trades, Profeflions,    and

Towns, to more diftant parts, that cannot be recalled.

13.iftT,hat   to the objections  ftated of,

             The infringement    of City Rights.
       idly, The injury to City Revenues,
       jdly, The removal of Commerce out of the City.
       4thly, The deeply affecting the interefts, profperity, and
employments, of various clafTes of Hands and Citizens, em-

ployed and maintained at the Legal Quays, &c.

   It may be ftated, that the Docks will not infringe on City
Rights, they may be left as they are found. Ships in Dock
can difcharge their Cargoes into Craft, and fend them to the

Jvegal Quays, in the fame manner as if they had laid in the
River, witji more ceconomy and difpatch, and with fewer in-
juries and loffes to the Public Revenue, to Commerce, and
to Wharfingers themfelves. For the greater convenience,
a Lighter-Dock will be made, capable of holding from 26 to
30 Lighters, to go in and out of Dock every Tide. The
Legal Quays will alfo faither always command a preference
from vicinity and fituation, and may be compared to a bee-
hive that has ftrengtlvto throw off its fwarms without injury

to the common ltock.

That the Citv Revenues from Commerce, are fmall and
limited, and may be collected and feeured in the fame man-

ner as heretofore.

   That the City cannot accommodate the Commerce of the
Port, and that Sufferance-Wharfs arc now become, from
habit and ncccflity, as much the Legal Quays for the Port of
London, as thofe within the jurifdiclion ot the City.

    That the right of (hipping and landing Goods is not vef-
tcd in the Citv, but in Government and the Legiflature,

                                                                                                        for
        (7 )

for  the objects of Revenue.   They are authorized to make
or   increafe Legal Quays and  Sufferance- Wharfs, and it is

under their jurifdiffion that the prefent Legal Quays are
conftituted and derive their power, it being a compact be-
tween Commerce and the Revenue to land wherever It
may be done with convenience to the one, and fecurity to the

other.
   That the parties immediately affected are, comparatively
few,* either in claiTes or numbers ; and it is much better

for the interefts of Revenue and convenience to Commerce,

even to purchafe rights, fatisfy injuries, or grant annuities,

than to fuffer depredatidns and oppreflions that are annually
great, and that are detrimental to Property, and a difcredit
to the Port.
    14. That the City of London has, at a great expence, made

many improvements for ornament and convenience without^
emolument or profit, and has juft applied to Parliament for the
removal of Temple-Bar, he, for the more convenient entry
into the City, at the expence of ^100,000, without any

        * The following are fome of the principal leading Interefts :

                  PRIVATE INTERESTS.
   The Legal Quays are twenty-one in number, are freehold, and moftly private
property. The Owners are few, and moll: of them unconnected with the City,
by habits, refulence, or bufinefs, farther than by the collection of rents.

   The V/liarfingers, who polTefs a leafehold eftate on high rents, created by ne->
ceflity and competition, and who cannot be hurt by compenfation for lofs of privi-
leges, or by new leafes on other terms.

    The Gangsmen and Porters, who are a ufeful fet of men, and enjoy places of
truft and confidence, and moftly for life. Their numbers are few, and about fifty j
exclufive of men employed on about five Quays, who employ thofe that are not on

the fame footing as Gangfmen on the other Legal Quays.
   Labourers are a fluctuating clafs of men, employed by the job or half-hour;

and who are, as to the City, moftly aliens and ftrangers ; being principally fur-

nifhed by Soldiers from the Tower, and who would fuftain no injury by working
either at the Docks or at the Legal Quays.

    Carmen are a clafs of men that would be rather benefited than injured by any
change ; and their numbers are limited to 420 Carts.

    Lightermen and Watermen. As the Docks would take the overflowings of
Commerce which the River and Quays cannot accommodate, this clafs of men
would be little injured. There would be employment enough for ali, and their

profperity would depend more on the increafe and difpatch of Commerce  than
from the delays and hard/hips which they at prefent labour under.

                     PUBLIC INTERESTS.
    City and Commercial Interefts will be promoted and increafed, by every atten-
tion to convenience, fafety, and difpatch to Trade.

    Shipping-Interefts will be benefited by the great fecurity that Docks will give
to Ships when rhe River is crowded, or affected by Frofts.

   And the Revenue, from the fafety and convenience given to Commerce, will

meet with prote&^on and increafe.

                                                                       return
                                       ( 8)
return beyond that of a general improvement. It is hoped
that the City will, with a becoming fpirit, join mercantile
interefts in behalf of another plan, of infinitely more mag-
nitude, that will not only furnifh ample means of defraying
its own expences, but reftore the credit of the Port, by gi-
ving convenience and fafety adequate to the wants and accom-
modations of Commerce.

   The above hints are fubmitted with candor, and without
intending difrefpecl: to any Clafs of Men in the various
branches of Commerce; but attributing the evils to one

great fource, the great increafe of Commerce and the want

of accommodations within the Port of London.
       London, April 21, 1795.

               THE END.

                                                    ^

