The life of Isaac Milner, D.D., F.R.S., dean of Carlisle, president
of Queen's College, and professor of mathematics in the University
of Cambridge : comprising a portion of his correspondence and
other writings hitherto unpublished / by ... Mary Milner.

Milner, Mary.
London : J.W. Parker, 1842.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/wu.89099964850

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
TUROANFSWFEURPLERDARTYO
r
              THE LIFE

ISAAC MILNER, D.D., F.R.S.,

          DEAN OF CARLISLE, PRESIDENT OF QUEEN'S COLLEGE,

                                                                               AMD

PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE;

                                                         COMPRISING A PORTION OF

             HIS CORRESPONDENCE

                                                                                AND

 OTHER WRITINGS HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED.

                                                                                 BY

                                         HIS NIECE,

                      MARY MILNER,

                           AUTHOR OF " THE CHRISTIAN MOTHER."

                                  LONDON:
               JOHN W. PARKER, WEST STRAND.

                               CAMBRIDGE:

                    J. akd J. J. DEIGHTON.

                                                            M.DCCC.XL1I.
JAN

                         PREFACE.

     More than twenty years having elapsed since the death
     of the subject of this biography, some explanation is,

     perhaps, due, from the Author, respecting the publication
     of a work which has been so long delayed.

          On this point it might be sufficient to observe, in

     general, that those lives, the histories of which best

     deserve the attention of mankind, are, at the same time,

     those which are least dependent for their interest, upon

     the circumstances of time or place. With more par

     ticular reference, however, to the present work, it may

     be fairly asserted, that the value which may be reason

     ably supposed to belong to a faithful Memoir of the

     Life and Character of the late Isaac Milner, by no
                                                                        is,
                                                                           a
     means, of an ephemeral nature. The history of man

     whose mental endowments raised him from poverty and

     obscurity to wealth and fame, must always command

     attention, and possess an enduring worth and                             were
                                                      ;

                                                             if

                                                                  it

     the sole object of the following pages to exhibit an

     eminent instance of the success which, almost invariably,

     in greater or less degree, rewards the vigorous and
     a
                            apersevering exercise of superior talents, such an object
                                   is
     would amply justify their publication. That life must

     surely be worthy of being recorded, of which the whole

     course affords striking illustration of the animating

     truth, that, in this free country, ability and industry are

     the passports to honourable distinction. In the case of

     Dean Milner, however, another and                more powerful
                                       Ifsuperadded.a
     source of interest
                                                                     2
                                                      he were distin

                                                      a
 iv PREFACE.

 guished by his intellectual superiority, he was yet more
 distinguished by his Christian piety. Confessedly in the
 first rank of the mathematicians and philosophers of his
 day, he was "content to receive the kingdom of God as
 a little child*." Gifted with extraordinary mental
 powers, and beyond the generality of his fellow-men, a
master of reason in its own province, he learned to
 submit his gigantic understanding to the humbling doc
trines of Revelation.

     A faithful record of the history and character of such

a man has a peculiar value. There are persons who

secretly, if not avowedly, associate the ideas of piety and

imbecility ; and who, however illogical such a conclusion
may be, do not hesitate to decide, that he who professes
to be governed by Christian principles, must be deficient
in natural understanding.

      Upon Dean Milner no suspicion of mental weakness

can rest. Born in a cottage --labouring with his hands
in early youth -- indebted for the advantages of education

chiefly to the elder brother to whom he afterwards

owned his obligations " with tears of gratitude and affec
tion f," his supercminent abilities gained for him the

highest academical honours, and subsequently placed him
in the Mathematical Chair at Cambridge.

      The opinions of such a man, on any subject to which
he had applied the powers of his mind, must necessarily
carry along with them as much authority as can belong
to any human opinions whatever. The " natural man,"
indeed, whatever may be his mental endowments, "re-
ceiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, * * *

                                                · Luke xviii. 17.

                 t Bee Dean Milker's Life of his Brother.
PREFACE.         V

neither can he know them, because they are spiritually

discerned*," --yet it is something to show, by a brilliant

example, that the possession of the most acute and
vigorous intellect is no bar to the reception of those
Christian doctrines which, though far above, are no wise

opposed to human reason.

     The religious character of Dean Milner presented a
remarkable union of light in the understanding and
warmth in the affections. Having deeply studied the
scheme of Christianity, and possessing a knowledge of it,
perhaps as accurate and complete as the capacity of the
human mind will admit, he was distinguished by a
fervour of feeling not often found in conjunction with
high intellectual attainments.

      His religious sentiments, however, together with the
growing influence which those sentiments obtained over
his character and conduct, are sufficiently unfolded in

the following pages--and that, not only in formal trea

tises, of which some few which were found among his
papers after his decease have been inserted in this

Memoir--but also in his familiar letters, and in the still

more private records of his secret meditations.

      Of the regular discussions on religious subjects con

tained in this volume, those respectively entitled, "A

 Dissertation on Jonathan Edwards's Posthumous Re

marks on Faith and Justification by Faith," -- " Remarks
 upon Dr. Kipling's Work on the Articles of the Church
of England,"--"Thoughts on Baptism and Regenera
tion," --and "An Exposition of the Confession in the

 Church Service," are, perhaps, among the most im

 portant.

* 1 Cor. ii. u.
vi PREFACE.

The value of familiar letters, as materials for a

biographer, is universally acknowledged.      Sir James
Mackintosh somewhere observes, that --" It is impossible

to read a considerable number of any man's letters, how

ever separately insignificant, without insensibly gaining

a just notion of his character."

     The truth of this opinion will, probably, be generally

Iadmitted ; and, as trust, that the numerous letters and

extracts from letters, which have been selected for the
present work, far from being deemed " separately insig
nificant," will be found to possess an individual, and, in

Isome instances, a powerful interest, venture to hope,

that their aggregate value will be materially enhanced.
     Among the letters professedly treating of religious

topics, one addressed to the late Charles Grant, Esq., on

Calvinism and Arminianism, one to the late Archbishop

of Canterbury, on the subject of the Bible Society, and
one to the present Archdeacon R. Wilberforce, on the
rite of Confirmation, may be mentioned as peculiarly

valuable.

     Of the private religious memoranda which have been
admitted into the following Memoir, it is needless, here,

to say more, than that an inspection of the irregular and
diminutive fragments of paper upon which many of them

are written, might convince even a sceptical observer,

that he saw before him a genuine record of the writer's

most secret thoughts ; and, as Dean Milner has himself
remarked, in his Life of his brother, --" It
                                              is,  perhaps,

impossible, under any circumstances, in the present state

of our existence and capacity of mutual communication,

to penetrate more effectually, or with greater certainty,

the secret recesses of the human heart, than by reading

memorandums of this nature."'
             PREFACE.  vii

     Another source of whatever interest may be thought
to belong to this Life of Dean Milner, will be found in
the various reminiscences of him, so characteristic in

Ithemselves, and so graphically expressed, with which

have been favoured by many eminent persons; among
Iwhom
       may particularize Mr. Baron Alderson, the

Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay, Lord Teignmouth, the Rev.

Temple Chevallier, the present Dean of Ely, and the
present Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. Were I,

however, to offer my grateful acknowledgments to each,

by name, of those who have enabled me to enrich my

book with their personal recollections, these prefatory

observations would be extended much beyond their due

limits; and still less can I allow myself space to enu

merate the kind friends who have placed at my disposal

letters written by my late relative, or who have other

wise assisted me in the execution of my task as his
             I must not, however, omit to mention,
biographer.
Iamong those to whom
                      am especially indebted, His

Grace the Archbishop of York, who has, most kindly,

permitted me to publish some highly interesting epis

tolary correspondence between himself and his late friend

the Dean of Carlisle, and the, Right Hon. the Earl of

Lonsdale, who, both by the communication of letters,

and by other kindnesses, has rendered me essential aid.

My best thanks are likewise due to the Rev. William

Richardson, the nephew of the late Rev. William Rich
ardson, of York, for some invaluable letters from the late

Dean to that excellent and highly valued friend ; and to

the Rev. Edward Stillingfleet, for some most interesting

and characteristic letters from the pen of the late Rev.

Joseph Milner. From Archdeacon R. Wilberforce, I have

received the most effective assistance, in the shape of valu
viii PREFACE.

able letters, from Dean Milner to his dear and intimate

friend, the late William Wilberforce ; and, among the

Imultitude of other friends who have conferred upon me

kindness of a similar nature, am bound to mention the

Rev. William Mandell, of Queen's College, Cambridge, --

William Smyth, Esq., Professor of Modern History, in the
same University, --the Rev. George Cornelius Gorham,
Ito whose active friendship
                             am especially indebted, --
the Rev. William Jowett, --the Rev. Richard Kerrich,

the son of one of Dean Milner's oldest and most intimate
friends, -- Colonel T. P. Thompson, to whom a similar

description would be applicable, --the Rev. John Faw-
cett, --G. G. Babington, Esq., -- and Mrs. Maclean, the

daughter of the late Professor Carlyle.

To those numerous kind friends, whose names are

not inserted in this already long catalogue of benefactors,

but who, by their assistance in various ways, have greatly

Ifacilitated the execution of this undertaking, must be

content, in this place, thus generally to present the

expression of my gratitude. There yet, however, remains

one obligation which must be particularly acknowledged;

I mean the important favour, on the part of the President

and Fellows of Queen's Qollege, Cambridge, of the loan
of Opie's fine portrait of Dean Milner, for the purpose of

its being engraved for this work.

   IOf the manner in which have acquitted myself in

this endeavour to lay before the public an authentic
Iaccount of the life and character of Isaac Milner, must
If Ileave others to judge.
                            cannot claim for myself the
I Ipraise of absolute impartiality, can truly say, that

have laboured to guard against the influence of that

favourable bias which is commonly, and often justly,

imputed to those who venture to become the biographers
         PREFACE.                                ix

of near and dear relatives. It may be, however, that,

notwithstanding my utmost vigilance, some traces of such

Ia bias may be detected in the following pages ; if have
Inot magnified Dean Milner's great and good qualities,

may be suspected of having diminished or veiled his
I Ifoibles and imperfections.
         know not, that have given

any cause for such a suspicion, but if it be so, my excuse,

though not my justification, must be, that having lived,

from infancy to womanhood, with him whose character

I have attempted to portray, my intimate and most

familiar knowledge of him, --the most severe of all the

tests to which human infirmity can be subjected, -- has

left upon my mind such a conviction of his greatness

and his goodness, as, combined, doubtless, with the
inevitable effect of the recollection of benefits innume

rable and always utterly unrequitable, conferred with

unwearied and most tender affection throughout the

seasons of infancy and childhood, and the still more

capricious and exacting period of youth, may have ren

dered me unwilling to censure, or, perhaps, unapt to

perceive those slight blemishes which, at the time

Iduring which possessed the advantage of daily con

templating the admirable character of Dean Milner,

were lost in its general excellence.

     The main facts of the early portion of the career of

Dean Milner are already notorious ; and if his private,

and especially his religious character, be more fully

displayed in the following pages, or exhibited in a

stronger light than has hitherto been cast upon
         by
                                                               a

                                                                                 it,

                                                                        it

                                                                                          is
chiefly  means of his own writings, his confidential
letters, and his private meditations, -- species of evidence

the most convincing imaginable.

    The name of Isaac Milner has been long enrolled
X PREFACE.

in the list of those distinguished men who, by superior

intelligence and never-tiring industry, have achieved an
Ihonourable fame.
                   venture to indulge the hope, that

while his title to this proud distinction is strengthened,

his simple and affectionate character, his eminent private,

and social virtues, and, above all, his Christian excel

lence, may be illustrated by the publication for which

I now solicit the favourable judgment of the public.

                                       Mary Milner.

T/te Vicarage, Appleby, Westmoreland,
                  May 21, 1842.
Preface .  ...CONTENTS.                                                 PAOF
                                                           ..
                                                                       . iii

                    CHAPTER I.

Birth of Isaac Milner. -- Notice of his Parents. -- Character sf his Father.
      -- Of his Mother. --Outline of his Childhood by Himself. --His early
       turn for Mathematics. --Premature Death of his Father. -- His Mother

obliged to abandon the plan of giving him a Literary Education. -- He
is apprenticed to a Woollen Manufacturer at Leeds. --Distinction

obtained by Joseph Milner, the elder brother of Isaac, at Cambridge.
-- His subsequent Success in Life. -- He releases his brother Isaac

from his Engagements at Leeds.--Takes him under his own Tuition. --
Makes him his Usher in the Grammar School at Hull. -- Isaac Milner
sent by his Brother to Queen's College, Cambridge. --Gratitude of
Isaac to his Brother. --Strong affection between these Brothers.--

Isaac, while an Undergraduate, refuses to sign a Petition against Sub
scription to the Articles. --Takes his Degree of B.A. -- Is Senior
Wrangler, with the distinction of Incomparabilis. --Becomes a Mem
ber of the Hyson Club. -- Declines the office of Tutor to a Polish
Prince. -- Early friendship with the late William Hey, Esq., of
Leeds. -- Notice of Mr. Milner by an early Friend still living. -- Mr.

Milner euters into Holy Orders           .  .                  .              1

                    CHAPTER II.

Mr. Milner is elected Fellow of Queen's College. --Takes his degree of
M.A. -- Is elected Tutor of Queen's. -- Makes a communication to the
Royal Society. -- Is ordained Priest. --Presented to the Rectory of

St. Botolph's, Cambridge. -- Makes various communications to the
Royal Society. -- Injures his Health by inhaling a noxious Gas. --Is
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. -- Is Moderator. -- Reads Public

Lectures in Chymistry. -- Is Proctor. -- Commencement of his acquaint
ance with William Wilberforce, Esq. -- Correspondence. -- Letter from

Joseph Milner to the Rev. James Stillingfleet. -- Isaac Milner is

elected to the Jackson ian Professorship. -- Gives alternate courses of

Lectures in Chymistry and Experimental Philosophy. --Correspond

ence. -- Assists in the Formation of a Society for the promotion of
Philosophy and General Literature. --Travels on the Continent with
Mr. Wilberforce. -- Voyage down the Rhone. -- House at Nice.-- Mar
seilles. -- English Society at Nice. -- Mr. Milner's Religious Princi
ples. -- Religious                       Mr. Wilberforce. -- Returns with
Mr. Wilberforce     Conversation with    Moderator.-- Climate of Nice. --
                      to England. -- Is
xii CONTENTS.

Perilous Accident. --Second Journey with Mr. Wilberforce to the
           Religious Conversation. -- Meeting with Lavater. --Mys
Continent

tical turn of Lavater's mind.--Letter from him to Mr. Milner. --
Rev. Thomas Scott's account of Mr. Milner's Travels with Mr. Wil
berforce. -- Correspondence. -- Tissot  . . . .12

           CHAPTER III.

Mr. Milner takes his Degree of B.D.---Professor Smyth's Recollections of
      his Divinity Act. --Bishop Watson's Account of the same Act. --Re

     collections of Mr. Milner as a Lecturer. --Dr. Maskelyne. --Corre
     spondence. --Mr. Milner as Jacksouian Professor endeavours to obtain

       from the Crown an annual Stipend in support of the Science of
      Chymistry. --Bishop of Llandaff. --Mr. Milner's mode of Life as a
      Lecturer. -- Accident and Illness. -- Visits his Brother at HulL-- Board
      of Longitude. --Attempt to alter its Constitution. -- Energy of Mr.

     Milner. --Visit to London. --Chymical Pursuits. -- Letter from Dr.
      Priestley. -- Visit to Rayrigg, in Westmoreland. --Mode of Life there.

    -- Conversational Powers.--Visit to Hull . . . .31

           CHAPTER IV.

Mr. Milner is elected President of Queen's College. -- Improvements in
       the internal management of the College. -- Letters. -- Feelings on
      being elected President. -- Popular Philosophical Writers. -- Ferguson.
      -- Martin. --Maclaurin. -- View of Public Affairs on the Illness Of the
      King. --Letter from Joseph Milner to the Rev. James Stillingfleet. --
      Illness. -- Letter from Joseph Milner on his Brother's Illness. --Cor

      respondence. --Communication to the Royal Society. -- Formally ex

cused on account o'f Ill-health, from delivery of Jacksonian Lectures.
-- Letters from Drs. Hunter and Fothergill. --Lectures continued
with assistance. -- Fondness for practical Mechanics. -- Extracts from

Correspondence with the Rev. T. Ludlam. -- Sentiments concerning
.40Card-Playing. -- Private Religious Diary
                                        .  .  .

                                      CHAPTER V.                        . 56
Extracts from Private Diary. -- Prayers and Religious Meditations

           CHAPTER VI.

Mechanical Pursuits. --Nominated to the Deanery of Carlisle. --Corre
spondence. -- Illness of Joseph Milner. -- Dr. Paley. -- Distinguishing
Traits in the character of Dean Milner. -- Slave Trade Abolition. --
Revolutionary Spirit in England. -- Correspondence. -- Mr. Milner
takes the degree of D.D. -- Visits his Brother at Hull. -- Letter from

Joseph Milner to the Rev. James Stillingfleet. -- Explanation of some

Peculiarities in Dr. Milner's conduct. -- Extracts from Correspondence

with William Hey, Esq.-- Certificates of Ill-health. -- Dr. Milner
elected Vice-Chancellor. --Correspondence. -- State of the Country. --
Observations on the Character of Fox. -- Mr. Pitt re-elected M.P. for
                                        . . . . .70
the University of Cambridge
                          CONTENTS.                                               xiii

                          CHAPTER VII.

Socinian Principles in the University. --Mr. Frend. --His Seditious Pamph PAOB
let. --Meeting of the Masters and Fellows of Jesus College. -- Care of

the Vice-Chancellor  to"  procure the best Legal Advice. -- Meeting of
" The Twenty-Seven        at Queen's Lodge. -- Determination to insti

tute against Mr. Frend proceedings in the Vice-Chancellor's Court. --
Citation of Mr. Frend. --His Trial. -- Sentence of Banishment from
the University pronounced upon him by the Vice-Chancellor. --Mr.
Frend appeals to the Senate. --Confirmation of the sentence of the
Vice-Chancellor, pronounced by the Court of Delegates. --Firmness
of Dr. Milner. -- His unflinching attachment to the Doctrines of the
Established Church. --Notice of Mr. Frend's Trial by Professor
Smyth. -- Dr. Milncr's Speech at the conclusion of the Trial. --Ad
dress to the Undergraduates.--Impressive style of his Eloquence. --
Visit of Joseph Milner to his Brother at Cambridge.-- Mr. Simeon. --
State of Religion. --Dr. Milner takes formal possession of the

.84Deanery of Carlisle. -- Remarkable Dream . . .

                          CHAPTER VIII.

Conduct of Dr. Milner as Head of a College. --Letter to a Friend on the
      Death of his Daughter. --Publication of the first volume of the His
      tory of the Church. -- Public Affairs. -- Political Conduct of Mr. Wilber-
      force. --Extracts from Dr. Milner's Letters to him at this juncture. --
      Publication of the second volume of the Church History.--Dr. Milner's

       Chymical Pursuits. --Correspondence with Mr. Kirwan and the Bishop
      of Llandaff.-- Their Letters.-- Dr. Buchanan.-- Visit to Hull.-- Wil
      lingness of Dr. Milner to preach for his Friends. --Extracts from Cor
       respondence. --Visit to Buxton. -- Letter from Joseph Milner to the
       Rev. James Stillingfleet. -- His testimony to his Brother's plainness of
      speech in the Pulpit Declaration of Dr. Paley. --Extract from one
      of the Dean's early Sermons. -- Society at Buxton. --Miss Seward.--
     Lord Erskine. --Correspondence. -- Illness. --Gradual and constant im
      provement in Religious Character. --Publication of the third volume
       of the Church History. --Correspondence. -- Wilberforce's Practical
      View. -- Visit to Bath. --Public Affairs. -- Letter on Reform. -- Mr. Til-

lotson  ..                . . . . .103

                                   CHAPTER IX.

Joseph Milner visits his Brother at Carlisle. -- Appointment of Joseph
      Milner to the Vicarage of Hull. -- His Letters. --Religious condition of
      Carlisle in 1797.--Feelings of Joseph Milner on his promotion to the
      Vicarage. --Correspondence of Dr. Milner. --Rev. Mr. Thomason. --
      Declining health of Joseph Milner. -- Dr. Milner's Opinion concerning
      Private Tutors. --Important Change of Character. --Joseph Milner's
      last Illness. --His Letters to his Brother and to Mr. Stillingfleet. --His
       Opinion of Dr. Johnson.-- Great chango which had taken place in his
xiv CONTENTS.

Religious Sentiments. -- His Death.--Monumental Inscription. -- Kx-
tracts from Correspondence of Dr. Milner. -- Qpium. -- letter to the
Rev. William Richardson. --.Joseph Milner's Style. -- Publication of
his Sermons. -- Letters. --To Mrs. Carlyle. --To Mr. Wilbei-force. --
Affairs of Trinity College. -- Importance of the Expulsion of Mr.
Frend. -- Disturbed State of Ireland. --Duel between Mr. Pitt and
Mr. Tierney. -- Variety of Dr. Milner's Information -- Mendoza. --

Irish Affiurs.-- The Bishop of D                      . . . .129

                      CHAPTER X.

Dr. Milner is elect.-d Professor of Mathematics. --Opposition of Mr. Frend.
--" ROaptiinoinoanl"  of Counsel. -- Correspondence.
                      way of Preaching. -- Luther's    -- Domestic Affliction. --
                                                      Letter to Caspar Aquila. --

Publication of a second edition of the first volume of the Church
History.--Correspondence. -- Letter to the Rev. William Richardson.
.......--Dr. Milner's Religious Experience. --Jonathan Edwards .
                                                                     .169

                                   CHAPTER XL

Dissertation on Jonathan Edwards' Posthumous Remarks on Faith, and
      Justification by Faith.--Quotation from a Sermon by Dean Milner on

the same Subject                                                                   181

                      CIIAPTER XII.

Animadversions upon Lord Grenville's Answer to Buonaparte's Letter to

    George III. -- Correspondence. -- Religious Experience. -- William
Hey, Esq.--Liberality of Dean Milner towards the poor of Leeds. --
Letters to the Rev. Wm. Richardson. --Distress of mind. -- Professor
Carlyle. --Remarks on the Religious Experience of Dean Milner. --
Letters. --Dr. Haweis's Impartial History of the Church. --Dean Mil
                      Brother. -- Subsequent additions to the Life,
ner's Life of his                                                    respect
ing the change        in Joseph Milner's Religious Views. --Dr.      Milner's
Feelings during the Writing of the Life. --Elasticity of Spirits. --

Charge of Irregularity recently brought against the late Rev. Joseph
Milner. --Dr. Hook. --Letter to the Rev. James Stillingfleet. --Dr.

Haweis. --Letter to a Friend on the dangerous Illness of his Son. --
Letters to the Rev. Wm. Richardson. -- Opinion of the present Bishop
of Calcutta upon Dean Milner's Religious Publications. -- Dr. Milner's
attachment to Cambridge. -- His conscientious Employment of Time . 202

                               CHAPTER XIII.

Commencement of Dr. Milner's acquaintance with Henry Martyn. --
      Fourth volume of the History of the Church ofjChrist. -- Luther. --Com
      mentary on the Galatians. -- Professor Smyth. --Passage in his pub
      lished Lectures. -- Dean Milner's alleged partiality to Luther. --Cor
      respondence -- Rev. W. Terrot. -- Letter to a young Friend in his last
      Illness. --New edition of Joseph Milner's Sermons. -- Internal Manage-
               CONTENTS.                                                      XV

ment of Queen's College. --Tutors. --Correspondence, -- London Bridge.
--Professor Farish. -- Sunday Travelling. -- Dr. Haweis. --Rev. T.Lud-
lam. -- New edition of the Life of Joseph Milner. -- Sir William
                                        . . . .229
Wynne.-- Letters.-- Mrs. Stillingfleet

               CHAPTER XIV.

Confidential Correspondence. --Chapter Business. -- Illness. -- Sermon at
      Whitehall. -- Rowland Hill. --Fourth volume of Ecclesiastical History.
      -- Vigour and Perseverance of Dean Milner. -- Accident on Stainmore.
       --Prominent Trait in Dean Milner's Mind. -- Anecdotes. --Rev. Mr.
      Church. --Letters. -- Domestic Affairs. -- Discovery of the Invisible

Girl           .. . .                   . . .251

                                     CHAPTER XV.

Misunderstanding between the President and the Fellows of Queen's Col
      lege. --Written Documents. --Industry of Dr. Milner. --Election of
      Fellows by Royal Dispensation. -- Comparative Advantages of Open

      or Close Colleges. --Domestic Affliction. -- Board of Longitude. --Sen
      timents with respect to Public Affairs. -- Letter to the Rev. Wm.
       Richardson. --Preaching at Carlisle. --Fourth volume of the Church
       History. --Accuracy of the History. --Dr. Milner's Qualifications as an
       Ecclesiastical Historian. -- Habitual Study of Theological Subjects. --
       Remarks upon Dr. Kipling's Work on the Articles Of the Church of
       England. -- Hebrew Language. -- State of the Country. -- Recollections
      of Dean Milner by a Clergyman formerly of Queen's College -- Chris
       tian Observer's Critique upon Milner's Church History. --Dr. Milner's
       Remarks on the Critique. -- His Opinion of the Christian Observer . . 265

                                 CHAPTER XVI.

Correspondence. -- Religious Experience. -- Professor Carlyle. --Letter to
       his Sister on his Death.-- Domestic Affairs. --Religious Memoranda. --
       Hints for Sermons. --Private Thoughts. --Helps to Self-examination.
       -- Religious Correspondence. --Library at Lambeth. -- Affairs of the
       Board of Longitude. -- History of the Church. --Perseverance. -- Inves
       tigation of the Sawston Mystery. -- Letter to John Pearson, Esq., on
       the Death of his Daughter. -- Kindness of Heart. --Visit to London . 294

               CHAPTER XVII.

Gradual alteration in the nature of the Examinations for Fellowships
at Queen's College. -- Letter to the present Archbishop of York (then
Bishop of Carlisle) on the death of his Son.--Contested Election for
the University of Cambridge.-- Lord Palmerston. -- Lord Henry Petty
                                   --Correspondence with Mr.
(the present    Lord Lansdowne).  ear for Music. --Experiment  Wilber-
force. -- Dr.  Milner's want of
                                                                on the

subject, tried by himself and his brother. -- Dr. Milner's knowledge of
the science of Music. -- Recollections of him by Dr. Crotch.-- Mr. La
xvi CONTENTS.

Trobo. -- Dr. Jowett. -- Dr. Hague.--Mr. Aspland. --Dr. Milner's wantsuicide314

........of eyo for perspective Drawing.--Management of the affairs of the

University Press. --Personal exertions. -- Sir Samuel Romilly. --
Hobby-horses. --Short-hand.-- Arbitration. --Habits of life at Carlisle.
-- Rose Castle. --Lowther Castle. -- Anecdotes. -- Serious occupations.
--Visits to a person under sentence of death. -- Judicious treatment of
the sick and dying. --Treatment of a man who had attempted
         CHAPTER XV HI.

History of the Church. -- Third volume translated into German. --Trans
lation of Joseph Milner's Sermons into German. -- Letter to the
Bishop of Meath. --Visit to Cambridge of the Chancellor of the
University. -- Professor Porson.--University Press. --Rev. T. Thoma-
son. -- Professor Smyth. -- Dr. Milner's Sermon at St. Mary's, agaiust
Catholic Emancipation.-- Consistency of character. -- Address to the
King. -- General Election. -- Busy Chapter at Carlisle. --Musical Fes
tival.--Thoughts respecting Preaching. -- Private Reflections. -- Rev.
Christian Ignatius La Trobe. -- Musical Society at Cambridge. --

Dr. Jowett's musical parties. -- Discussion concerning certain disputed

points of Chronology. -- Correspondence. -- Governorship of Sieri-a
Leone. -- Second volume of Joseph Milner's Sermons. --Fifth volume
of Ecclesiastical History. -- Board of Longitude. -- Carlisle.--Corre
spondence. -- Assize Sermon. -- Dr. Buchanan. --Dean Milner's senti
ments respecting Races and Theatrical Representations. --Letter on
the proposed erection of a Theatre. --Advice respecting College
Lectures.--Reading lamp. --Dr. Edward Daniel Clarke. -- New edition
of Milner's Works. --Kensington Gore. --Rev. Thomas Kerrich.--

Social intercourse. -- Evening visits from old Friends  . . 334

                                  CHAPTER XIX.

Examination for Smith's Prize. -- Recollections of this Examination by
      Sir Edward H. Aldcrson. --Fifth volume of the Church History.--
      Joseph Milner's Sermons. -- Correspondence. --Board of Longitude. --
      Revival of Luther's character. --The term "Methodism." -- Thoughts
       on Baptism and Regeneration. -- Establishment of a National School
       at Carlisle. -- Opinions of Dr. Buchanan concerning the History of the
      Church of Christ. -- Visit to Hull.-- Anecdote. -- Return to Cambridge . 369

                                     CHAPTER XX.

Dr. Milner unexpectedly elected Vice-Chancellor. --Difficult circum
       stances. -- Satisfaction of Friends. -- Right of the University to take
      cognizance of Causes between its own Members. -- Extracts from Dr.
      Milner's private Memoranda. --Communication to Dr. Browne. --
       Holding of the Vice-Chancellor's Court. -- Cause dismissed. --Speech
      of the Vice-Chancellor. -- Minute of "Ada Curia" drawn up by Dr.
      Milner. --Private letter to Counsel -- Approbation of Friends. -- Bishop
CONTEXTS.                                                                 xvii

of Bristol. -- Riots at Cambridge. --Court held at Queen's Lodge. --
Sentence pronounced. -- Dr. Bell's donation to the University for the
founding of Eight New Scholarships. --Expulsion of three Students.
--Public admonition of Mr.          .--Communication from the
Bishop of Bristol. --Extent and variety of business. --Devotional
Btudies. -- Letter from Dr. Bell on the founding of his Scholarships. --
Commencement Sunday. --Dr. Buchanan's Sermons. -- Approbation of

them expressed by Dr. Milner. -- Correspondence with Dr. Bell. --

First Election of Scholars upon this Foundation. -- Anecdote of the
Examination. --Dr. Milner's humour qualified by his good nature. --
Anecdote. -- L'Eau Me'dicinale. -- Attempts to discover its ingredients.
-- Attention to the interests of Religion. -- Rev. Mr. Kerrich. --His
Portrait of Dr. Milner His opinions concerning portrait-painting. --
Correspondence with the Bishop of Carlisle. --Methodical mode of
transacting business. --John Bowdler, Junr., Esq. --Dr. Stewart's
method of treating Consumption. --Continued fondness for Mechanics.
--Clepsydra. --Letter to the Bishop of Bristol on the death of his
Son. --Vice-Chancellor's Dinners -- Mode of conducting them. -- Dr.

Milner's social temperament. -- Remarks on this subject by the present

Bishop of Calcutta . . . . .                                              .381

CHAPTER XXI.

Observations by Dr. Milner upon the principal events and circumstances

of his Vice-Chancellorship, with an explanation of his conduct in

regard to them; embodied in an "Address to the Heads of Colleges
and to the other Members of the Senate." --Honourable mention of

Dr. Paley . . . . . .                                                     .421

CHAPTER XXII.

Extracts from correspondence. -- Application from a poor Workman of
Leeds. -- Engraving of Portrait --Heraldry. -- Bell's Scholars -- Re
marks on the Bishop of Lincoln's Refutation of Calvinism. --Religious
course of reading. -- Habit of lending religious books. -- History of
Religion in Scotland. --Catholic Question. -- Love of Children. --
Camera Obscura. -- Board of Longitude. --Election of University Chan
cellor. --Of Representative in Parliament. -- Energy of Dr. Milner. --
Confidential Correspondence. --Ancient walls of the City of Carlisle. --
Memorial to the Lords of the Treasury. -- Letter to Mr. Perceval. --
Extensive Correspondence. -- Dr. Bell. --Installation of the Duke of
Gloucester. -- Mr. Wilberforce. -- Mr. Henry Thornton. --Conversa
tion. --Journey to Carlisle. -- New edition of Milner's Works. --Confi
dential Letter to a Relative on the loss of a younger Brother. --
Excellent judgment in matters of decoration. -- Rundell and Bridge.
-- Sugar castor. -- Return to Cambridge. -- The Comet. -- Dr. Browne

elected Vice-Chancellor. -- Dr. Milner's rule of conduct in delicate
circumstances. -- Letter to Lady C  G .-- Books recom

mended. -- General opinion respecting Boarding Schools  .                 "

                                                        b
xviii  CONTENTS.

                              CHAPTER XXIII.

                                                                                             FlU
Organization of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society.--Caution of Dr.

      Miluer. -- His Conduct misunderstood. --Outline of Circumstances. --
      Proper Couduct of Undergraduates. -- Dr. Milner's Advice to them. --
      Conference with Dr. Jowett, Mr. Simeon, Professor Parish, &c. -- Dr.

Marsh's Address to the Senate. -- Correspondence with Dr. Jowett.
-- Luther. --Letter of Mr. Vansittart. --Meeting at the Town Hall on
the Twelfth of December.-- Speech of Dr. Milner. -- Enthusiastic
       Reception. -- Extract of Letter from the Bishop of Bristol
                                                                   . . 463

       CHAPTER XXIV.

The New Year. --Correspondence with Government. --Catholic Question.
      -- Preparation for Answer to Dr. Marsh's Inquiry. --Correspondence
      with Mr. "Wilberforce -- Perceval.--Bible Society.-- Rev. Mr. Steiu-
kopff. -- Diocesan School at CarUsle.-- Correspondence with the Bishop.

-- Opinions of the two Archbishops. -- Mechanical pursuits.-- Concert
of Ancient Music. -- Advice to a Person desirous of receiving Orders.
--Mastership of Downing College. -- Letters to the Archbishop of

York. --Visit of Louis XVIII. to the University. --General Monk. --
Petition against Catholic claims. --Domestic Affliction. -- Letters. --To
Bishop of Carlisle. --From Mr. Vansittart. -- Mode of Reading. --Mar
ginal Annotations. --Speech of Robert Hall at the Leicester Bible
Society Meeting. --Correspondence with Dr.  .--Anecdote. --
....Solitary Residence at Carlisle. --Reminiscences by a surviving Friend.

Death of Dr. Milner's Niece.-- He returns to Cambridge.-- Death of
Mr. Tillotson. --Conscientious Testimonials to Clergymen.-- First
Anniversary of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society. -- Dr. Milner's
Speech. --Correspondence. --Meaning of the term, pretty good Classic.
-- Accurate knowledge of Grammar                                                483

                                .CHAPTER XXV.
Examination for Smith's Prize. --Recollections of Dean Milner by Sir

      John Herschel, the Dean of Ely, and Lord Teignmouth. -- Catholic
      Question. --Letter to the Bishop of Meath. -- Publication of Strictures
       on the Writings of Dr. Marsh. -- Letter to the Archbishop of Canter
      bury on the subject of the Biblo Society Alleged neutrality of the
      Archbishop..-- Management of National Schools. --Interests of the
      Established Church. -- Importance of the Bible Society. --Objects of
      the Strictures. --Extracts. --History. -- Natural Philosophy. --Doctrine
      of Probabilities. --Study of Divinity. --Value and use of the Prayer
      Book. --Sentiments on Predestination. --Conclusion.-- Review of Stric

      tures in the Christian Observer. -- Correspondence. --Right Hon. N.
      Vansittart. --National Schools. -- Recollections of a Visit to Queen's
      Lodge, by the Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay. -- Correspondence.--
      Bishop of Carlisle. --Bishop of Durham. --Opinions of Friends concer
      ning the Strictures. --Affairs of East India College. -- Extracts from
      Letters. -- Z. Macaulay, Esq. --Lady Olivia Sparrow. -- Hannah More.
      --Point of Similarity between the Characters of Dr. Milner and Dr.
      Johnson. -- Busy Chapter. -- Lawsuit. -- Sunday Consultations. --Assize
                    CONTEXTS.                                                  xix

Sermon at Carlisle. -- Sir E. Alderson. -- Alteration in the Conduct of
the Assizes introduced by Dean Milner. --His Opinion concerning the
Management of the Diocesan School. --Religious Correspondence. --
Labours in the Pulpit. -- Indisposition. --Modes of taking Exercise. --

Establishment of the Carlisle Auxiliary Bible Society.-- Conduct of
Dean Milner. --Letters. --Duke of Norfolk. --Lord Morpeth. --Meet
ing. -- The Dean's Speech. -- Correspondence respecting the Bible
Society. -- Dislike of Fruitless Disputation. --Increasing attachment
to the Bible Society. -- Return to Cambridge. -- Indifferent Health. --
Mental Energy. --Attendance on Professor Tennant's Lectures. --The

... ...Rev. W. Whewell. --Galvanic Battery. --Death of Dr. Jowett. --

Second Anniversary of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society. --Me
moir of Dr. Jowett. -- Letter to the Chairman of the Cambridge Bible
Society Meeting. --Euler's Works. -- Inscription to the Memory of Dr.
Jowett. --National Schools. -- Letter to the Bishop of Norwich. --"Visit
to Kensington Gore                                                             524

                    CHAPTER XXVI.

Feelings on the loss of Dr. Jowett. --Society of Dr. Buchanan.--Pro
      fessor Lee.--Dr. Milner becomes a Fellow of the Society of Anti
      quaries. --Recollections of a second visit at Queen's Lodge by the
      Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay. -- Luther. -- Melancthon. -- Declining
      Health. --Occupations and Studies. --Opinion of Physicians. -- Family
      Worship. -- Expositions of Scripture. -- Letter from a Clergyman con
      taining a remarkable account of his Religious Experience. -- Rev.
      Joseph Milner's observations on a case of sudden Conversion. -- Dean

      Milner's Letter to the Chairman of the First Anniversary Meeting
      of the Carlisle Auxiliary Bible Society. --Detained at Carlisle through
      the winter. -- Letter intended to be read at the formation of an Aux

iliary Church Missionary Society at Cambridge.-- Sentiments respect
ing the management of the Church Missionary Society. --Letters. --
Democratic Spirit prevalent at Carlisle. --Establishment of The Patriot

Newspaper. -- Correspondence with the Archbishop of York on the
death of his Daughter. --Contributions to The Patriot. --Maps.--Philo
sophical Apparatus. --Testimonial.-- Grammar School at Leeds.--
Hints for the conducting of a Grammar School --Second Letter from

a Clergyman, with further account of his Religious Experience and

Conduct.-- Extracts from Religious Correspondence  . . 592

                                CHAPTER XXVII.
New Year's Day. --Tranquil State of Mind. -- Amended Health. --Ex

      tracts from Correspondence. -- Return to College. -- Visit to London.
      -- Dean Milner makes his Will.-- Returns to Carlisle. --Thunder
      Storm.--Danger of Lightning. --Busy Summer. --Election of Regius
       Professor of Divinity at Cambridge. -- Correspondence with the Rev.
      Charles Simeon. --Extracts from confidential Letters. --Assizes.--
      Strictness of Principle. --Affability of Manners. -- Baptismal Contro
      versy. --Dr. Mant's Tracts. --Proceedings of the Society for Promoting
      Christian Knowledge. -- Bishop of Calcutta.-- Rev. John Scott.-- Dr.
XX CONTENTS.

Laurence. -- General Observations on Adult and Infant Baptism. -- Re             629

J.marks on the Rev. Scott's Sermon on Baptism. -- Absence of a dicta

torial tone. -- Return to Cambridge. -- Death of the Princess Charlotte

                  CHAPTER XXVIII.

Religious Reading. -- Examination of Candidates for Smith's Prize.- --

.....Recollections of this Examination by the Rev. Temple Chevallier. --

     Pulmonary Diseases. --Their Treatment. --Observations addressed to
      Charles Grant, Esq. on Calvinism and Arminianism. -- Domestic
      Affairs. --Recreations at Carlisle. --Mechanics. --Natural History. --

      Religious Correspondence and Studies Letter to a Godson previous
      to his Confirmation. --Letter from Charles Grant, Esq. -- Departure
from Carlisle. -- Amended Health                                                 652

                  CHAPTER XXIX.

Board of Longitude. -- Chapter Business. -- Friendship and Correspondence
      with the late Rev. Robert Goodenough. --Dean Milner becomes Presi
      dent of the Carlisle Church Missionary Association. --Correspondence.

.......--Modes of Usefulness. --Conversation. --Family Prayer. --Private

      Religious Meditations. -- Improvement of Health. --Attendance at the
      Board of Longitude. --Sir Samuel Rom illy .--Meeting with old Friends.
      -- Letter to the Bishop of Carlisle. -- Strong Expression of Satisfaction
       in the Dispersion of the Bible. --State of the Country -- General Tone
      of Newspapers. -- Louis Dix-huit. -- New Churches at Carlisle. --Conclu
sion of the Year                                                                 672

                  CHAPTER XXX.

Examination for Smith's Prize. --Board of Longitude. --Influence of Deau
     Milner's Character.--Visit to London. -- Professor Lee. --Undimi

nished Energy of Character. -- Increasing interest in matters con
nected with Carlisle. --Cheerfulness. -- Benevolence. -- Scientific Pur

suits. --Correspondence. -- Letter on the Death of William Hey, Esq.
of Leeds. -- Increasing Seriousness and Spirituality of Mind. --Bishop
of Peterborough's Questions to Candidates for Orders.-- Declining
Health. --Visit of the Chancellor to Cambridge at the Commencement.
--Correspondence. --Professorship of Natural Philosophyat Edinburgh.
--Testimonial in favour of Dr. Chalmers. -- Testimonial in favour of
Charles Babbage, Esq.--Correspondence. --Bishop of Carlisle. -- Disaf
fection at Carlisle. --Last Attendance at the Board of Longitude. --
Religious Correspondence.-- Vigour of Mind. -- Last Examination for

Smith's Prize. -- Reminiscences of a Visit at Queen's Lodge, by the

.......Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay. -- Final Departure of Dr. Milner from

Cambridge. --Last Visit to Kensington Gore.-- Recollections of the
Dean by a Lady then visiting at Mr. Wilberforce's. -- His Vivacity
and Kindness. --Conversation on Philosophical Subjects. -- Exposition
of the Confession. -- Religious Conversation.--Extracts from Corre
spondence. --Last Illness. -- Death. -- Funeral. --Personal Appearance.
--Character                                                                      686
                LIFE

                                                                                 OF

       ISAAC MILNER.

                                CHAPTER I.

Birth of Isaac Milner. -- Notice of his Parents. --Character of his Father.--
       Of his Mother. --Outline of his Childhood by himself.--His early turn for
       Mathematics. --Premature Death of his Father. --His Mother obliged to
      abandon the plan of giving him a literary education. --He is apprenticed
      to a Woollen Manufacturer at Leeds. --Distinction obtained by Joseph
       Milner, the elder Brother of Isaac, at Cambridge. --His subsequent suc
       cess in Life. -- He releases his Brother Isaac from his engagements at
       Leeds. --Takes him under his own tuition. -- Makes him his Usher in the
       Grammar School at Hull. -- Isaac Milner sent by his Brother to Queen's
       College, Cambridge. --Gratitude of Isaac to his Brother. --Strong affection
       between these -Brothers. -- Isaac, while an Under-graduate, refuses to sign
       a Petition against subscription to the Articles. -- Takes his degree of B.A.
       -- Is Senior Wrangler, with the distinction of Incomparabilis. -- Becomes
       a Member of the Hyson Club. -- Declines the office of Tutor to a Polish
       Prince. --Early Friendship with the late William Hey, Esq., of Leeds. --
       Notice of Mr. Milner by an early Friend, still living. --Mr. Milner enters
       into Holy Orders.
                                   A.D. 1750. JETAT. 1.

Isaac Milner, the third son of his parents, was born, as

appears from the register of baptisms kept in the parish church
at Leeds, in Mabgate, in that town, on the 11th day of January,
in the year of our Lord 1750, and was baptized on the 13th day
of the same month.

     Of the condition of his father little is known, except that he
had been unsuccessful in business, and that his circumstances
had suffered exceedingly from accidents during the Rebellion of
1 745 ; insomuch, that he had very little to spare from the neces

sary demands of his family*. It appears by the register already

mentioned, that his eldest son, Samuel, was born in Mabgate,
on the 10th of October, 17-39, and his second son, Joseph,

      * See Dr. Milker's Life of [his brother,] the Rev. Joseph Milner.

                                                                                                      B
 2 CHAP. I. A.D. 1750. JETAT. 1.

 afterwards the Historian of the Church of Christ, at Quarry

 Hill, on the 2nd of January, 1743. It is, however, probable,

 that notwithstanding the different wording of the registers, there

 was no change of residence, Quarry Hill and Mabgate joining

 upon each other, and their respective limits being not very
 clearly defined. They are now densely inhabited parts of the
 town of Leeds; but the house now, or till very lately, known
 and shown as the birth-place of Isaac Milner, and situated

 near to St. Mary's, or as it is sometimes called, Quarry Hill

 Church, must, probably, at the date of even the latest of the
 registers, have stood almost in the country. The house has
 been, within the last few years, altered and improved in appear
 ance, by having been plastered in imitation of stone. An outer
 door, studded with large-headed nails, like the door of a prison,
 has also been removed.

      That the father of the young Milners was a man of strong
 sense and extraordinary industry and self-denial* there is abun
 dant evidence; Having experienced^ in his own case, the want
of a good education, he early resolved, that, at whatever inconve
nience to himself or his family, his children should possess that
advantage; and this resolution he kept, althmigh at the Cost of
many personal sacrifices, till his sudden death; an event which
took place soon after his son Isaac had attained his tenth year.

     The mother of Isaac Milner, "a good and valuable mother,"
he calls her, in the work already cited, seems to have been, upon
the whole, a partner well suited to her husband. She was not,
indeed, a woman of good temper, but she was remarkable for
her sound and vigorous understanding, for the active turn of her
mind, and for a vein of shrewd humour which rendered her
conversation, uneducated as she was, acceptable to persons of

the highest attainments. She reached a great age; and although
her mind did not retain its powers to the last, she was permitted
to enjoy, in the advancement of her two younger sons, the
reward of her early struggles; and died beloved and respected,

at the house of her son Joseph, at Hull, in the year 1 796 *.

   * Some particulars in this account I rated by the recollections of a gentle-
of Dr. Milner's mother are corrobo- J man now living, and formerly a pupil
                    CHAP. I. A.D. 1756. jETAT. 6.                                   3

     An outline of Dr. Milner's childhood, has been thus traced

by his own hand:
     * Isaac, when a little boy of six years old, began to accom

pany his brother Joseph every day to the Grammar School*;
and at ten years of age could construe Ovid and Sallust into

tolerable English, and was then beginning to learn the rudi
ments of the Greek language. The premature death of their
father ruined all the prospects of Isaac's advancement in learn
ing. His mother was obliged to abandon the prosecution of
her husband's plan; and, that her son might acquire a liveli
hood by honest industry, she wisely employed him in learning
several branches of the woollen manufactory at Leeds."

     Two circumstances which, in this simple and beautiful ac
count of his own childhood, have been omitted by Dr. Milner,

are here supplied.

     His turn for mathematical studies exhibited itself very early.
He frequently, towards the close of his life, spoke of a sundial
which he had constructed at the age of eight years; and said,

Iof the Rev. Joseph Milner, at the          "One evening, a party of friends
Grammar School at Hull. " re assembled at the house of the Rev.

member,"   says  he, in a  letter  to the   Joseph Milner were discussing, among
author of  this  Memoir,             must
                           " what           other religious topics, the character of
                                            St. Paul ; Joseph Milner expressed
have been your great-grandmother, the       very strongly his idea of the privilege
                                            and happiness of those persons who
mother of your uncles Joseph and

Isaac. She lived in the house with

Iyour uncle Joseph, and was of a great      enjoyed opportunities of personal in

age, and, believe, had rather out           tercourse with the Apostle; and said,
lived her faculties. She used to be
                                            that he could scarcely conceive a
my terror, for I had to go onco a week
                                            higher gratification than to have sat in
into the house to help to bring out a
                                            'hiAs yc,ombapiarnny,'  and heard   him converse.
globe, to, what we called, 'do globes' and                          interposed  his mother, in
the old lady used to seize me by the
                                            her broad Yorkshire dialect, 'but thou

long hair, such as boys wore in those       would'st not have let him have all the
days, and declare she wanted it for a       talk to himself,-- thou would'st have

wig, and pull most uncommonly hard,         put in thy word, I'll Warrant thee.'

Ias if by way of realizing her design,      Joseph Milner, who was, in fact, when

while was both unable to bear, and          he liked his company, a great talker,

afraid to resist."                          joined very heartily in the laugh thus

   Another anecdote, characteristic of      raised at his expense."
the shrewd humour of Mrs. Milner,              * The Grammar School at Leeds,

Ibefore her faculties were blunted by       of which school the Rev. Mr. Moore

age, have myself frequently heard           was, at that time, head master.

from (he tips of her son Isaac.

                                                                                B2
4 CHAP. I. A.D. 1759. JETAT.O.

that during one of his visits to Leeds, after he became Dean of

Carlisle, he had earnestly endeavoured to discover the marks of

it upon a wall near the house in which he was born. Another

circumstance omitted by Dr. Milner,         is          his having been taken
                                                   is,
during his childhood, --by whom, or on what occasion, cannot
now be known,--to London. It certain, that in later life he
used to relate, " that the first time he ever heard about war or

the French,  was    w"hoeunt  he   was   a little child in London. He was
taken,'' he  said,             of   bed   late at night, and carried to the

window. All the street was alive, though was midnight; the
                                                        it
watchman was calling, Past twelve o'clock, Quebec taken.''   it,
The news," he said, "came late; and the Lord Mayor had

given orders that the watchmen should cry with the hour,

all through the city."

     The date of the taking of Quebec of course fixes this journey
to London to the ninth year of Dr. Milner's life.

     And now there appeared every reason to expect that the
future life of Isaac Milner would be spent " in labouring with
his hands in the manufactories of Yorkshire;" but Providence

had, for him, other things in store.
     By the kindness of Mr. Moore, who had early discovered his

great abilities, and by the liberality of other friends, Joseph
Milner, the elder brother of Isaac, had been sent to the Uni

versity of Cambridge, where he had fulfilled the promise of his

youth, by obtaining, besides very honourable place in the lista
of Mathematicaland Philosophical honours*, the highest distinc
tion which that University can bestow upon classical learningf.

     Joseph Milner had now left college, and was established as
head master of the Grammar School at Hull, in which town he

was, shortly afterwards, elected afternoon lecturer at the principal
                                                                                                                  was " owing,"
church.   bHroitshesru, cc"espsarintlyobtotaitnhinegsptlheensdeousrituoaftiohniss
says his                                                                                                          character, and

partly to the recommendation of powerful friends at Leeds {."

Being now raised above poverty, his annual income amount-

   * He was third Senior Optime.            dates being in that year unusually
      He was one of the Chancellor's        numerous and able.

Medallists in the year 1766, the candi            See Life the Rev. Joseph Milner,
t

                                 J

                                                                                                              </
CHAP. I. A.D. 1766. jETAT. 16.                                        5

ing, upon the whole, to upwards of 200/., " the bowels of

Joseph yearned upon his younger brother*." He imme
diately resolved to release him from his obligations at Leeds,

and, with that view, requested the Rev. Myles Atkinson, the
minister of St. Paul's Church, in that town, to examine into the

qualifications of Isaac, to become his usher in the Grammar
School at Hull. Upon proceeding to the work-room in which
Isaac Milner then laboured, Mr. Atkinson found him seated at

his loom with Tacitus, and some Greek author lying by his side.

Upon further examination, it appeared that, notwithstanding his

long absence from school, and the interruption of his literary
pursuits, his knowledge and his love of classical learning re
mained unimpaired. After a private interview with Mr. Atkin
son, during which the terms of the apprentice's emancipation
were agreed upon, the master of the establishment entered

"theIsawaco,rkla-dro, otmho,u  and    addressing    young    Milner,  said to him,
                                art  off." The    delight  exhibited  by the youth,

on hearing these words, was declared by Mr. Atkinson to be

quite indescribable.

     Isaac Milner, who, as he himself says, had been well
grounded by Mr. Moore in the Latin and Greek languages!,

now proved himself an able assistant to his brother in teaching
the lower boysj of his crowded school at Hull ; and while he

instructed them, he redoubled his efforts, under, his brother's

tuition, and with his assistance, to improve himself, and to make

up for lost time.
     During this period of his life, Isaac Milner not only made

himself a competent classical scholar, but also found time to

master the elementary parts of mathematics. When, in the ordi

nary business of the school, any difficulty occurred in algebra,

&c, it was customary with his brother Joseph to call up Isaac

to solve it ; for although the point might be one which, with

    * See Life of the Rev. Joseph Milner.         seven years of age, he read so well,
   + Ibid.                                        that it was customary to place him
    X Among whom, at that time, was
William "Wilberforce, afterwards his              upon a table in the school-room, and

own most intimate friend. Of him                  to make him read aloud for the benefit
                                                  of the other boys.
Dr. Milner used to relate, that, at
6 CHAP, h A.IX 1765--1770. /ETAT. 16--20.

sufficient thought, he could, perhaps, have made out for himself,

all trouble was saved by the readiness of Isaac on such subjects.
     In the year 177°, Isaac Milner was sent by his brother

to Queen's College, Cambridge.

Towards that excellent brother, he expresses his grateful affec

tion in a touching passage, in the Life of the Reverend Joseph
Milner, already referred to. In that passage, after declaring,

that, under Providence, he owed his honourable and elevated

situations, as Dean of Carlisle, President of Queen's College,

and Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge,

nay, that he owed " all that he had, to the kindness of this same

brother," he "willingly acknowledges the obligation, with tears

of gratitude and affection;" and concludes with the beautiful

and apposite quotation, " He made Isaac glad with his acts, and

his memorial is blessed for ever*!"

     The affection which bound these brothers to each other, was,

perhaps, as strong as ever subsisted in that relation of life. It

began in childhood ; was cemented in youth, by more than ordi

nary fraternal kindness on the one part, and by cordial gratitude

on the other; and, far from suffering interruption or abatement
in after life, it increased in fervour, till the death of the elder

brot"heNrevseepr,a"ratseadysththeese   tenderly-attached relatives.    bitter  or

                                      survivor, " was separation more

afflicting." An entire agreement in their religious sentiments,

of which agreement the sequel of this narrative will afford

abundant evidence, was, doubtless, effectual in drawing still

closer the bonds of natural affection which united these excel

lent men.

Isaac Milner entered Queen's College as a Sizar. Sizars

are, for the most part, as is generally known, students, who

enjoy certain pecuniary privileges, and who, formerly, were

required, at Cambridge, to perform various menial services,

from which they are now, and have been for many years,

exempted. These services, which consisted in the ringing of the

chapel bell, the serving up of the first dish to the fellows at dinner,
&c, were exacted at Queen's, when Isaac Milner became an

                                      · 1 Maccab. iii. 7.
CHAJ>, J, A.D. 1770--1772. JETA'l'. 20--22.                   7

undergraduate, and were undoubtedly finally abolished by him,

when he became President of the College ; but whether the

following anecdote, frequently told in reference to this subject,

be strictly correct, may, perhaps, be doubted. Isaac Milner,

happening one day, while engaged in the execution of his duties

as a Sizar, to overturn upon the floor of the hall o, tureen of

soup, intended for the fellows' table, is said to have exclaimed,

in reply to some tart rebuke, "When I get into power, I will

Iabolish this nuisance,"     This expression of the unpolished
                             get into power" occasioned, as it is
Yorkshire lad, ff When

said, much merriment among the fellows ; who, of course, did

not detect, under the rough exterior of the Sizar, the future

President of their College.

There is no evidence, that, at this early period of his life,

Isaac Milner had been led to entertain those religious views

which he afterwards adopted, and of which he became so able

and zealous an advocate; but an incident which occurred during

his undergraduatesbip, effectually put to the proof, and firmly

established his character, as a man of inflexible integrity and

conscientious resolution. Many of the then governing members

of Queen's College were supposed to be far from orthodox in

their religious faith 5 and, with their approbation, a petition,

against subscription to the Articles of the Established Church,

was presented for signature to the students. This petition,
supported as it was by his superiors, Isaac Milner alone, among

the students of his own college, refused to sign*.

The brilliant success of Isaac Milner at the University

fully evinced the penetration, and justified the advice, of those

early friends of his parents, who had exhorted them to strain

every nerve in order to give him a literary education. A circum

stance which occurred during the last term of his undergradu

atesbip, tended to prepare his cotemporaries for the honours

which awaited him.

Keeping an Opponency in the Schools t> he made use of an

   * To this refusal, after an interval    t The practice of keeping Acts and
of above forty years, ho alludes, with
                                         Opponencies, has been lately disused
evident satisfaction, in his Strictures  in the University of Cambridge.
on the Writings of Dr. Marsh,
8 CHAP. I. A.D. 1774. JETXT. 24.

argument, subsequently well known at Cambridge, and fre

quently used on similar occasions ; but at that time quite new.

The Moderator was the late Dr. Pearce, afterwards Public

Orator, Master of Jesus College, and Dean of Ely. The argu

ment was new to him, and he thus addressed the opponent:

" Domine opponent, argumentum san& novum et difficile; nec

pudet fateri meipsum nodum solvere nan posse."
     This anecdote was sometimes told by Dr. Milner in after

life. The words of the Moderator were accurately remembered

by him, not only on account of the compliment which they
implied, but also, because Dr. Pearce was celebrated in the

University for the purity and elegance of his Latinity.

Dr. Milner, however, never failed to add, that he had received

from Dr. Pearce, in the evening of the same day, a complete

answer to the novel argument which he had adduced.

Genius, or even superior excellence, is usually accompanied

by much modesty and diffidence. Dr. Milner, when induced,

in later life, to speak of his own degree, invariably said, that he

had been, at the time, very far from sanguine respecting his

success --nay, that he even feared he might have completely

failed. His fears were, indeed, groundless ; since he had, from

the first, fixed his eye upon the highest honours of the Uni

versity, and had spent the time of his undergraduateship in

indefatigable study. He took his degree of B.A. in 1774, and

was the   Soef n"ioIrncWormanpgalrearbiolisf ,"histhyeearM, owdiethrattohres  honourable dis
tinction                                                                       being Thomas

Kipling, M.A., of St. John's, and Thomas Parkinson, M.A., of
Christ's --themselves Senior Wranglers of a few years standing.

At this distance of time, there can be no indelicacy in stating,

that, on occasion of the competition for Smith's Prize, Isaac
Milner had to contend with more than the ordinary difficulties.
The Professor of Mathematics, one of the Examiners for this

prize, was more than suspected of favouring a particular candi

date, a relative of his own. Such conduct must always have

formed a rare exception to the undeviating rectitude usually

observed upon such occasions. Ability and industry seldom,

however, fail of success, be the obstacles what they may ; and

the man who, in the Senate House, had been pronounced
            CHAP. I. A.D. 1774. JETAT. 24.         9

" Incomparabilis," was declared to be first Smith's Prize
man --honours which, it is needless to say, are the very highest

which the University of Cambridge can confer*.
     Having taken his degree of B.A., Mr. Milner was admitted a

member of the " Hyson Club," a society originally formed by

the Wranglers of the year 1758, and composed of the most

eminent men then resident in the University. A brilliant so

ciety, doubtless, in its day, was this Hyson Club, enrolling in

its list of members the names of Waring, Watson, Paley, and
others equally known to fame. Of these distinguished men,

few now remain ; but the memory of the powerful mind, and
extraordinary conversational powers of Mr. Milner, is still pre

served, as having materially contributed to the interest and

hilarity of the meetings of this once brilliant company.
     Another consequence of the splendid success of Mr. Milner,

at the commencement of his University career, was a notifica

tion communicated to him, that the office of tutor to a relative

of the Polish Prince Poniatowski awaited his acceptance. This
offer, however, advantageous as it must have appeared at the

time, he at once declined.

     Great as was Mr. Milner's proficiency in mathematical

studies, they did not, even at this time, occupy the whole of his

attention.

     The following extract from a letter, dated March 27th, 1774,
and, consequently, written within a few weeks after Mr. Milner
became Bachelor of Arts, illustrates the comprehensive turn of
his mind, and shows the estimation in which, at this period of
his fife, he was held by his cotemporaries :

" Dear Milner,            strange        converse   "March 27, 1774.

    " As you are holding                           with Philosophy, I
Ishall propose what have to say to you, under the form of
queries." * * * Here follow a number of metaphysical

questions concerning the nature of the immaterial principle, in

   * In after life, Dr. Milner used      of his heart, he ordered from a

sometimes to observe, that he was on     jeweller a rather splendid seal, bearing
                                         a finely-executed head of Sir Isaac
this occasion tempted to commit his
                                         Newton.
first act of extravagance. In the pride
10 CHAP. I. A.D. 1774. /ETAT. 24.

man, and in the lower animals, such as, f' Can the soul, which

is the eye of the mind, any more than the eye of the body, see

itself, its own nature, and inherent powers ?" " Have not the

brute creatures a living immaterial substance within them ?

And are they incapable of immortality and happiness ? Does

the condition of their nature render them incapable of receiving

any   r?e"com"pQenuside  in another  life, for the sufferings they endure in
this                     meruistis,
                                     oves, placidum pecus, &e," " Can

you clear and justify the ways of God towards them ? Could

you satisfy me in these doubts you would be mihi Magnus

Apollo*."

      While an Undergraduate, Mr. Milnerbecame acquainted with

the late celebrated William Hey, Esq., of Leeds, having occa

sion to consult him for a complaint partly produced by intense

application to study. His superior talents and attainments

were quickly discerned and justly appreciated by Mr. Hey, who

invited him to bis house, and put him, as Dr. Milner afterwards
said, " upon a completely new system of habits." He remained

during several weeks the guest of Mr. Hey ; and the acquaints

ance thus commenced, ripened into a friendship which suffered

neither diminution nor interruption till the friends were sepa

rated by death. During this intimacy of nearly fifty years con

tinuance, many letters were exchanged, some extracts from

which will appear under their proper dates.
    Another gentlemant who became acquainted with Mr. Milner

about this period of his life, and who was himself Senior

Wrangler not long afterwards, speaks of him in the following

terms. " My acquaintance with Dr. Milner commenced on his

return to Cambridge at the close of the year 1775, to my great

advantage, being greatly indebted to him for his valuable assist
Iance in my mathematical studies.
                                        had afterwards opportuni

ties of knowing and admiring the extraordinary strength of his

   · The writer of this curious letter  this communication has not been found
wgs of Queen's College, and took his    among his papers.

degree of B,A. in 1774. lie has been       + The present Archdeacon Older-

dead many years, and the answer to      shaw.
CHAP. I. A.D. 1775. JETAT. 25.  11

understanding, and the great variety and extent of his know

ledge ; and I retain a high veneration for his memory."

    " The mathematical papers which Mr. Milner used to make

out for his pupils were so remarkable, at the time, for their
neatness and elegance, that they were very much in request

whenever they could be had* 5" indeed, so highly prized were
his demonstrations of mathematical propositions, that an in
stance occurred in which a bed-maker of Queen's was bribed

to obtain some of those papers, to be copied by a student of

another college.
      On Sunday, the 17th day of December, in the year 1775,

Isaac Milner entered into holy orders, being ordained a
deacon, at a general ordination held in the Chapel of Trinity
College, Cambridge, by the Lord Bishop of Peterborough.

* This was communicated to me by Dr. Procter, the present Master of
                                  Catherine Hall, Cambridge.
                                                          12

                                        CHAPTER II.

Mr. Milner is elected Fellow of Queen's College.-- Takes his degree of M.A.
--Is elected                            ofPrQieusete.n--'s.P--reMseankteesd
Society. -- Is     Tutor                                                     a   communication   to the Royal
                  ordained                                                   to                  St. Botolph's.
Cambridge. --Makes various communications                                        the 80c1017 of  Society.-- In
                                                                                   to the Royal
jures his health by inhaling a noxious gas. -- Is elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society. -- Is Moderator. -- Reads public Lectures in Chymistry. --
Is Proctor. --Commencement of his acquaintance with William Wilber-
force, Esq. -- Correspondence. --Letter from Joseph Milner to Rev.
Jumes Stillingfleet. -- Isaac Milner is elected to the Jacksonian Professor
ship. -- Gives alternate courses of Lectures in Chymistry and Experimental
Philosophy. --Correspondence. -- Assists in the formation of a Society for
the promotion of Philosophy and General Literature. --Travels on the
Continent with Mr. Wilberforce. --Voyage down the Rhone. --House at
Nice. --Marseilles. --English Society at Nice. --Mr. Milner's religious
principles. -- Religious conversation with Mr. Wilberforce. --Returns with
Mr. Wilberforce to England. --Is Moderator. --Climate of Nice. --Perilous
accident. --Second journey with Mr. Wilberforce to the Continent.-- Reli
gious conversation. --Meeting with Lavater. -- Mystical turn of LavatePs
mind. -- Letter from him to Mr. Milner. -- Rev. Thomas Scott's account
of Mr. Milner's travels with Mr. Wilberforce. --Correspondence. -- Tissot.

                                        A.D. 1777. JETAT. 27.

On the 10th of January, 1776, Mr. Milner was elected a Fellow

of Queen's College. He proceeded, in the year 1 777, to the
degree of Master of Arts, and, during the same year, was

appointed Tutor of his College, in which capacity he acquired

a distinguished reputation.

    In   the spring of this              year he communicated to the                             Royal
          a paper, entitled,                                                                     Alge
Society                                 " Observations on the Limits of

braical Equations; and a General Demonstration of Des Cartes's

Rule for finding their number of Affirmative and Negative

Roots*." This paper, which was presented to the Society by

    * See Transactions of the Itoyal                         " Milner invenit aquationem ax" --
Society for the year 1777. With re
                                                          (a+b) p x-'+(a+2 b) q x" '-(a+3 b)
ference to this subject, the following
                                                          r x""3+ &c.=0, non semper habere ra-
pWasasarginego'sccMuresditiantiotnhees  Preface to   Dr.
                                        Algebraica,  3rd  dicem inter minimam affirmativam et mi-
                                                          nimam negatitam radicem aqtiationis x»
edition, p. 13 :
                                                          -pxM+qx**-rx*»+&c = O posi
                      CHAP. II. A.D. 1778. jETAT. 28.                                                            13

Dr. Shepherd, at that time Plumian Professor at Cambridge,
was read at the meeting of that learned body on the 26th of

February, 1777-
     On Sunday, the 22nd of March, Mr. Milner was admitted to

priest's orders in the Chapel of Trinity College, by the same
bishop who had ordained him a deacon, and who, on this occa
sion, acted for the Bishop of Ely.

      He now, on some few occasions, assisted his friends by
taking their duty in the neighbouring country churches; and, on
the 10th of October, 1778, was presented by his college to the
rectory of the parish of St. Botolph, Cambridge, which prefer
ment, although, in consequence of the infirm state of his health,
seldom able to officiate in person, he retained till the latter end
of the year 1792, relinquishing it on his advancement to the

deanery of Carlisle.
     During this year Mr. Milner again addressed a paper to the

 Royal Society. This paper, which, like the last, was communi

cated by Dr. Shepherd, is entitled, " Reflections on the Com
munication of Motion, by Impact and Gravity." It was read at

 the meeting of the Royal Society, February 26, 1778*.

     In the year 1779, a paper "On the Precession of the Equi

 noxes produced by the Sun's Attraction," was, through the

tam. Sit aquatio (A) Xn -- p xn-,-f qx""'                            negaiiva erit si modo detur mulatto sig-+
-- &c.=0, cujus radices sint a,P,y,d, Sec                            norum de in -- vel -- in + a penultimo
                                                                             :
                                                                     ad ultimum data aquationis terminum,

   "                                                                 tum affirmativam radicem inter et o,
                                                   j9,               negativam vero inter-- et--i poni sin
                                                        /3
quorum a major sit quam                                     quam y,  aliter, tum affirmativam radicem inter      ;6
                                                                     et ft, et negativam inter et--i poni, ubi
&.C tint ir, p, or, &c, radices aquationis                           u sit radix aquationis n x"'1 -- --                  0;
(B)BXM-(a-l)pxM+to.=0, in
                                                                     px°",+&c.=0 inter minimum affirmao p.
ter a etsi             et y, &c. respective posita
tum,        h /9,   et m eadem Kabeant signa, in                     tivam et minimum negativam data aqua-
                                 ;                                   tionis x" -- x" "' + &c = radicem posita,
                  /9                 si                              qua erit negativa vel affirmativa prout
                                                                     detur mutatio signorum rfe + in -- vel -- in
                                               ;8
                                                  h                      a penultimo ad ultimum data aquationis

                                                                  ;  [terminum] necne plura consimilia de
hoc opere probatur radices aquationis                                hoc re in hoc opere continentur."           (n
                                                                                                                      )I
  A+m B=0 inter a et u, et p, &c,                                       · See Transactions of the Royal
h
                                                                     Society for 1778
respective positas esse          vero et ra

di versa habeant signa, tum probatur unam                               p
                                                                                            .
radicem aquationis A+m B=0 tna-                                                                O
jorem esse quam a cateras vero inter v
                      ;
                         h

h

       f},
        p
et et y, kxc. respective poni vero
                                 8                                   +
                                        ;
                                             si
   et m eadem habeant signa, tum duas                                   ;

radices aquationis A+m Bx=0 in
                    i
                              h
ter minimum affirmativam et minimum

negativam-- data aquationis A=0 po

ni, quorum una affirmative, altera vero
14 CHAP. II. A.D. 1779--1780. /ETAT. 29--30.

same Dr. Shepherd, communicated by Mr. Milner to the Royal
Society, and read on the 24th of June*.

     Intent, however, as Mr. Milner's mind seems at this period

to have been, upon mathematical science, he at the same time,
engaged in the pursuit of chymical knowledge with an ardour
which, whatever might be the object of his attention, always

characterized him; and which, when directed to this science,

speedily placed him among the first chyttiists of his day. It

was about this time, that, by incautiously inhaling some noxious
gas, he laid the foundation of a serious pulmonary complaint,
from which he never entirely recovered. During many subse
quent years, he confined himself, by the advice of his physi
cians, to a milk diet ; and although at length, the natural strength

of his constitution so far prevailed over the disease, as to render
needless such strict attention to regimen, the wound in his lungs

was never completely healed.

     On the 15th of June, in the year 1780, Mr. Milner was
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.

     At this 'period of his life, before his originally strong consti
tution had given way under the repeated attacks of illness, to
which, from the time of undergraduateship, he was subject, Mr.
Milner was most actively engaged in the pursuit and furtherance
of learning and science, and in the duties which devolved upon
him, as a clergyman, and a member of the University. As a
clergyman, he was indeed unable to undertake much public duty ;
but he deeply and critically studied both the Scriptures and the
writings of the ancient fathers of the church; thus doubtless laying
the foundation of that sound and extensive theological knowledge,
which is apparent in the productions of his later life.

    In this year he filled the office of Moderator ; an office of

great importance, and demanding, for the due discharge of its

duties, much active exertion f.
     In the year 1781-2, it fell to Mr. Milner's lot to hold the

office of Proctor ; and by his firm, yet good-humoured, discharge

* See Transactions of the Royal \ his Anecdotes of his oati Life, thtis
Speaks:
t "ISociety for 1779.
Of this office, Bishop Watson, in I  look tipon the office of Mo
          CHAP. It. A.D. 1782, jETAT. 32.  15

of his duty, he contrived to escape unpopularity, even under
circumstances the most likely to produce it.

     In 1782 he read public lectures in Chymistry. A Syllabus

of one course of these Lectures, bearing the appropriate motto,
"Non fingendum aut excogitahdum, sed inveniendum quid natura

faciat aut ferat*,1' was published at Cambridge in the year 1 784 .

     It may here be mentioned, that in the midst of his academical
duties and pursuits, Mr. Milner never neglected to show libe

rality and kindness even to the most distant of his poor relatives

and connexions, both at Leeds and at Hull. This, if it were

ever proper to publish such deeds of private beneficence, might
be proved by letters still in existence. Those, however, who

were personally acquainted with the subject of this Memoir,
will have no need of such proof ; and to the public in general,

such details would be uninteresting.

      The precise period of the commencement of the intimate
friendship which Mr. Milner, to the end of his life, maintained
with the late William Wilberforce, Esq., is uncertain. Their
epistolary correspondence seems to have begun soon after Mr.
Wilberforce left college. Of the numerous letters which remain,

the earliest are dated 1781, or 1782; but some of these letters

obviously refer to others of a still earlier date.
     The father of Mr. Wilberforce had materially contributed, by

the exercise of his influence in the town of Hull, to establish

Joseph Milner, as the Master of the Grammar School in that

place ; and the relationship which existed between the family of
Wilberforce, and one with which, by the marriage of his niece,

Mr. Milner was subsequently connected, would tend to cement

yet more firmly, the friendship already established between
William Wilberforce and Isaac Milner.

     In a letter addressed to Mr. Wilberforce, and dated "Queen's
College, March 11, 1782," Mr. Milner after some slight obser-

derator to be the most difficult to exe  exhibit somewhat of that disposition
                                         to self-complacency which was cer
cute, and the most important to the      tainly a distinguishing trait in Dr.
                                         Watson's character, it is not on that
interest of the University, when well
                                         account the less worthy of notice.
executed, of any that there is ; not ex     * Bacon.

Ifcepting the Professorship of Divinity
itself."  this remark be thought to
16 CHAP. II. A.IX 1782. jETAT. 82.

vations upon the " tottering" position of the Prime Minister,

makes some remarks upon the consequently clouded state of his

own prospects in life ; jocularly adding, " A chaplaincy on board

a man of war, from Keppel, is all that I now look for." Some

inquiries propounded with a view to the advantage of his brother
Joseph, respecting a vacant living supposed to be in the gift
of John Thornton, Esq., conclude this communication.

     The following truly excellent letter contains but a very slight
allusion to Isaac Milner ; but it throws so much light upon the
character and religious views of the brother for whom he was
anxious to obtain preferment, that it may properly be admitted

here :

        "To the Reverend James Stillingfleet*.
" Dear Stilo,
               " Hull, October 4th, 1782.
" I thank you for yours, and indeed generally hear from you

with pleasure ; and the more serious and weighty your mood

and feelings about divine things, the more acceptable.  It is

    "The mind that is in Jesus is a rare mind indeed.

remarkable, that though there is scarce a topic of Scripture but
is nibbled at, in these days of infidelity, yet you don't find the
hardiest sceptics middle with the moral character, temper, and

conduct of Jesus Christ. It is a tacit confession of its victori

ous excellence, and there is great truth in an assertion of a

modern publication concerning his moral character, which I saw

quoted the other day, to this effect ; ' that it was not 'possible

such a character could have been feigned. It must have been

real : it proves its Divinity by its own light.'

    " All we want and should aim at (repentance from dead works

Ibeing supposed) is reduced, think, to these two particulars ;

to have ' grace always most thankfully to receive his inestimable

benefit, and also daily to endeavour ourselves to follow the bles
sed steps of his most holy life.' The first is the substratum.

We must be in him ; and quietly and confidently in him, as

our wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. As
we have it not in our nature to do any thing good to procure

* Mr. Stillingfleet was rector of Ilotlmni, and one of the most intimate
             and attached friends of Isaac Milner and his brother Joseph.
CHAP. II. A.D. 1782. JETAT. 32.                                                                     17

the Divine favour, so, thanks be to God, we need not. All is

done to our hand. We have only to receive eternal life, as the

inestimable gift worthy of infinite liberality. It is bad mixing

foundation and building together, as Owen observes. Sanctifica-

Ition is a consequence of grace rather than grace itself. use the

word grace, in its strictest and most Scriptural sense, as the gift

of eternal life in Jesus Christ. The fruits of the Spirit must not

be made use of to get peace to our consciences, that is to say,
relief from the guilt of sin. They should never be conceived to

exist in that relation. If we follow the mind that is in Jesus, it

is an obedience of love, thanksgiving, humility, filial reverence.

It is not an obedience of selfish, proud, constrained, service ; no

more should ours. So that the very endeavour to follow the

blessed steps of his most holy life, is as inimical to a self-righte

ous spirit as possible. How shocking then that we should

pervert it to that end! You will pardon my constant drift

against self-righteousness.  My own experience makes it

necessary for me to abound in such meditations.

    "Well, my dear friend, let us daily begin our Christianity in

this way. Begin with Christ as ours already by his own pre

cious donation, grounding our title purely on the Word. Then

taking [a good heart to ourselves, and not being discouraged at
our imperfections, which in this life we shall always see to be

very, very, very great, unless the Devil deceive us with an

accursed pride indeed, let us be looking, however, constantly at

the beautiful copy which he has set us ; and though we make

                             it,

                                                        a

                                                                                                 !
poor scribbling work of      and many foul blot, yet let us

write on, and try again and again to cut our strokes cleaner and

cleaner. If we go on thus, using in proper place and order,

without jumbling them together, the two parts of the Collect,
we shall do well enough, and sing at last, O be joyful

   "I"Remember me kindly to Mrs. Still.
                                  am always yours affectionately,
                                                    "Joseph Milner.

   " N.B. My brother told me, before he returned to Cambridge,

that he had tried the water, found an earth in but no metal at; it,

all. The slates he has done nothing with here but as he most

probably took them with him, may hear afterwards about them."
                             I

                                       c
IS CHA.P. II. A.D. 1782. jETAT. 32.

     From this characteristic letter, which, it should be observed,

was addressed to one who thoroughly entered into the religious

views of the writer, and by whom therefore his meaning would
not be misunderstood, it appears, that Isaac Milner this year

passed, according to his usual custom, a part of the Cambridge
long vacation with his mother and brother at Hull.

     On these occasions he frequently assisted his brother in the

duties of his school ; in fact, he almost resumed his former cha

racter of usher. A gentleman still living well remembers his

instructing the scholars, particularly in the use of the globes ;

and relates, that " he was a great favourite with the boys -- the
delight of the school -- more especially from his playful, kind
manner, and very clear mode of explaining things." All who, at

any period of his life, knew Dr. Milner, will acknowledge this

account of him to be strikingly characteristic.
     In the following year, in which he was again Moderator, Mr.

Milner was elected to the Professorship of Natural and Experi

mental Philosophy, then recently founded by the Reverend

Richard Jackson, and called, in consequence, the Jacksonian

Professorship.
    He now gave, and continued to give during several years,

alternate courses of Lectures, in Chymistry and Experimental

Philosophy ; sciences for which he retained his love, throughout

the whole of his subsequent life.

the  On the 17th of February, 1783, this short  entry appears in
     published diary of William Wilberforce,
                                                Esq. : " Walked

down morning to House, to get Milner into Gallery."
    The following extract from a letter, dated " Queen's, Feb.

24th," will probably be deemed an interesting comment upon

this apparently unimportant circumstance :

" My dear Sir,

    I" was much obliged to Bankes for his punctuality, and for

introducing me into the gallery, where I stayed till about eleven

o'clock.

    " In point of eloquence, I think Pitt was not so much at

liberty as usual ; which only serves to convince me farther, that

good sense and matter are rather against fluency of expression.
                      CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. JETAT. 34.            19

       I I"On the whole, was so well satisfied with what he said, that

was the less sorry at being obliged to retreat before he answered
Ithe objections ; because really thought that he had fully an
Iticipated the principal of them.
                                              only wish and hope, that the

article concerning what the Irish are to perform on their part,

will not be frittered away, notwithstanding what Fox says about
                                                                 **
the confidence he has in the liberality of that country.

                                        " Yours affectionately,
                                              "Isaac Milner.
       " To William Wilberforce, Esq."

     In the year 1784, Professor Milner assisted several gentlemen
at Cambridge in the formation of a literary club, called, " The

Society for the promotion of Philosophy and General Literature."
     The names of the distinguished men who, on the 18th of

February, 1 784, enrolled themselves members of this society, each
of them engaging to furnish occasionally original papers, of which

a selection should afterwards be printed, will, even at this dis

tance of time, be perused by academical readers with interest.

The individuals hereafter mentioned, most of whom are still

well remembered at Cambridge, composed this learned body :
Dr. Milner, Archdeacon Coxe, Dr. Jowett (Professor of Civil
Law), Mr. Carlyle (Professor of Arabic), Mr. Atkinson, Dr.
Coulthurst, and Professor Farish.

     These gentlemen soon added to their number, Mr. Pearce,
Professor Vince, Sir Busick Harwood, Mr. Relhan, Mr. Jones,
Professor Porson, Mr. Emperius, Professor Martyn, Mr. Popple,
Mr. Brandish, Professor Tennant, Professor Wollaston, and
Mr. Ainslie.

     To this Society, which, for want of adequate support, was
dissolved within two years after its formation, Mr. Milner con
tributed several papers, some of which are printed in the Phi

losophical Transactions*.

     It may be worth while to observe, that this list of members

    *  A   p"apTehre  on " The Tides,"   and  by Dr. Milner, in his private memo-
one                    Moon's Apsides,"  ap-  randa of a much later date, as having
       on                                     been printed. They have not, hov.--
                                              ever, been discovered.
parently written for the Cambridge
                                                                                 c2
Philosophieal Society, are mentioned
20 CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. JETAT. 34.

of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, comprises the names of
most of the academical friends with whom Dr. Milner, in after

life, maintained an intimate connexion. Among these friends

the late Dr. Jowett must be particularly mentioned. In his

company Dr. Milner, from the time of his undergratuateship,

regularly spent two evenings in every week --Sunday and

Thursday. These meetings, which, at first, were held alternately
at their respective rooms, took place in later years, always at
Queen's Lodge, and were continued till Dr. Jowett's death.

    It seemed proper to make some mention, in this place, of

this long and Christian friendship. Further notices of it will

appear hereafter.

     During this part of Mr. Milner's academical career, his va
cations were, almost invariably, spent with his brother, at Hull.
To the frequent intercourse which he was thus enabled to enjoy
with that excellent relative, may, doubtless, under Providence,
be attributed the gradual establishment of those religious
opinions, which, even at this time, he had begun to entertain.

     In the summer of the year 1784, Mr. Wilberforce, then in
the hey-day of youth and spirits, and recently elected member
of parliament for Yorkshire, visited York, for the purpose of
participating in the gaieties of the races. While there, he invited

 a gentleman, with whom he was intimately acquainted, to
become his companion in a continental tour. That gentleman
declined the invitation, which was, by letter, subsequently trans

ferred by Mr. Wilberforce to his friend, Isaac Milner, whom, on
leaving York, he had met at Scarborough, and in whose com
pany he had there spent much time. The solid sense and
great literary attainments of Mr. Milner, would naturally re
 commend him to his friend as an eligible companion in a tour
 on the Continent ; but the idea of that companionship does not
appear to have presented itself, for the first time, to the mind
of Mr. Wilberforce, on occasion of the meeting at Scarborough.
His grandfather, at least, had previously made a declaration in
reference to this subject, in terms which infer a strong suspicion,
that reports, even at that time, had gone forth, respecting the
bias of Isaac Milner's mind towards, what are called, evangelical
sentiments. " Billy," said he, " shall travel with Milner, as soon
CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. JETAT. 34.                                                       21

as he is of age ; but if Billy turns Methodist, he shall not have

a sixpence of mine*."
     Mr. Milner was very desirous to accept the invitation thus

given; but to this step his academical engagements presented

many obstacles. Several letters passed between the friends pre
vious to their departure for the Continent; an extract from
one of which is here submitted to the reader :

" My dear Sir,                          "Hull, September 19, 1784,
                                               "Friday Morn.
I" Upon receiving your first letter, wrote to Carlisle, to my

friend, Mr. Carlyle-f, to get him to read College Lectures for
Ime, in the ensuing winter, as understood, that he intended to
I Ireside in College.
                have not yet received his answer, but
have little doubt of succeeding. I wrote to the Master of
IQueen's*, to obtain his approbation of my absence, and, till
Ihear from him, am not without some suspicion of objection

on his part, arising from his very severe notions of regularity

and form, which notions are both natural to him, and have been

rivetted by age. He is, however, a very worthy man.
I I"In my letter to you,
                mentioned that                                                  was unluckily
Iengaged to be Moderator the next year -- in doing which, assure
Iyou, was far from meaning to refer to any relinquishment of

profit arising from that office, (which is but about 50/. for the

Iyear,) but solely and entirely to the inconvenience to which
Imight put Mr. Johnson of King's Coll. He is a gentleman am

not at all acquainted with. Johnson is to be Proctor next year.

The Proctor always procures the Moderator, and, I apprehend,

there may be considerable difficulty to find and settle with

another person, when there is so little time before the 10th

of October, and when everybody is dispersed throughout the

country.        as the probability is now                                 very  much  against the

    " However,
Iforeign tour, will thank you to give me a single line the mo-

   * Life qf Mr. Wilberforce, by his    in the University of Cambridge.
                                               Dr. Plumptre.
Sons. Vol. I.

        Afterwards Professor of Arabic
"f-
                                                                       $
22 CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. jETAT. 34.

ment you have positively determined, in order that I may write

to Johnson immediately; for though the relinquishment of even

Iconsiderable matters, would, trust, never be of any weight when
I Ican oblige you, and of course, myself, essentially, yet, as re
side in the University, I may as well have the office in question
Inext year, if possible ; especially as don't think its profits will

be found an inconvenience to me, when the bills come in for

elec"triSceayl maopuprarwatiulls,graaivr-eplyumtpelsl,    furnaces, crucibles, &c.               notwith
                                                        you, that the alchymists,

standing their pretences, were always poor."
                   a
                 ^£
                              ^f*
                                              sjc
                                                             s(c
                                                                                            ^f*
Here follows passage referring solely to the family affairs

of Mr. Wilberforce.

The letter concludes thus

" endeavour to natter myself with
aI                       :                              hope that something

                                               a

or other will some time happen, that may afford us more fre

quent and tranquil opportunities of conversation. --At least, as

Tully says, on another occasion, Nunc quidem certe cogitatione
                   I
                                          '
quadam speque delector.
                 "
                     am, dear Sir, very                 much yours,
                                                                                                 Milner.
" To William Wilberforce, Esq."                                " Isaac

The foregoing letter valuable, not only as throwing light
                 is
                              is

                                        it
                                                                                     is
upon Mr. Milner's plans and prospects at the time, but as afford

ing contrast to his later letters to the same friend. It per

fectly friendly in its tone, but does not exhibit either the

warmth of affection, or the sympathy in religious opinion and

feeling, which, as the intimacy between these correspondents

becomes closer,      gradually more and more apparent in the

subsequent letters.

     The obstacles which stood in the way of the continental ex
cursion were, subsequently, removed or overcome. Mr. Milner
accepted his friend's invitation, and the party, consisting of Mr.

Wilberforce, his mother and sister, two or three other ladies,

and Mr. Milner, set forth on their journey towards France, on

the 20th day of October, 1?84, one carriage being occupied by

Mr. Wilberforce and his friend, the other by the ladies.
CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. /UTAT. 34.                      23

     Dr. Milner, like Dr. Johnson, was, perhaps, not gifted with a
very vivid perception of the beauties of natural scenery : yet he
used occasionally, in after life, to speak of the delicious voyage
down the Rhone to Avignon ; and still more frequently of the
exquisitely lovely situation of the house at Nfce, in which the
party established themselves, -- a house close to the Mediterra
nean, and embosomed in a grove of orange trees.

    The life and bustle of Marseilles,--a city upon whose quays
men of all nations and languages meet together, -- had, also, for

cibly struck him ; and a picture which he had there seen, by

Iwhom painted know not, representing a scene during the

plague with which the city was visited, in the year 1 720, and the

exertions of " Marseilles' good Bishop," during that dreadful

calamity, had left a deep impression upon his imagination.

     At Nice, the party entered freely into the English society
which the place afforded, and which was composed, for the most
part, of persons of high rank. Among other distinguished indi
viduals, the Duke of Gloucester was there, with his children,

Prince William*, and the Princess Sophia ; who, like all other
young persons who knew him, were attracted by Mr. Milner's
child-loving disposition ; while he, on his part, in the simplicity
of his character, was accustomed to caress them, or to amuse

them with his sprightly talk, with as much freedom as he would

have used towards any other children.

     The account given by Mr. Wilberforce-f of this memorable
visit to Nice -- memorable surely, on account of the important
change which, under Providence, it was the means of effecting
in the religious sentiments of that excellent and celebrated man,
throws considerable light upon the character of Isaac Milner.
Affectation of every kind, and most especially, religious affecta
tion he abhorred ; and it might be, that this hatred, in conjunc
tion with his naturally vivacious and cheerful temperament, oc

 casionally, or even frequently, induced him, at this early period

of his life, to participate in diversions, and to accommodate him
 self to practices, which his judgment might not entirely approve;

* Afterwards Chancellor of the TJni-  + Life of Mr. Wilbcrforce, by his
                                      Sons. Vol. I.
versity of Cambridge.
24 CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. JET AT. 34.

and he therefore, probably, " appeared" to most persons, " in
all respects like an ordinary man of the world." It is, however,

certain, that the religious principles which actuated him to the

end of his life, had, even at this time, taken deep root in his
mind ; and this fact Mr. Wilberforce had discovered before they

became fellow-travellers, although happily for himself and the
world, not till after the invitation had been given and accepted.

At a public table at Scarborough, the conversation had turned
                                                                        I," says Mr.
uWpiolbnertfhoercceh,ar"acstpeorkeofoaf  particular clergyman  ; "and
                                         him as a good man,    but one  who carried

things too far. ' Not a bit too far,' said Milner ; and to this

opinion he adhered, when we renewed the conversation, in the

evening, on the sands. This declaration greatly surprised me ;

and it was agreed, that, at some future time, we should talk the

matter over. Had I known, at first, what his opinions were, it

would have decided me against making him the offer. So true

; it,is that a gracious Hand leads us in ways that we know not,
                it
and blesses us, not only without, but even against, our plans and

inclinations."

Another circumstance, mentioned by Mr. Wilberforce, as

having occurred just before the journey to Nice, distinctly shows
the nature of the religious views which Mr. Milner at this time

entertained. Mr. Wilberforce accidentally met with volume
of the works of Doddridge--his Rise and Progress of Religion   it,
in the Saul-- and, casting over                                   is

                                                                          a

                                                                                                    ;
                                             a cursory glance, asked his
                                         a

                                               it
                                                   it
friend Milner, what sort of book was. " It one of the

best books ever written,'' was the answer which he received

" let us take with us, and read on our journey." They did
                                         it

so and the discussions which arose respecting                  were produc

tive, so far as Mr. Wilberforce was concerned, of the happiest

consequences.

    This was not the only journey in which Mr. Milner was the
sole companion of Mr. Wilberforce. The latter gentleman

being recalled to England by the duties of his station as a

Member of Parliament, and the former holding, for the third

time, the office of Moderator in the University, they returned

home together the ladies of the party remaining at Nice. This
                ;

return to England took place late in January, 1785, over roads
        CHAP. II. A.D. 1784. jUTAT. 34.  25

buried in snow. Of the sudden transition from the compara

tive summer which they had left at Nice, to very severe cold.
Dr. Milner frequently spoke in after life ; explaining the causes

which render the climate of Nice much milder than could

be expected from the mere consideration of its latitude; and

consequently, highly favourable, at certain periods of the year,
to persons affected with, or threatened by, diseases of the

lungs.

     During this journey, the travellers were once, in danger of
instant destruction; the weight of their carriage having over
powered the horses, when on the very brink of a precipice.

The danger was, however, averted by the timely exertions of
Mr. Milner, who being possessed of great personal strength,

arrested the descent of the carriage in the moment of peril.
     On this occasion, Mr. Milner was, probably, not accountable

for the great weight of his friend's carriage : but it was one of
the little peculiarities by which Doctor Milner was afterwards

distinguished, that, travel where he might, his carriage was

always of an extraordinary weight. This was in a great measure
occasioned by his invariably carrying about with him an assort

ment which, to most persons, appeared uselessly large, of imple
ments of a heavy kind -- such as scissars of various sizes, pincers,
files, penknives, razors, and even hammers. The boxes adapted
to different parts of his carriage -- and they were very numerous

-- were laden with such things ; and many a good-humoured jest

did he bestow upon the masters of the different inns at which,

during his frequent journeys, he was accustomed to rest, by way
of reconciling them to the extra weight thus occasioned.

    On the 7th of July in the same year, Mr. Wilberforce and
Mr. Milner set out together on their return to the Continent,

and proceeded to Genoa, whither, in the mean time, the ladies

of their party had removed. They travelled alone, as before ;

and their conversation again turned, with increased seriousness,

upon religious topics. They read together the Greek Testament
-- Mr. Milner sedulously explaining to his friend, his views of the

doctrines therein laid down; "until,"    says Mr. Wilberforce,
                                          *****
" by degrees I imbibed his sentiments."
* * * " Milner, though full of levity on all other subjects,
2(J CHAP. II. A.D. 1785. jETAT. 35.

never spoke on this, but with the utmost seriousness ; and all

he said tended to increase my attention to religion*."

     During a tour in Switzerland, the friends met, at Zurich, the
celebrated Lavater-- a man who made a very favourable impres
sion upon Mr. Milner's mind. Superstitious and mystical he

was, no doubt --as a story, told to the travellers by himself, and
related at length in the Life of Mr. Wilberforce, abundantly

proves.                                                 was frequently

     Of this story, the following slight outline
given by Dr. Milner :

Being urgently pressed by a friend in distress to lend him a

certain sum of money, Lavater at length, very reluctantly, con

sented to advance it from the funds of some charity of which
he was treasurer. This done, he felt, as was natural, extremely

dissatisfied with the course he had adopted ; and, on finding that

his friend, contrary to his (Lavater's) confident expectations,
could not repay him, he prayed earnestly, that some mode might

present itself, by which he might be saved from casting disgrace

upon his religious profession, by apparent dishonesty. Having

arisen from his knees, he began, with nervous anxiety, to search

every closet and drawer which his dwelling contained, and while

thus occupied, found, to his great amazement, a small paper

parcel containing the precise sum of which he stood in need !

This occurrence he regarded as a special answer to his prayer.
     Mr. Milner subsequently endeavoured, by letter, to reclaim

Lavater, whose simplicity and warmth of heart had greatly won

upon his affections, from his mystical opinions; but, --if we

may judge from the following reply of the Swiss physiognomist,
which, however, discovers much real and simple piety, -- without

much success.

          Letter from Lavater to Mr. Milner.
  " J'ai recu, cher Millnerf, votre lettre--et je repond imme-
diatement, selon ma facon, mon temps, et les circonstances, --

tres court.

* Life of Mr. Wilberforce.  any change of orthography,  accent,

+ Tliii letter is transcribed without punctuation, Ac.
               CHAP. H. A.D. 1785. JETAT. 3ô.                    27

   "l. Toute la Bible, d'un bout à l'autre, recommende la

prière positife, et promet -- exauditiones. On ne pas croit la
Bible, si on ne croit pas cela.

   " 2. Tous les hommes sont enfans de Dieu -- ont les mêmes

devoirs, et les mêmes droits. Unus Dominus omnium, satis

dives, et sufficiens omnibus.

    "3. Les Apôtres ne reconnoissent pas aucun autre Saint

Esprit que celui qu'ils avoient eux-mêmes. Ils promettent

celui à tous les enfans d'Abraham, dans les tems les plus

éloignés.

     "4. Tout ce que Dieu opère, est surnaturel pour nous, naturel

pour lui.
     "5. L'image de Dieu, règne comme lui, sur toutes choses.

Tout est à vous, dit St. Paul. Nous sommes de sa race. Il

peut tout, par l'homme qui croit.

"6. Cherchez, trouvez, s'il est possible, un seul passage,

où il est dit, 'Les promesses faites aux Apôtres et premiers

Chrétiens, ne regardent qu'eux. Nous, ne sommes nous pas

baptizes sur le même Nom ? Nous, ne célébrons nous pas la

même Sainte Cène ? Unus Dominus, Una Fides.
"
    7«  Lisez  simplement -- comme  si vous lisiez  la première  fois
l'Evangile -- Vous verrez -- et n'oubliez pas ce que je vous ai

raconté.       " La Grace soit avec vous,

                                  "J. Gaspar Lavater."

     The permanent effect which, under Providence, was pro
duced upon the mind of Mr. Wilberforce during these journeys,
renders them so important, that it may be allowable here to

quote the account given of them by the late Rev. Thomas Scott!

   "In the latter part  of the year  1784, and again   in 1785,"
                        Wilberforce  travelled on the  Continent
says Mr. Scott, " Mr.

with a party of friends. The late Dean of Carlisle, Dr. Isaac

Milner, was his companion in the same carriage; and on these

occasions these highly-gifted friends discussed together various

interesting topics. Religion was of the number ; and Mr. Wil

berforce having, on one occasion, expressed respect for a pious
28 CHAP. II. A D. 1785. jETAT. 35.

clergyman, but having added that 'he carried things too far,'
his friend pressed him on this point. 'What did he mean,'
asked Milner, ' by carrying things too far, or being too strict ?
On what ground did he pronounce this to be the case ? When
we talked of too far, some standard must necessarily be re
ferred to. Was the standard of Scripture exceeded ? or could

any other standard be satisfactorily adopted and maintained ?

Perhaps it would not easily be shown that, where things were
carried, as it was alleged, too far, they were carried beyond
the rules of Scripture, although they might be carried beyond

what was usually practised and approved among men.'

    " Mr. Wilberforce, when thus pressed by his friend, endea

voured to explain and defend his position, as well as he could ;
but he was dissatisfied with what he had to offer : in short, he

felt that his own notions upon the subject, were vague and un

tenable. A lodgment was thus made in his conscience : matter

for serious thinking was suggested, and his thoughts could find
no rest till they found it from the Word of God, and the adop
tion of a Scriptural standard, by which to form all his judgments,

and regulate all his conduct."
     From this period Mr. Milner maintained a frequent corres

pondence with this excellent friend upon religious topics ; and
was thus, under Providence, instrumental in confirming him in
those views of the great doctrines of Christianity, to which Mr.
Wilberforce adhered to the end of his life, and of which he

became so useful and so distinguished an advocate.

     Soon after his return from abroad, Mr. Milner was attacked
by a disease of the lungs, which threatened to disable him from
delivering his usual course of lectures, as Jacksonian Professor.
With reference to this subject, he thus, with much warmth of
affection, writes to Mr. Wilberforce :

»****!" I am particularly unhappy, that your desire of a letter from
me should have arrived to-day.      am very
sorry that I said so much about myself, because I know it will

dwell on your mind, and, if you are like me, the more so, because

we are absent from each other. Things are magnified by dis
Itance.  almost wish I had never opened on the subject of my
                       CHAP. II. A.D. 1785. jETAT. 36.       29

Ifeelings. -- In our first journey, had many ahead-ache, and what

is worse, heart-ache, in silence; but we closed so by degrees, that
                                                            **
there appeared a sort of unfriendliness in concealment.
If II had written to you yesterday, should have given a better
Iaccount. -- am very sorry. -- I know this will hurt you.

"The misfortune
is
        a

                  iIf is is,
                           I

                                                                                                 ;

                                                     I
                             this business of mine must either go on,
or stop entirely. There no sort of provision. --My professor

ship absolutely void         do not go through the course. Don't
let this account bring you here. -- should be more hurt and

have not    moment to spare.           friend."
           bless you, my dear
    " God

     The remainder of this very affectionate letter has reference;
to the continued illness of lady who had been one of the con
                     is
tinental party and chiefly interesting as affording an instancea
of the extreme clearness and perspicuity which constantly
                       I if            aa
characterized the conceptions and statements of Mr. Milner,
whatever might be the subject which happened to engage
his attention. After suggesting list of questions respecting
the case in question, as apposite and as distinctly put as they
could have been proposed by physician, Mr. Milner thus

proceeds
I
            :

               a
" have great regard for                    i     and am concerned
                                                 a,
at the inclosed account. Certainly there can be no harm inis
                             dare say he will remember the case -- pro
writing to Tissot.

bably he keeps a register of cases.    I         have very good opinion

of him but have no idea, that as good advice not to be had
         ;

              I

in England. Probably her case will prove obstinate, which
                                                            I.
stronger reason for beginning with English advice.
                                                                  is
                                              "Ever your               a
                                                            M."

Mr. Milner, during his residence abroad, had himself con

sulted Tissot who, from the elaborate opinion which he wrote,
         ;"

                    ;
seems to have paid very great attention to his case. He attri
butes much of Mr. Milner's ill-health to " un travail soutenu de
           and expresses his hope, that by means of " l'exercise
la tile
30 CHAP. IL A.D. 1785. JETAT. 35.

en plein air, les eaux de Spa, ensuite les eaux de Pyrmont, et les

bains froids,'' his patient " peut venir à jouir de la plus parfaite

santé."

    He concludes thus: "Je ne conseille aucun remède pharma-

tique.

        "7 Out*, 1785.                           Tissot."

        Thus spelled in the manuscript opinion.
31

                        CHAPTER III.

Mr. Milner takes his degree of B.D.--Professor Smyth's Recollections of his

       Divinity Act. -- Bishop Watson's account of the same Act. --Recollections
       of Mr. Milner as a Lecturer. -- Dr. Maskelyne. --Correspondence. --Mr.
         Milner, as Jocksonian Professor, endeavours to obtain from the Crown,
        an annual stipend in support of the Science of Chymistry. --Bishop of
        Llandaff. --Mr. Milner's mode of life as a Lecturer. --Accident and illness.
        -- Visits his brother at Hull. -- Board of Longitude. --Attempt to alter its
        Constitution. --Energy of Mr. Milner. --Visit to London. --Chymical
        Pursuits. --Letter from Dr. Priestley. -- Visit to Rayrigg, in Westmore
        land.--Mode of life there. -- Conversational powers. -- Visit to Hull.

                               A.D. 1786. jETAT 36.

Mr. Milner took his degree of Bachelor of Divinity in the

 summer of the year 1 786 ; which year was distinguished in his
 academical career, by the splendid Divinity Act which he kept
 against the late Dr. Coulthurst*. Of this Act, which was
 rendered memorable by the superior powers of both the dis

 Iputants, have been favoured by an eye and ear witnessf, with

 the following recollections :

      " Dr. Milner was always considered as one of the first men

 Iof talents in the place, during all the time have known the
 University, and his Act, I remember when I was an Under

  graduate, excited the greatest interest.

    "Dr. Coulthurst, on account of his talents also, was selected

  to be his opponent.

      " The subject was ' Paulus Apostolus, de fide et operibus dis-

  serens nec sibi, nec aliis apostolis, nec rectse rationi contradicit/

      " So that the disputation turned on the nature of Faith and

 Works ; and I remember very well the Bishop of Landafff say

 ing, ' Non necesse est descendere in arenam, Arcades enim
 am bo estis,' --which we all thought a well-turned and well-
  merited compliment paid to such distinguished men."

    * Dr. Coulthurst was second      of Cambridge.           Professor  of
Wrangler in the year 1775.              X Dr. Watson, then

  f William Smyth, Esq., Professor   Divinity at Cambridge,

of Modern History in the University
32 CHAP. III. A.D. 1786. JETAT. 36.

Bishop Watson gives a strong incidental testimony to the

surpassing excellence of this Act, in his Anecdotes of his own
Life. After speaking of the usefulness and importance of scho

lastic disputations, he proceeds thus: "An evil custom has,

within these last few years, been introduced into the University:

I* * * it is the custom of dining late. When was ad

mitted, and for many years after, every college dined at twelve

o'clock, and the students after dinner flocked to the philoso

phical disputations, which began at two. If the schools, either

of philosophy or divinity, shall ever be generally destitute of an

audience, there will be an end of all scholastic exertion. I re

member having seen the Divinity Schools (when the best Act, by

Coulthurst and Milner-- Arcades arnbo -- was keeping, that I ever

presided at, and which might justly be called a real academic

entertainment) filled with auditors from the top to the bottom ;
but as soon as the clock struck three, a number of masters of

arts, belonging to colleges which dined at three, slunk away

from this intellectual feast; and they were followed, as might

have been expected, by many under-graduates, -- I say as might

have been expected ; for in all seminaries of education, relaxa

tion of discipline begins with the seniors of the society."
     Whatever may be thought of the correctness of Dr. Wat

son's opinions concerning the utility of disputations in the

schools, his testimony thus incidentally given to the excellence

of the Act of Coulthurst and Milner, is unquestionably valuable.

During this year, and the six following years, Mr. Milner

continued to read alternate courses of philosophical and che

mical lectures. With            reference to these  lectures, Professor
                           :--  always considered   as a very capital
Smy"thDrt.husMsilpneearks
                           was

lecturer. The chemical lectures were always well attended;

and what with him, and what with his German assistant, Hoff

man, the audience was always in a high state of interest and

entertainment."

     The greater part of the long vacation of this year was passed
by Mr. Milner, as usual, at the house of his brother, at Hull.

     Among the friends with whom, at this period of his life,

he maintained a frequent epistolary intercourse, was the late
CHAP. III. A.D. 1787. jETAT. 37.                                                         33

Dr. Maskelyne, the Astronomer Royal. Letters treating almost

exclusively of astronomical topics contain, of course, but little

of general interest;  yedtataedbr"ieGf rpeoesntwscicrihp,t  to one from Dr. Maske
lyne to Mr. Milner,
admitted. " I have given," writes Dr.                       NMoavs.ke1,ly1n7e8, 6,""   may be
                                                                                      a paper,

now printed, to the Royal Society, about the return in the

autumn of the year 1788, with great southern declination, of the

Comet of 1532 and 1661." * * * * " I take this opportunity
Ito mention, that as read your valuable paper on the ' Preces
Ision of the Equinoxes' with much pleasure, so am satisfied of

the truth of your theory, having proved it from my own separate

investigation. What then are we to think of D'Alembert's labo

rious book and methods which lead to a contrary conclusion?"

    In the beginning of the   year 1787, Mr.                Milner, as Jackso-
                              in consideration
nian Professor, was anxious,                                 of " the very con

siderable onus imposed by the founder, and the expensive nature
of the lecture," to obtain from the Crown an annual stipend, in

addition to that already enjoyed under Dr. Jackson's will, in
support of the science of Chymistry. Dr. Watson, Bishop of
Llandaff, and Mr. Milner's own chymical tutor, appeared a
likely person to further his views; and, in company with Mr.
Wilberforce, he waited upon the bishop, by appointment, at his
house in London, to discuss the subject. This visit was paid at
about ten o'clock in the evening; and, on their way, the friends

had jestingly speculated upon the probable nature of the occu
pation in which they might find his Lordship engaged. They

were admitted, and found the prelate reading St. Augustine.
Those who believe that Bishop Watson was a thorough actor,
will, perhaps, suspect that the ponderous folio was a part of the
preparation made for the expected visitors; and his Lordship's

remark at their entrance, " There are not many of the Bench

whom you would find thus engaged at this hour of the night,"

might seem to favour such a suspicion. Be this as it may, the

bishop appeared friendly to the plan submitted to his consider

ation, and Mr. Milner, subsequently, made his application to
the King.

    A peculiar consistency, certainly, pervaded the character of

the subject of this Memoir. In youth and in age he was the

                                                                                      D
S4 CHAP. III. A.D. 1787. jETAT. 37.

same man. Of this consistency of character the memorial which,
on this occasion, he addressed to the Crown, affords an instance.
The same mixture of caution, prudence, firmness, and independ
ence, which characterizes this document, is apparent in the
whole course of Mr. Milner's conduct; and this both before and
after his mind was brought under the steady influence of reli
gious principle. The records of his later life will confirm the
truth of this observation.

     Without entering into a more particular account of the me
morial in question, it may suffice to say, that it answered, at
least to a considerable extent, the purpose of its author.

    The following letter contains an account of Mr. Milner's mode
of life as a lecturer; its object being to induce the friend to whom
it was addressed to postpone an intended visit to Cambridge.

" My dear Sir,       touches              " Queen's, Thursday,
    " Your kindness                               March llth, 1787.

                              me most sensibly ; but the more I

am convinced of that kindness which induces you to take this

journey on my account, the more it becomes my duty to open

myself fully to you.

    "Then at once --in these circumstances, I think you had

better not come.

   " In college I lecture from eight to ten in the morning--
Ifrom that time till four in the afternoon,
                                             am absolutely so
Iengaged that can scarcely steal half an hour from preparing
Imy lectures, to dine. At half-past five, get my coffee, go to

chapel, and then lie down for an hour. -- I then rise, take my
milk -- look out various articles, and make notes of natural his

tory, &c, for the succeeding day. This coming every day, keeps

me on such a continued stretch, that I am often very much done

up with fatigue; and if Mr. Metcalfe, of Christ's Coll., did not
            I should not be able
assist me,                        to get through.  be induced  to
            were you to come,
    " Now                         I know I should

steal some hours, the want of which would be felt, and I should

be ten times more hurried and fretted. As this is strictly and

literally the case, you will think I draw the proper conclusion in

advising you to desist, at present, from your most kind views,
                   CHAP. IIL A.D. 1787. jETAT. 87.         35

the execution of which would certainly distress me.-- But I will

no more     on that at present.
           next Tuesday or Wednesday
" About
Isay                                                       shall have
                                       se'night,

finished the laborious and pressing part of these lectures; and

Ithen shall only have about ten or eleven lectures more to

make up the number, and those ten or eleven require no prepa*
*******aI Iration or time, beyond the single hour.
                                                hope shall be able
to get through, as I have now just turned the middle page of

the difficulties.                                   bad accident

happened to me last Saturday.          I was standing on a very

high table in the lecture room, and stepping from the table to a

Ichair, the bottom of the chair flew up, and fell with my whole

weight, on my right side, breast, and ribs, on the edge of the
chair -- a mercy I was not killed. The pain I suffer is incredible,
Iupon breathing, &c, and at nights.    Iwish had acquiesced in

bleeding at first, as I was advised; but, if possible, I. wish not to
protract my lectures a day. The very first leisure I have, I shall

say many things to you.
                  " Your affectionate
" To                                   friend,  &c,
           Wilberforce, Esq."                     " Isaac
      Wm.                                                  Milner.

     The long vacation of this year, like that of the last, was
passed by Mr. Milner with his mother and brother at Hull.
His health was, at this time very precarious: a spitting of blood,
apparently produced by the accident mentioned in the foregoing

letter, still threatened consequences of the most serious nature;
and an intermitting pulse, -- a symptom which never afterwards
forsook him, and which occasioned great apprehension in the
minds of his physicians, Drs. Baillie and Pitcairne, one of whom,

on a subsequent occasion, declared, that " with such a pulse a
man's life was not worth one minute's purchase," -- seems now
first to have alarmed Mr. Milner and his friends. Under these
circumstances, he had recourse, as was his wont, to Mr. Hey, of

Leeds; to whose judicious advice, at this critical juncture, the
prolongation of his life may, perhaps, under Providence, be

mainly attributed.

     Mr. Isaac Milner was at this time, and continued till his

death, a Member of the Board of Longitude ; a body composed

                                                                                          d2
86 CHAP. III. A.D. 1787. jETAT. 37.

of the most scientific men of the period. This Board, as its

name in some measure imports, met for the purpose of taking

into consideration, and reporting to the Government, any

discoveries calculated to facilitate navigation under dangerous

circumstances; and, in particular, any inventions, which, hy

tending to the perfect and constant accuracy of chronometers,

might, in the absence of other means, assist navigators to

determine their exact position at sea.

     Since it is unnecessary to dilate upon the affairs of a Board,
which is now dissolved, it may be sufficient to say, that at this
time, as well as at a later period of Mr. Milner's life, an

attempt was made to induce the Government to alter the

constitution of the Board of Longitude in a manner which to

him, and to other learned members of that body, especially to

the Astronomical Professors of the University of Cambridge,

appeared calculated to cast a stigma upon their reputation.

Under these circumstances, Mr. Milner exhibited the energy

with which he invariably engaged in whatever he undertook;

and his efforts were proportionately successful.

As illustrative of the vigour, which was a distinguished trait

in his character, it may be mentioned, that the influence which,

on more than one subsequent occasion, he brought to bear upon

the House of Commons, when measures, which he judged to be
inimical to the interests of science, or to the rights of the Uni

versity, or of the College which he governed, were in preparation,

astonished even some of those intimate friends who thought that

they knew him thoroughly.

    In the winter of this year Mr. Milner was again alarmed by
symptoms threatening serious pulmonary disease. His friend

Mr. Wilberforce, who was at Bath, urged him, with much

earnestness to join him at that place. To this arrangement,

however, his duties as Tutor of a College   o"ffmeroetdheinr suapnedrabbrloethdeifrf,i"

culties ; and had it been   otherwise, his  their comfort depend so
as he wrote to the same
                           friend, made "
much upon" his " being with them" whenever an opportunity

presented itself, that he had little leisure to bestow upon other
friends, however valued. A dangerous illness of Mr. Wilber

force in the ensuing spring did, however, induce Mr. Milner,
         CHAP. III. A.D. 1787- JET XT. 37.           37

ever under the influence of the warmest and most affectionate
feelings, to pay him an unexpected visit, of which visit Mr.
Wilberforce thus writes in his Diary: "March 1st. Milner
came by breakfast time, having put off his Lectures, &c. out of

Isolicitude to see how was going on*."

     In the intervals during which he had enjoyed moderate
health, Mr. Milner had, for several years past, sedulously
applied himself to the study of chymistry. His attention had
been turned in particular, to the production of nitrous acid

and nitrous air ; and upon this subject he had, at various times,

made several novel and highly interesting experiments.

    It is known to most persons conversant with similar inqui

ries, that the attention of the celebrated Dr. Priestley was, about

this period, fixed upon the same subject.

     To Dr. Priestley, Milner communicated an account of some
of his experiments with their results ; and from him received
in consequence the following letter :--

         "To the Reverend Isaac Milner.

"Dear Sir,        yet  repeated     " Birmingham, June IMh, 1788.
    " I have not                 your very interesting experiments ;
but I cannot have any doubt of their succeeding, and wish you
Iwould prosecute them yourself, as am not fond of putting my
Isickle into another man's harvest.     Ishall, however, as have

your leave, mention the facts to my friends ; as they cannot but

Ido you great honour. shall be happy to hear of your progress,

and am,                        "
                          Your
                       "          Dear  Sir,         s"erJv.anPtr, iestley.
                                  very  humble

" P.S. -- I direct to Mr. Kirwan, only in Dublin."

    " Mr. Kirwan" was an Irish chymist of note. He was the
second president of the Royal Irish Academy, --being successor
to the Earl of Charlemont, of Volunteer celebrity, the founder of
that institution. Mr. Kirwan published several papers in the

                       * See Life of Wilberforce. '
38 CHAP. HI. A.D. 1788. jETAT. 38.

Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. A letter from him
to Mr. Milner, upon the formation of nitrous acid, will be

found under its proper date*.

    In the course of this month of June, Mr. Wilberforce, having

settled himself in the house which he had, for some summers
past, rented at Rayrigg, in Westmorland, was visited by Mr.
Milner, whom the long vacation released, at that season, from

his academical duties.

     The house at Rayrigg was filled throughout the summer,
with a continual, but ever-changing succession of guests ; and it

will be easily believed, that, in such circumstances, the social

temperament, comprehensive knowledge, and extraordinary con

versational powers of Isaac Milner, were fully appreciated : had

he, like Johnson, been  provided with a Boswell,   a specimen of
                        almost unequalled, might  have been pre
" Table-talk," perhaps

sented to the public.
     Mr. Pitt, who had intended to visit Rayrigg, in an excursion

to Scotland planned during the preceding summer, was pre

vented by the pressure of public business from executing his

purpose; but there was no lack of brilliant company. "The

Duchess of Gordon and Lady Charlotte," says Mr. Wilber

force in his Diary, July 3rd, "by tapping at our low window,
****"announced that they had discovered our retreat, and would take
no denial."                   Milner and I went and supped
with them at Low Wood." " Saturday the 5th. Lord Camden
comes to dinner." " 7th. Balgonies came." " 10. Muncaster
came." " 1 1th. Milner off." In the midst, however, of this

gaiety, "a perpetual round of dissipation," as Mr. Wilberforce

calls some serious conversation took place between him and

his friend. " Milner and I," says he, " had much talk about
it,
         a                    place for me,
this being     most improper                 and resolved    upon   not
continuing   in the house."   " Improper,"        must have   been  for
                                             it

one who had "this summer looked for much solitude and quiet;

the banks of the Thames being scarcely more public, than those

of Windermere and, in compliance with his friend's advice,;"

Mr. Wilberforce gave up this favourite residence.

                        * See chap. viii.
CHAP. HI. A.D. 1788. JET AT. 38.  39

     On finally quitting Rayrigg, in the month of October follow
ing, Mr. Wilberforce paid a short visit to Hull ; and there again
met Mr. Milner, who had exchanged the gaieties of the West
moreland villa, for the sober duties or occupations of solacing
his aged mother or occasionally assisting his brother in the

business of his school.

     With reference to this meeting, Mr. W. thus writes in his
Diary. * * * * " Milner's excellent advice at Hull, in
addition to his lecture at Rayrigg, de levitate -- 'Nihil enim per
se amplum est, nisi in quo judicii ratio extat,' --of being a man
of business, &c. May God enable me to profit from his hint,
and make me properly grateful to him for this true proof of

friendship/'
     By receiving in this spirit these honest animadversions, Mr.

Wilberforce surely gave proof that the constant affection of his

friend was worthily bestowed.
                                                                  "JO

                            CHAPTER IV.

Mr. Milner is elected President of Queen's College. --Improvements in the
      internal management of the College. -- Letters. -- Feelings on being elected
      President --Popular Philosophical Writers. -- Ferguson. --Martin. --Mac-
      laurin. -- View of Public Affairs on the Illness of the King. -- Letter from
      Joseph Milner to the Rev. James Stillingfleet. --Illness. -- Letter from
      Joseph Milner on his Brother's Illness. --Correspondence. --Communica
      tion to the Royal Society. --Formally excused, on account of ill health,
      from delivery of Jacksonian Lectures. --Letters from Drs. Hunter and
      Fothergill. --Lectures continued with assistance. -- Fondness for Practical
      Mechanics. --Extracts from Correspondence with the Rev. T. Ludlam. --
       Sentiments concerning Card-playing. -- Private Religious Diary.

                                A.D. 1788. jETAT. 38.

By the death of the Rev. Dr. Plumptre, in the year 1788, the
office of President of Queen's College became vacant, and to
this honourable situation Mr. Milner was elected.

     After the lapse of more than half a century, there can be no
impropriety or indelicacy in stating, that, previous to the elec
tion of Mr. Milner to the mastership, Queen's College had
greatly decreased in reputation. From that time, however, the
college, once distinguished by the residence of Erasmus, steadily
and rapidly advanced in character and importance. The number
of students increased ; and, as it was the paramount desire of
the president, that the college which he governed should yield
to none in the means of instruction which it afforded, he intro

duced --from other colleges, when necessary --men fitted by their

abilities and acquirements for the important and responsible
station of tutor ; and such men invariably found in him a con
stant friend and patron. In the internal management of the
college many abuses, sanctioned by long prescription, were re
formed ; and if some part of the obloquy which is too often the
lot of those who originate important improvements fell upon
Mr. Milner, he had sufficient fortitude to brave opposition, and
to persevere in the course which he believed to be the path of
duty.

    "As president of a college," says the author of a slight
                          CHAP. IV. A.D. 1788. jETAT. 38.             41

"bihoigsracpohnisctaalnt  sketch of     the life and   character of    Dr. Milner,
                           aim was     to encourage   learned men
                                                                      that belonged

to his own Foundation, as well as to introduce improvements

which might tend to the happiness of the students, and to the

advancement of the University at large."

This statement, the truth of which is undeniable, comprises

all that needs, in this place, to be said of Mr. Milner as head of

a college. Further notices of his conduct in that capacity will

appear in the course of this Memoir.

    At this period, that portion of Mr. Milner's career which

may, perhaps, be more especially called his public life, may

be considered to begin; and although harassed by continual

attacks of ill-health, and, consequently, often almost incapaci

tated for duties which he, nevertheless, deemed himself called

upon to perform, the remainder of his life was spent in a course

of persevering exertion for the advancement of religion and

learning, not often surpassed even by persons enjoying uninter

rupted health and strength.

    It is, however, unnecessary here to anticipate that, of which
the sequel of this work will afford satisfactory proof. In the

mean time his own letters may best carry forward his history.
"I Iof
      would               not,"   h"e   writes to Mr.   Wilberforce,    on the 16th
November,                 1 788,       lead the life   have passed    these last ten

days, for all below the moon. Ceremony without end. I have
Ibeen very much ad cap every day--and must continue so.
foresee plenty of new expenses, I promise you, which did not
Ioccur before; but old Jackson* will stand in the gap, and,

think, about make ends meet, and that's all.
"Your stay at Bath, I take to be entirely uncertain at pre
Isent, on account of the king's health ; and if it were not so,
Ihave little hopes of being able to join you.
                                                                   meaned to have

gone a week or two to Hull, for the reasons mentioned in my

Iletter to you at York; but even that plan am not sure of being

able to compass. This is the time of year when the college rents

Iare settled, and are falling in by degrees; and not only aim to

do my duty in my new situation, but wish to avoid doing any

                                  * His Jackeonian Professorship.
42 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1788. JETKT. 38.

thing that may look like neglect of business. Such conduct

would vex my friends, and prove a triumph to my opponents.
    I" I dare say I deceive myself, but I have it strongly on my
mind to lead something of a new life.     am sure, that a new

situation, as such, is favourable to a change. All is folly, my

dear friend, but the great change, and will, most assuredly, be

"Ifound so at last ; but we don't look an inch before us.
        think of Miss       often, and of the conversation

I have had with her. Your bodily complaints do not resemble

mine more exactly than many of my mental weaknesses resemble

I Iher's ; and may add, that have often as little solid satisfac

tion as she can have, when loose hands all around suppose our

hearts run over with gaiety and spirits.

            Iw am, most affectionately and truly, yours,
                                                      "I. M.

    " Write that you have received this."

     The following answer to an inquiry made by Mr. Wilberforce,

concerning the then existing proper books to be put into the
hands of a person desirous of obtaining some popular knowledge
of philosophy, may be read with some interest :

           "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

"My dear Sir,                             " Queen's, Wednesday Night,

                                                        November, 1788.

    "The philosophical writers for popular hands are such as
           IHe is excellently adapted to the purpose; can
Ferguson.
speak positively to his merits in this point of view, but I have

not been able to make out to-day the exact title of his books;

for we don't use them much. Ferguson's Astronomy there is;

Iand think in particular, there is a book called, Ferguson's

Dialogues on Astronomy for Ladies. He wrote also on Me

chanics. In general whatever he has written on such subjects

is  to  the purpose.
        Martin, the
     "                late  mathematical  instrument  maker, is another

such hand; but I cannot make out whether he calls his book,

Martin's Philosophy, or Martin's Philosophical Grammar, or

what. He lived in Fleet Street.
              CHAP. IV. A.D. 1788. JETAT. 38.  43

    " A very reasonable and intelligible account of the History

of Philosophy is to be found in Maclaurin's View of Newton's

Discoveries.

              "Yours affectionately,           I. M."

    In the course of the next month, Mr. Milner, always sin

cerely interested in pubUc affairs, and always disposed to think
and decide for himself, on questions of politics, as well as of
literature or theology, wrote, to the same friend, in the following

terms, concerning the political arrangements probably consequent
upon the illness of the king.

              "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

"My dear Sir,         to write              "Hull, Dec. Sth, 1788.
   " I am determined
                                instantly, merely to inform you,

how much satisfaction your letter brought me this morning, in

affirming that there will be no coalition.

"No honourable coalition, with such men, can be formed;
nor can I conceive any necessity which could justify the step.
IAnd yet do not absolutely say, that no such necessity can

/exist, though find it impossible to conceive the case.
I I" When the case happens,
                                shall judge as fairly as can.
IAt present am perfectly persuaded that all Pitf s disinterested

Iwell-wishers among what may be called moderate life (which

forms a very large part of the community), think as do on this

subject, and will embrace the ex-minister more cordially than
Ithey ever did the minister. I cannot say, that was without
Ifears of some sort of coalition or other.
                                            had no good ground

for the apprehension, except the general one, viz., that persons

in these high situations are more subject to delusions and are

seldom completely directed by the ordinary principles of good

Isense and integrity. But the more fears had on this head, the
Imore shall honour the man who proves, by his conduct, that
Ithere was no ground for these fears; and am sorry for the

injus"ticInedeopfetnhdeenctoncoefpttiohne. rectitude of the thing, mere political
considerations suggest the same line of conduct. I make no

scruple to say {fremant omnes) that Fox has not sense to govern
.11 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1789. jETAT. 39.

this nation ; because sense includes discretion. But if they join,

from that moment there is an end of that great distinction which

I wish ever to see between them. All will then be a scramble;

the cry will be, ' They are all alike.' Pitt is deprived of his best

ornament, they must fight with the same weapons, and he will

be beaten; for they know how to use such weapons better than

he does.

    " So much I could not help pouring forth from the fulness

of the heart. * * * *

    " N.B. Young Willis has written to me, to say a word about
introducing his father. I hope he will succeed; he is a man of

strong sense and much experience.

                                        "Yours truly,  " I. M."

    A letter written about this time to the Rev. James Stilling-
fleet, Rector of Hotham, Yorkshire, by Joseph Milner alluding

both to the advancement of Isaac to the mastership of his
college, and to the illness of the king, will be interesting to

many readers.

" Dear Stilo,          with  you,  and       "Hull, Dec. 3rd, 1788.
    " I am in arrears
                                        have to thank you for two
Iletters. But do as little as possible in the epistolary way, even
Iwith my best friends, that may have some time for necessary

"Ithings.
           thank you for your congratulations about my brother.

I wish it may answer a good end to him, and to the Church of

Christ; God only can effect it.

    " Probably by this time they find the king's disorder to be

some species of insanity. Awful Providence! It may last long.
IRegencies are generally turbulent things.
                                            am glad that those

in authority had the heart to direct prayer to be made to Him

who is a refuge in trouble. It has a good look to see so public

an acknowledgement of dependence upon the Almighty; rather

an unusual idea with great people. Many pray fervently for
I
               I
                    I

                                                                   a
                                                                                                           a

                                                                                                 it,
doubt not; hope we may find gracious answer.           little of

 " If all be well, shall probably visit you during
                 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1788. jETAT. 38.              45

Ithe time that my Anti-Ludlam being a-printing, must be

called more than common from home.
   I" But beg you would not make a fuss (as Ludlam says)
I Iabout expecting me.
                           am an old battered hackney;        shall

Icome to refresh my body and mind among you, and indeed am
Inot able to do what once did, through frequent infirmities.
IPray that may be strengthened, after having preached to

others, to walk in the way of holiness for my own soul, and not

myself be a cast-away.

   "I beg my kind regards to Mrs. Stillingfleet and Miss

H , not forgetting Edward.

                 "Always yours affectionately,
                                                              "Joseph Milner.
    " P.S. -- I
"                thank you for the  hare.
   To the Rev.
                 J. StiUingfleet."

   The expression Anti-Ludlam, in the foregoing letter, may

require some explanation.

     The work spoken of as in the press, was an edition of

Joseph Milner's Essays on the Influence of the Holy Spirit*, a
publication partly occasioned by the Rev. William Ludlam's
attack upon Mr. Milner's observations upon Gibbon's Account
of Christianity. With reference to these Essays, the author
himself thus writes : " Personal resentment can scarce be sup

posed to exist against an author who has certainly avoided all

personal abuse; and my concern for the reputation of a former
workf, attacked by him in some of its most important views, is,

I hope, a small thing with me, compared with the magnitude of

Ithe truths undertake to defend, the real glory of God, the best

interests of men, and the preciousness of vital Christianity, which
in no age was ever more speciously undermined than in the

present."

     Dr. Milner, in  asnayasc,co"unHt issuEbssseaqyusenotlny  given by him of his
brother's writings,                                           the Influence of the

Holy Spirit were exceedingly well received, and have been of

   * Now printed in MiLNER'sWorfa,  t Gibbon's Account of Christianity

vol. viii.                          Considered.
1G CHAP. IV. A.D. 1788. JETAT. 38.

great service in the church. This work, though small, is a

durable monument of the author's sound principles, good sense,

and power of discrimination in argument ; and will, doubtless,

prove a valuable protection against heretical and fanciful inter

pretations of Scripture, through succeeding generations."

     The prayer of the pious writer of the foregoing letter, that his

brother's advancement might " answer a good end to the church

of Christ," has been abundantly granted! Queen's College,

under the government of Isaac Milner, became remarkable

for the number of religious young men who studied there, and
of whom many are still, in various places, serving God and their

generation, as able and faithful clergymen of the establishment,

or in other influential stations.

On the 24th of December, Mr. Milner again writing to Mr.

Wilberforce, chiefly with reference to the subject discussed in

his former letter, says, "The papers yesterday gave me great
satisfaction indeed -- as I had conceived that the majority might
have been the other way. Politics run very high here. * *

Always yours, with the most affectionate feelings,   "I. M."

The meetings of the Board of Longitude requiring his at

tendance in London three times a year, Mr. Milner, on these

occasions, staid at the house of this same friend ; and the fre

quent personal intercourse thus secured, doubtless tended to

quicken the tender solicitude with which these excellent men

regarded each other. Among the many intimations of their
mutual affection with which the published Diary of Mr. Wilber

force  abounds, the following passage  may be fitly  inserted here.
       April 3rd, 1789. Heard from     Milner, that
    "                                                ill of a fever ;

Ibut, after a short debate, found that must give up the slave
business if I went to him, so resolved against it." * * * *
                                       with me--had ex
"Milner much on my mind -- B
pected poor Milner-- very comfortable here but for thoughts of

poor Milner."

Mr. Milner being dangerously ill, and greatly debilitated by

fever, was much disappointed at the non-appearance of his

friend. This appears from the following very affecting letter: --
              CHAP. IV. A.D. 1789. JETAT. 39.                        47

            "To William Wilberforce, Esq.
" My dear Sir,
                                                  "Queen's, Monday.
   I" You will be glad to see my own hand, and, therefore,

Istruggle toeffect a   few lines.     the  fever  ran extremely  high,
                 last  wrote to you,
    " When

and appeared likely to be very soon critical. Judge of my
situation --with many things on my mind, and among strangers.

My heart was almost broken when you did not appear. I did
Inot wish you to have staid --but wished to see you. * * *

   " I wrote to my brother by the same post. * * * God

lias been merciful. The fever is abated, but my state of en-

feeblement is infinitely beyond what I ever before experienced.
IIt
   must be a work      of time,  and long time, to recruit.     except
                       bear to   see people ; all are excluded
    " cannot yet

one or two.

   "My heart is full -- but you must forgive me --writing this

proves too much.       " Yours, in the sincerest affection,

                                                            "I. M."

     Mr. Wilberforce was, at this period, putting forth all his
strength in the great cause of the abolition of the slave trade,
and his exertions were frequently encouraged by the sympathy
of his suffering friend.

     In May, 1 789, Mr. Milner thus writes to him :--

" My dear Friend,

    " I am sensibly warmed by your letter of this morning, in

finding that you got through the great trial* so much to your
satisfaction."

     Energetically, however, as Mr. Milner here expresses him
self, he was still suffering from severe indisposition; and his
friend, as may be supposed, was not proof against the appeal
made to him in the foregoing letter.

* A speech with which Mr. Wilberforce opened the debate on the slave

                                                           trade.
48 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1789. jETAT. 39.

DiarAyc,coorndin"gFlyri,dathye,  following entry appears in Mr. Wilberforce's
                                  May 29th. Set off for Cambridge to see
poor Milner -- found him much weakened --in a very pious state

of mind. His brother and Tillotson*, arrived about eleven."

     Joseph Milner, whose arrival at Cambridge is here notified,
had announced to his friend, Mr. Stillingfleet, his intention of

immediately visiting his afflicted brother, in the following very

characteristic letter :--

" Dear Still.,      suffer       any  crossing  "Hull, 28th May, 1789.

    " I had better                              of my will, than be left to

myself altogether, as a self-important, and self-consequential
Ifool ! You and saw enough of that in poor
                                                                         lately.
Though your kindness is real, I should be in danger from you

and my other good friends at Hotham. To be made much of,

suits one's pride but too well. God has deprived me of this.'
I Ifear was but too fond of coming to Hotham.
   " I had a stroke this morning like a thunderbolt.     Alas, my

brother ! I must go to him directly ; I much fear the conse

quence of his fever's relapsing.

"Pray, that he may be renewed in truth, before he depart
Ihence.
         have good hope of this ; not much of the recovery of

his health". With love to Mrs. Stillingfleet,
                                      " I am, yours affectionately,
" The Rev. J. Stillingfleet."                   "Joseph Milner.

     Within a short period, Mr. Milner being somewhat recovered,

though still obviously in a state of great weakness, wrote to Mr.
Wilberforce as follows : --

"My dear Sir,

   I" My brother
                    went         away last               "Sunday night,  1789.
                                                Tuesday. * * *           *

have had hard struggles ever since. The fever has been making

continual efforts, but by the blessing of God, has been kept

under. Friday and Saturday most insupportable headaches,

* An old friend who subsequently lived with Dr. Milner.
            CHAP. IV. A.D. 1789. jETAT. 39.                                                         49

which threatened a complete relapse, as this complaint began
Iwith great pain and stupor in the head.
How much have I to be thankful for !                am better to-day.

" It is great pain to me to write, and, therefore, I can only
just assure you, that I think many times a day of your present

state of fatigue and anxiety.
" I was sorry to be told by Dr. Jowett, that you did not look
healthy -- I know that in this hurry, you will neglect yourself.
                                                                                                    "I. M.
                               "Yours,

    " My chymical helper is fallen   ill of    the  same  complaint.
" To Wm. Wtlberforce, Esq."

Having some time afterwards ventured upon a visit to

London, Mr. Milner on his return wrote to the same friend, a

letter  containing    the following  striking  passage : --                                         so
                    the journey to   London    and back useful -- and
    "   I thought

"* Iit may still have been ; but on Wednesday last, grew very ill.
         * * I must be short; I write with difficulty--and

I leave it to you to infer and supply.
" I laid three days and nights in bed, without at all moving
--a thing I never did in my life for two days.
            " Nevetheless, God was with me more than ever before ;
I don't pretend to prove this to another, but it is so. Blessed
Ibe God ! wish I could say so thoroughly ; I do in part.
" God bless you, my dear Sir.
                                                                                                    " I. M."

About this time Mr. Milner communicated to the Royal

Society a paper, upon a subject which has already been men
                           a considerable portion of his thoughts --
t"ioTnheed   as occupying  Nitrous Acid and Nitrous Air*." This
            Production of

paper was read at the meeting of the society, July 2nd, 1789.

Of Mr. Milner's discoveries on this subject, as applied to the

making of gunpowder, the French are known to have availed

themselves, much to their national advantage.

            * See Transactions of the Royal Society for the year, 1789.
                                                                                                 E
50 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1790. jETAT. 40.

      Some letters relating to these discoveries, from persons
eminent for chymical knowledge, will be found under their

proper dates.
     During the years 1790 and 1791, Mr. Milner's health was

such as to render it necessary that he should be formally excused
from the delivery of his accustomed lectures as Jacksonian
professor. Accordingly a certificate to this effect, from Sir
Isaac Pennington, M.D., and a permission, signed by William
Cooke, Provost of King's College, T. Postlethwaite, Master of
Trinity College, and William Craven, Master of St. John's

College, gave licence to the Jacksonian professor, " in considera

tion of his great diligence and punctuality in former years, in
the discharge of his duty, and on account of his ill-health," to
omit his lectures in 1 790, and to procure a proper assistant or
deputy, in 1791.

    At this period, Mr. Milner corresponded upon the subject
of his health, both with Dr. Fothergill, a physician of consider
able repute, and with the celebrated John Hunter.

     The letters which still exist from both these eminent medical

advisers are as remarkable for their friendly sympathy, as for
their professional ability.

     Dr. Fothergill, who was a member of the Society of Friends,
thus writes : --

"Respected Friend,

    I" have perused and considered thy case with much atten
tion. It is the description of a most unhappy being, and the

wretchedness is increased by reflecting on the miseries of the
past, and the hopeless prospects of the future -- a situation of

mind which is perpetually increasing the disorder and rendering
*****it more difficult to cure ; yet how to prevent it is as difficult to
conceive.  it De worth while, not only to

think like a philosopher, but to act like one, -- I mean that thou

shouldest look as little as possible upon the past disappoint

ments in respect of health, and cherish hope of better days."

   I" Dear Sir," writes John Hunter, a few months later, "

received the favour of your letter on the 17th of last month,
                 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.                                          51

                                        is

                                          aI

                                                                       is it,
                                                                                   (I it
and, at first, was almost frightened to read  and laid down

to be taken up again when could give time to read and consider

the contents. The case                    singular one, and such as                     think)

no man can say at once, what should be done."

Still, however, although not compelled by any authority, Mr.

Milner, unless absolutely incapacitated by ill-health, continued,

with the assistance of Hoffman, the German, to give chymical

lectures, until his promotion to the deanery of Carlisle, on

which event, he, from principle, resigned the office of Jackso-

nian professor.

    It very generally known, that Dr. Milner took great
        is
                                                                                                                  a
delight in practical mechanics. So fond, indeed, was he of

ingenious manual labour, that there was at Queen's Lodge,

large room, known in the family by the name of the Work

shop, fitted up with lathes, furnaces, work-benches, grind-stones,

bellows, blow-pipes, electrical apparatus, &c. &c, in which

apartment, either alone, or with some intimate friend of cor

responding tastes, he used frequently to employ himself in

various mechanical operations, as well as in chemical experi

ments.

The following brief extracts from an extensive correspon

dence which he maintained with the Rev. Thomas Ludlam, of
Leicester-- man of considerable eminence as mathematician,
and great lover of mechanics -- are highly characteristic; and
a                                             a
             a                                              2

exhibit, in a very strong light, the enthusiastic eagerness with  '

which, throughout his life, Isaac Milner devoted himself to

whatever pursuit chanced, for the time being, to engage his

attention.

This peculiar constitution of mind has been thought, by

some persons, to have led him to a misapplication of his time
and talents. To say, that such an effect was never, in any

it a

                          ;

                              it it,
                                      is
degree, produced by would, perhaps, be to make too unguarded

an assertion since                        undoubtedly true, that he would some

times expend much close and energetic research, and, of course,

   considerable  portion                oaf ptpimeaer,edupuonnwothrethyeluocfidsautcihonsacorfifictoepsi,c--s,
which, to most   persons,

may however, be safely affirmed, that, upon the whole, this turn

                                                  e
52 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1790. jETAT. 40.                        ,

of mind was not only highly advantageous to its possessor, but,
that it was, in fact, the principal cause both of his achieve
ments in science and of his worldly advancement.

                "To the Reverend T. Ludlam*.

" Dear Sir,                          " Queen's College, June 13, 1790.
    " Our election of members of parliament comes on next

Thursdayt ; and till that bustle be over, I expect neither to

hear nor see anything reasonable or decent, and to have no time

for any thing but nonsensical talk with fresh faces. I then

mean to set off immediately for Hull ; both on my own account

and that of my mother, who is in her eightieth year. It is very

desirable for me to get into the country, near the air of the sea

or Humber, as soon as may be : if I were in London, I could

not go much about this hot weather, in search of the precious

metals (as William Ludlam used to call steel and brass) ; and

any thing that can be transacted by letter, can be done as well
                                                          ***
at  the distance  of two hundred miles, as of fifty.
                   beforehand, that steel often flies     and casts
     " We knew                                                       in

the hardening: therefore, why are we surprised? The laws
of nature are not to be suspended because I want a mandril. I
Ionly wish knew with accuracy, what those laws were ! The

*********present ingot, I think, ought not to be thrown aside so long as
ther"e  is any  of it left.  again.
                means try
        By all
    " N.B. -- I shall wait patiently for your next account; but

upon seeing the outside of the letter, shall be in such a pucker

as to lose all philosophy.   " I am very sincerely,

                                          " Your obliged  servant,

                                                                  " I. M.
    " P.S. -- A celebrated French mathematician, M. D'Alembert,

  * It may be proper to observe, that     years after the date of these letters.
                                             T Mr. Pitt and Lord Euston were
certain theological writings of the Rev.
T. Ludlam, animadverted upon by Dr.       re-elected Members for the University
Milner, in his account of his brother's   of Cambridge in 1790.
works, were not published till some
             CHAP. IV. A.D. 1790. jETAT. 40.                       53

has written, in his Opuscules, a tract on probabilities, to shew

that nature delights in variety; so that if a halfpenny has fallen

heads, ten times together, it is more than an equal chance, that

Iit will fall tails  the eleventh time.    anything  more absurd,  or
                      can conceive hardly
    " Though

irrational, yet I confess, that my weakness in such cases, is
Irather on that side; and feel myself inclined to imitate the

above-mentioned great man, in this instance of human infirmity,

particularly as it makes for us.
    "The mandril has failed once --Courage! Success grows more

probable from failure. True gamblers act on the opposite

principle. They always back theman who is in luck. Most

sensible men like to have the winning seats at whist; and I

have been told, that money is frequently given for them, by
Ithose who should understand such things.
                                                     am suffering

to-day from bodily indisposition, but my head is clear as a

bell."

The game of whist being, in the foregoing letter, incident

ally alluded to, it may be as well here to say a few words
concerning Dr. Milner's sentiments with regard to card-

playing.

    ISo far as his own practice was concerned, have frequently

heard him say, that he gave up the habit of playing at cards

long before he entertained any thoughts respecting its innocence

or guilt -- propriety or impropriety, simply because " it ran away

with time    which would   otherwise  have been better employed;"
              he used to              fingers were often so stained
" besides,"               add, " my

by operations in the laboratory, that I really was ashamed to

exhibit them." Afterwards, indeed, when his religious principles

became fixed, it was impossible that a subject, so often agitated,

could escape his notice; and were it my especial object to
recommend him to the approbation of the many excellent

Ipersons who regard card-playing as, in itself, a sin, might

dismiss the matter with the remark, that subsequent to that

period, he never joined a card-party. Those, however, who

have taken the trouble to possess themselves of the little know
ledge of Dr. Milner's character which may be gleaned by the
54 CHAP. IV. A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.

perusal of the foregoing pages, will be prepared to believe, that

he never laid much stress upon merely external matters. Card-
playing as a means of gambling, he reprobated; and, as offend

ing the feelings and opinions of many sincere Christians, he

would certainly, on St. Paul's principle, have abstained from  it,

even he had considered altogether irreprehensible, or had been

inclined, as mere amusement, occasionally to practise it. But
if

             a

                              it

farther than this he did not go. Cant and affectation of every

kind he abhorred; and to say the truth, he was rather partial to

what are called tricks with cards, especially such as depended

upon reasoning or calculation. When was a child, he used
                                            aI
often to amuse me by shewing me such tricks, and explaining

the principles upon which they depended. Nor did he take any

pains to conceal the nature, or the implements, of our entertain

ment. well remember his answer to an old and intimate friend,
I

who, on entering his study, observed pack of cards on the

table, and addressed to him a remonstrance on the occasion:

" While you live," said Dr. Milner, " never be afraid of bug

bears."

Among the numerous letters to Mr. T. Ludlam, written

about this period, there are many in which the sympathizing

friendship of Mr. Milner                    as apparent as his mechanical
a

  it
                                        is
enthusiasm; and all exhibit the eager earnestness with which
the writer was accustomed to pursue his object, however com
paratively trifling. His ardent temperament would not suffer
him to rest satisfied with anything short of the utmost perfection

which was possible for him to attain in any art or science to

which his attention was once turned; and to the possession of

such temperament, joined to mental powers of the first order,

may doubtless be attributed the extraordinary extent and variety
of his knowledge.

     Mr. Milner's thirst of knowledge was a trait in his character

which could not escape the observation of any who had oppor
tunities of associating with him; but the growing influence which

religious principle was, at this period, obtaining over his mind,

was probably unknown even to some of his intimate friends. If

what here stated be thought inconsistent with the simplicity
of his character, should be considered, that, in addition to his
is
                it
            CHAP. IV. A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.                             55

genuine abhorrence of anything like ostentation in religious

matters, he felt and retained to the end of his life, a salutary fear

of saying more on such subjects than his feelings strictly
warranted -- a pernicious practice from which he thought some

truly religious persons not altogether free. Be this as it may,

he was, at this time, in the habit of keeping a private diary

with a view to his spiritual improvement; and while, to most

persons, he appeared a mere man of the world, eager in the

pursuit of  "lehaurnnginegringor   preferment,   he was, in truth, a    humble
Christian,                        and thirsting  after righteousness."
                      56

                      CHAPTER V.

Extracts from Private Diary.-- Prayers and Religious Meditations.

                          A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.

Much diversity of opinion exists concerning the propriety of

giving to the public, any extracts from private diaries of a
"Isreligious nature.
                      such a step fair to the deceased?" is a
question which Isaac Milner very seriously debated with

himself, before he resolved upon the publication of some of the

private religious reflections of his departed brother.

     From any anxious consideration of this question, the present

biographer is, however, relieved by the fact --perhaps much to
be regretted by the religious world--that Dean Milner, some

time previous to his death, gave express directions for the

destruction of the greater part of the papers containing his

private religious meditations.

    It is, however, considered allowable to publish the following

very interesting extracts from the diary alluded to in the last

chapter, and not included among the papers directed to be

destroyed :--

    " May 2d, 1790. How much reason have I to be thankful,

that it hath pleased God to lay this affliction of bodily sickness

upon me ! Assuredly I was going in the broad way to destruc

tion. For though there was nothing openly gross or scandalous

in my conduct, yet a very little reflection convinces me, that my
life had nothing to do with that of a Christian. -- God was not

Iin my thoughts. I consulted self only. -- transacted my ordi

nary business with diligence and credit to myself; but the rea

sons of my conduct were pride, ambition, love of reputation,

hopes of advancement, and such like : to which, however, I may
add the pleasure I took in the study and improvement of natural

philosophy and mathematics; but all this began and ended in

self-gratification, and, as I had no better motives myself, it was
       CHAP. V. A.D. 1730. JETAT. 40.  57.

impossible that I should teach others to regulate their conduct

by superior or more holy principles than the above mentioned
-- love of fame, of consequence, and of advancement, and the

I /prospect of much mental pleasure in study. But how self-con

demned do I appear, when recollect that, all the while, knew

better things ! There is some excuse for numbers that live

around me and with me --they have never been in the way of
true instruction ; whereas I have been acquainted with evange
lical truth for many years, and yet, in defiance of conviction, I

have gone on for years breaking God's commandments, and
encouraging others to do so by my example. Oh ! Lord, forgive
me ! and have mercy on thine afflicted servant ! Oh ! let my
mouth be stopped, and let me never say, that Thou dealest
hardly with me, in continuing the pains of my body."

The next extract from these interesting papers consists of

reflections, evidently intended as helps to self-examination at
the close of a week; and of hints concerning the proper end and

employment of the Sabbath."

" Saturday Evening.
" 1. The end of another week.
" 2. Make us serious in reviewing the week ; day by day--

       are we better -- &c. --
" 3. Have we grown in grace ?

"4. If we cannot give satisfactory answers, let us dedicate

         ourselves to God afresh ; and take confusion of face.

"5. As means --prepare for the Sabbath -- use God's means,

       and don't dispute about it.
" 6. The End of the Sabbath -- service of God --prayer --
       thanksgiving -- meditation .
"
   7-  May holy men throughout       the world be employed well

       -- pray for the king, parliament and magistrates; for

          religion and piety.

"8. For protection during the day -- for God's forbearance."

     Dr. Milner has himself observed in his Life of his brother,

that "when we are presented with a regular diary of private
meditations, the internal evidence of piety and good sense is not
58 CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. /ETAT. 40.

usually found sufficient to convince us of the perfect integrity of

the writer/' Few persons, however, will suspect the writer of

the above unfinished reflections, of having had the smallest

intention of courting the applause of posterity, through their

medium. --

Of these reflections, that marked 4, is precisely in accordance

with the advice which Dr. Milner invariably gave to persons

who consulted him, under    convictions of spiritual   declension.

" Never attempt," he would  say, " to bolster up the  past -- go to

Christ afresh, as a believing and repentant sinner."

The following observations, apparently of the same date,

seem to have been suggested by the perusal of the 15th chapter

of St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans:--

" Romans xv. 13th verse.

    "The pleasure a minister takes in perceiving fruit of his
labours. It is reasonable to value it.-- He knows the value of

an immortal soul. A similar pleasure all feel, who have turned

the wicked from their way.

"Verse £5. Some of St. Paul's prayers were answered --
others not directly --he was delivered into the hands of the Jews
--but that brought him to Rome-- where
    " God answers prayers differently -- He  he preached.        on."
                                             likes to be waited

     Of the following prayers and meditations, apparently written
during this year, some appear to have been partly intended for
family worship, and some suggested by Mr. M ilnei^s private
reading of particular portions of Scripture.

                        "Evening Prayer.

" O Lord ! we fall down before Thee, and desire to acknow

ledge and bewail our manifold sins and wickedness, which, from

time to time, we have committed against Thee. We have lived
a great part of our lives as though there had been, in the world,

no God who considers men's actions, and will assuredly recom
Ifpense them according to their deserts.
                                             we have been re

strained from the commission of gross crimes, we must ascribe

the restraint to thy merciful superintending kindness, which
CHAP. V.- A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.  59

daily protects us, in numerous instances, though we continue
careless and unthankful. Sometimes a sense of decency, some

times self-interest, or a regard to character, has preserved us
from open transgressions, or private indulgences ; but, on
reviewing and well considering our past conduct, in how few
instances can we truly say, that we have been influenced by a
love to God, by a desire of promoting his glory in the world,
and by a grateful remembrance of the sufferings and death of
our Saviour ! O Lord ! we have neither been faithful to the light
which we have had, nor have we been useful to others, in setting

them examples of diligence and piety. We have lived in the
world under the name of Christians, but we have been utter

strangers to the power of Christ's doctrine, and have brought
forth no fruits unto holiness. O Lord ! when we think on these

things, we are covered with shame and confusion, and can only
cry out, God be merciful to us sinners !

    " How abundantly thankful, then, ought we to be for that

great kindness, long-suffering, and forbearance, by which we are
at this moment numbered among the living, and permitted to
approach the throne of thy grace, there honestly to confess our

sins, and to entreat for their remission, through the all-prevailing
name and intercession of Jesus Christ! Thou mightest, very
justly, have dealt severely with us, and we might now have been
receiving the proper wages of our sins, of our long neglect of
thy holy laws, and of our rejection of proffered grace through
the gospel. But Thou hast not dealt with us according to our
works ; in thy wrath Thou hast thought on mercy, and we are
monuments of thy patience and forgiveness.

    " Grant, O Lord, that thy goodness may lead us to re

pentance, and that we may become thy faithful and willing

servants.

     " Dreadful will it be, if thy long forbearance with us should,

in the end, only serve to manifest our greater perverseness and
hardness of heart, and to increase our condemnation !

    " At the same time that we hope better things, and desire

to return Thee most hearty thanks, that by thy Holy Spirit,
Thou hast put into our minds any wishes to serve Thee better
60 CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.

in future, teach us, O Lord, in no respect to rely on ourselves
for change of heart and amendment of conduct.

      "Teach us to know experimentally, that without Christ
assisting us by his Holy Spirit, we can do nothing effectually :
and, that all our resolutions, endeavours, and prospects of success,

will be fruitless and vain. In His strength therefore --through
His assistance, we offer up to Thee our souls and bodies, as a

lively and reasonable sacrifice : we commit ourselves to the
protection of our Lord, as our king: we rely on Him as our
priest to make atonement for us, and we apply to Him as our
prophet, for wisdom, and instruction in spiritual things. O
Lord ! it is easy, on our bended knees, to use these words, and
to make these resolutions ; but the natural corruption of our
hearts, and our habits of sin and negligence, will soon prevail,
and bring us into an indolent and formal state of contentment,
and of fatal security, unless Thou be continually near, warning
us from sloth, and protecting us from temptation, or chastening
us with misfortunes and adversity. While, therefore, we pretend
to commit ourselves to thy care and guidance, teach us to submit
with patience, to thy dispensations.

    " Thou hast proved our merciful protector during the past

day ; we have gone out and come in, and no harm has happened
unto us; and Thou hast provided us abundantly with daily bread,
and with every thing needful and convenient, while many are in
want, and in distress. Guard and keep us safe during the dark
ness of the night; let no mischief come near our bodies, nor
any temptations assault our minds; and if it please Thee to
refresh us with sleep, and to raise us up to see another day,
grant that we may spend it in thy service, and to thy glory, and
to the furtherance of our immortal interests."

                      "Saturday Evening.

    " O, Almighty God, who, by thy holy apostles, hast taught

us, that in the religion of Jesus Christ, neither circumcision nor
uncircumcision availeth any thing, but a new creature; who didst
vouchsafe, both to the Jews and to the Gentiles, the gift of the
Holy Ghost, and who didst shew to the first Christians, that
              CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. -BTAT. 40.                61

there was no difference between Jew and Gentile except that

which consisted in the purifying of their hearts by faith ; give

unto us, we beseech Thee, that most excellent gift of faith, by

which, as the Scriptures teach us, the heart believeth unto righte

ousness. We know, O God, that without faith, it is impossible

to please Thee, for the Scripture expressly declares and adds,:

that whoever cometh unto Thee, must believe, that Thou art,'
                                        it
and that Thou art rewarder of them that diligently seek Thee.is
We have no reason to expect thy blessing, so long as we con
tinue in careless, indifferent, or sensual state -- so long as wea it,
a                                                                          if,
                   a

are given up to worldly enjoyments, or, so long as our minds are

improperly and unreasonably concerned in worldly cares, and

worldly pursuits. As little are we to expect thy blessing,

after having discharged certain duties of the day, in tolerably

decent manner, we say to our soul, 'Well done, thou hast

deserved praise and reward at thy Maker's hands.' Keep us,
good Lord, by thy mighty protection, from these dangerous

extremes keep us mindful of duties, and at the same time,
           :

disposed to reckon our best services as filthy rags.' Give us to

know, that, in our own strength, we cannot so much as do one good

action, or think one good thought and that    only through the

merits of thy beloved Son, and through faith in his blood, that

our best and most active services are accepted by Thee. Give

us to see, that, without thy constantly superintending grace, we

are for ever prone to deviate from the path of Christian holiness,

and, that                only by this grace, with persevering watchfulness,
'
that we can hope to preserve ourselves 'unspotted from the
          ;'

                it
                     is
world,' and to retain a conscience void of offence.'

    " Grant, Lord, that we may not grieve and quench thy Holy
                         '
                                        '
Spirit, whereby alone we can be sealed unto the day of redemp

tion but that by continuance in well-doing, we may render our

cal"linAgftearndunefleeicgtnioendlysutrhea.'nking Thee for the mercies of the day

past, and begging of Thee to give us grateful insight into the
                                           a

true value of daily protection, daily sustenance, and daily com

forts and conveniences, we entreat Thee to defend us against the

perils and dangers of the night. As we knew not, in the morn

ing, what this day might bring forth, so do we not know what
 62 CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.

 may be required of us in the succeeding night. O give us a
 watchful spirit, and a spirit of prayer ! Thou art a prayer-hear
 ing God, and givest liberally to them that ask it of Thee, and
 upbraidest not. Enable us, through thy beloved Son, to ask
 and to obtain that state of spiritual preparation, that we may

 not be taken unawares, or with our lamps untrimmed, and with
 out oil, at whatever hour Thou mayest choose to call upon us.

 Grant us, O Lord, this great blessing, for thy Son, Jesus Christ's
 sake. Once more we pray Thee to take us into thy protection
this night ; and, if Thou dost preserve us to another day, grant,
that we may rise in the morning to praise Thee with joyful lips.
 So do Thou lead us on from day to day, till, at last, we come to
that bright and eternal day, when the sun shall set no more."

     " O Holy, and ever blessed God, it is very meet, and our

bounden duty, to return Thee hearty thanks for the discovery of
thy rich mercies, contained in the Holy Scriptures. Among the
many distinguished mercies and blessings which we, in this
happy and highly-favoured country, enjoy, teach us, with true
gratitude and thankfulness, to acknowledge thy fatherly good
ness, in permitting us to read those sacred books which open to
us the way of Everlasting Life. While many persons in distant
countries and climates which the Gospel has yet never reached,
are in extreme ignorance, doubt, or apprehension, about their
future state, it is our own fault, if we do not both know what
belongs to our salvation, and also take care to secure it.

    " It is not owing to the severe and rigid character of God,
if we are not justified by faith, and if we have not peace with

Him, through our Lord Jesus Christ.
    " As then, O Lord, Thou hast given us access by faith unto

this grace, enable us, by thy Spirit to rejoice with thy holy
apostles, and with all good men, in the hope of the glory of
God. And should it please Thee in thy wisdom to lessen, or
to deprive us of several of our worldly comforts, grant that
we may also ' glory in tribulation ;' and know, by a spiritual
and happy experience, that 'tribulation worketh patience, and
patience, experience, and experience, hope. Let us never
                            CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. .STAT. 40.                    6*

forget, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for the
ungodly. In this wonderful way, He commended his love to us,
and saved us from eternal wrath. ' How,' then, ' shall we escape,
if we neglect so great salvation ?' There remaineth no further

sacrifice for sin: no further hope of a fresh dispensation for
fallen and ungrateful man. There is only left a ' certain fearful

looking for* of a           day of judgment.   us from   a careless and negli
                            Lord, and protect
    " Defend, O

gent spirit, while we exist in this world, which is our state of

probation : and grant, that we may honestly receive our Lord

and Master, in all his offices, and so become acquainted with
that ' hope' which ' maketh not ashamed.' May we earnestly

press for an interest in his merits, and become his faithful soldiers

and servants unto our fives' end. Guard us, on all occasions,

from offending Thee, and from quenching thy Spirit by idle and

sensual indulgences; and keep us humble in our spirits, and

activ"eW, dhialigteevnet,r  and conscientious in    the  discharge   of our   duties.
                            we pray for ourselves,  we   pray also,  for our  friends

and relatives, and for all who are near and dear unto us. Do

Thou make them near and dear unto Thee : enlighten their

minds with true understanding of thy word ; and make them

zealous and fervent Christians, devoted to thy service, all the

days of their lives. So shall we, at last, meet them, in a happy
and glorious eternity, and for ever sing praise together, to ' God

and to the Lamb.'

"We bless Thee, that no harm has happened to us this day.

May we lie down in peace, and safely rest under the protecting

shadow of Thy Almighty wings. If Thou art with us, no evil

shall happen unto us; if Thou forsake us, we become a prey to

wicked men, to wicked spirits, and to our own wicked imagina

tions. If it please Thee, that we should survive another day,

may we live that day in Thy service. Prepare us, good Lord,

for every event, and every event for us."

     The above compositions are not presented to the reader, as
they certainly were not intended by the writer, as models of

supplicatory addresses to the Almighty. They are peculiar in
their character, and seem to partake of the nature both of
64 CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. .STAT. 40.

prayers, and of religious meditations. In fact, the readers of
them are, perhaps, admitted into as close an intimacy with the
feelings of him who wrote them, as is possible in this state of
existence. They are, as it were, present in his closet, and
witness the actual current of his thoughts while prostrate before
his Maker. Such effusions coming from the pen of such a man,
are, doubtless, intrinsically valuable; and it is needless to add,
that they must be especially interesting to the surviving friends
of Dr. Milner.

     The remaining prayers and meditations, seem to have been
suggested by passages occurring in Mr. Milner's private perusal
of the Scriptures.

" Romans, ii.

" O ever blessed God ! It is our bounden duty to fall down

before Thee, and with the deepest humility to confess our

manifold sins and wickedness, and to thank Thee for thy great
mercy towards us, miserable sinners. O grant that we may
approach Thee, not with a form of words only, but with the

heart ! We are encompassed with dangers on every side; and

not the least of those dangers is, lest our prayers, instead of

being acceptable to Thee, should, on account of negligence,
levity, or formality, become an abomination in thy sight. O that
we may be effectually secured against a careless spirit! Let the
remembrance of our past lives be ever present with us. Like

sheep we have gone astray; from our earliest infancy we have

repeatedly broken thy express laws; we have followed the devices

and desires of our own hearts; we have walked according to the
course of this world, according to the ' prince of the power of

the air;' 'the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobe

dience;' we have stifled the dictates of conscience; and it is of

thy great mercy, that we are not now receiving the wages of our

iniquity, in a state of punishment.  Sometimes, O God, we are

ashamed and confounded, when we think on these things, and

are less disposed to trifle with Thee, our Maker, our bountiful

Protector, and our compassionate Redeemer. But how soon are

these impressions effaced; how cold and slothful do we speedily
CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. JETAT. 40.  (»")

grow; and how readily do our thoughts wander from communi
cation with Thee! In our distresses, indeed, we remember our

disobedience and our backslidings, and we call upon the name

of the Lord; but no sooner is the storm blown over, than we

sink again into the miry paths of worldly vanities, pride, ambi

tion, or sensuality.

    " What an awful lesson have I read to-night, in the writings

of thy holy apostle, Saint Paul, respecting the ancient Jews.
They digged down thine altars, they killed thy prophets, and
proceeded to such a pitch of obdurate and practical wickedness,
that, in thy righteous determination, Thou didst punish them
with a judicial blindness. Thou gavest them the spirit of slumber
-- eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not
hear, even in the day when the blessed gospel of salvation was
preached unto them. We, O Lord, are in nowise better than
they. We have rebelled against clearer light and greater know
ledge; but Thou hast not dealt with us according to our iniqui
ties. Oh! let the remembrance- of thy great mercies, and long

forbearance, at last lead us to repentance.

     "We desire to be thankful to Thee, O God, if Thou hast on

any occasion alarmed our consciences, and made us sensible of

our perilous situation. If Thou hast made us to flee to Thee, in

any degree, with a penitent heart, and with desires of at length
becoming thy true and faithful servants, O grant that these
awakenings may be the sure dawn of a more perfect day, in due

time to be revealed; and, that at length, before we die, the day-
star of hope, of consolation, of joy in believing, may arise upon
our hearts. Pardon the many sins of vanity, folly, and careless-
less, which thy pure eyes have seen in us to-day. We said, that
we would ' take heed unto our ways,' but how prone are we to

forget thy commandments, and our own promises: how apt are
we to be drawn astray by the trifling temptations of this wicked
world, and the more numerous delusive suggestions of our own
 hearts. The cure of all this is a more lively faith in the Redeemer,
a deeper insight into the holiness of the law of God, a greater
 hatred of sin, and a more ardent love and panting after commu
 nion with Thee. O enable us, with holy David, to say with
 sincerity, that our soul panteth after Thee, as the hart panteth

                                                               f
tifi CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. /ETAT. 40.

after the water-brooks.  Blessed be God and our merciful

Redeemer, that, amidst all this weakness, and all this wickedness,

we have the blood of Jesus to flee to--the blood which cleanseth

from all sin. Let this be our hope and sure anchor, both in life

and in death. May we this night lie down in peace, firmly
relying on this hope; and if Thou shouldst please to grant unto

us a safe and peaceful night of rest, may we awake in the

morning with our bodies refreshed and our minds still relying

on the hope and prospect of a blessed immortality, through our
Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.

    " May this Christian faith and hope, and this glorious pros

pect, carry us through to-morrow and every day which Thou

mayest please to vouchsafe unto us. And may we, with hearty

desires of serving Thee better than we have hitherto done, become

improving Christians, and thy faithful soldiers and servants, unto

our lives' end."

" ' O come, let us sing unto the Lord.'
" ' O come let us worship and fall down, and kneel before

the Lord our maker; for he is a great God, and a great king

above all gods.'

    " Enable us, O Lord, to call Thee our God, for we are ' the

people of thy pasture, and the sheep    of thy  hand.'        good
                                         come   the numerous
    " If we reflect at all from whence

things which we enjoy, we must be sensible, that they are all

derived from thy bounty. When we are hungry, who shall

satisfy us, if Thou shouldest withhold thy plentiful hand ! Who
else can supply us when we are thirsty! And if we be naked

and exposed to the inclemencies of the weather, to whom must we

look for covering, but to the same bountiful Giver, who foresees

all our wants, and who not only provides for our necessities, but

also gratifies our feelings with a superfluous abundance of com

forts and pleasures. But these blessings are so common, that

we are apt to receive them as things of course; or if we do think

about them, we are prone to suppose, that we have a sort of right
to them, and thus to fly in the face of Thee, the powerful and

bountiful Author and Giver of them all.

    " Notwithstanding this our ingratitude, Thou continuest to
CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. AT AT. 40.                                                                           r>7

do us good, and to bless us with health, with plenty, and with

prosperity. If our health fail, or if adversity overtake us, if

Thou see good to plague us with public famine, or to lessen our

domestic comforts, we then, for a time, acknowledge our un-

worthiness, and show some signs of repentance ; but no sooner

does the darkness disperse, no sooner do the winds and storms

abate, than we return to our usual practice of slothfulness, in

dulgence, and sensuality. Oh ! put us continually in mind, that

' we are the people of thy pasture ;' and, if it be necessary, O

Lord, chasten us ; but ' not in thine anger, lest thou bring us to

nothing.' Above all, feed us with the bread and with the water

of life, that we may neither hunger nor thirst again. Give us

spiritual blessings, and make our souls to prosper in vigorous

and active health.                                       O grant that

    " It is said, ' to-day, if ye will hear his voice.'

we may not harden our hearts, as the hearts of the children of

Israel were hardened in the wilderness, when, during so many

years, they tempted and provoked Almighty God. Let the con

sideration of the danger of putting off, from day to day, the things

that concern our immortal interests, effectually alarm us, and

bring about a thoughtful, diligent, and watchful state of mind.

' Now is the accepted time' --' to-day, if ye will hear his voice.'

To-morrow, it may be, in many ways, loo late. We may be

numbered with the dead, and our lot maybe reckoned among the

transgressors ; or we may be alive, and may have sinned till our

hearts are hardened and thoroughly impenitent ; we may have

rejected the proffered offers of mercy, we may have quenched
thy Holy Spirit so often, that thou wilt no longer ' strive' with
us -- God ' will not always strive with man.' Although there be

mercy for every returning sinner, although all that are weary
and heavy laden with the burden of sin are sure to find rest,

upon a sincere application to our Redeemer ; yet we may neg
lect to make this application, till we are no longer disposed to

make and till the God of mercy and forgiveness, may swear
in his wrath, that we shall not enter into his rest. If, then, on
it,
                      O

                                               f

                                                                                                      2
anv occasion, Thou, most merciful Father, puttest into our
minds good desires, grant, we beseech Thee, that we may be

faithful to these convictions, and not abuse thy long forbearance
  68 CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. &TAT. 40.

 and patience. And whenever it has pleased Thee to enable us
 to pray, with any degree of warmth and sincerity, grant that we
 "may possess a waiting spirit-- a spirit which expects its prayers

 "to be answered, and which is uneasy if they be not answered.

        Thy pure eyes have seen in us much amiss in the course of
 the day past : glory be to Thee, that we have a Redeemer to apply
 to, as a foundation for the expecting of forgiveness at thy hands.
 Teach us to be, in future, more careful, more simple-minded, and
 more spiritual. Teach us to examine our conduct, with a
jealous attention ; and where we find ourselves to be unusually

 weak and liable to sin, may we be, in those points, more on our
 guard, and more solicitous and importunate in imploring assist
 ance at the throne of grace. So shall we approach nearer and
 nearer to the perfect man.

     " Bless our king, and all who are in authority under him.

 Bless our near friends and relatives, and all mankind, and
 do unto them every good which we can ask, or imagine for our
 selves; but, above all, let their immortal souls be precious
in thy sight. May they, and we, together walk like true Chris
 tians, whose eyes are steadily fixed on futurity. So shall we
together enjoy a blessed eternity, purchased for us by our dear
Redeemer, Jesus Christ. Amen."

                           " I. Corinthians, x.
     " Grant, O Lord, if it please Thee, that we may read thy

Holy Scriptures with advantage. Grant, that our ideas may be
spiritualized, and, that, through thy grace, we may be enabled
to drink freely of the water which floweth from Christ, the
spiritual Rock, and never thirst again. We have been baptized
in his name, and have a much clearer revelation of the nature
of his salvation than was vouchsafed to the Israelites, who were
only initiated into the true religion by types and emblems ; and
it is our own fault, and will be our condemnation, if we do not
turn to good account this superior knowledge and information.
O may we, in the great day of account, be found to have been
faithful stewards of thy mysteries ! as, most assuredly, since more
is given, more will be required at our hands.
            CHAP. V. A.D. 1790. jETAT. 40.                          69

" How alarming is the history of the favourite people of

God ! And their history is assuredly written for our example .

They tempted God, and provoked Him by multiplied transgres
sions, till He ' sware in his wrath, that they should not enter

into   his  rest.' O make us watchful and humble;             a"nd  'Let
him   that  thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall
                                                          !'

                         " I. Corinthians, xiii.
    " Give us, we beseech Thee, O Lord, that love to God and

man, which will abide when faith is superseded by sight, and
hope is swallowed up in enjoyment. Give us to know thy true
character, and make us to live, as always in thy presence.
Grant that we may not be eye-servants, but, that it may be our
pleasure to serve Thee from love and gratitude. We shall then
neither ' behave' ourselves ' unseemly,' nor ' seek' our ' own,'
nor be ' easily provoked ;' we shall ' think' ' no evil ;' we shall
'bear all things,' 'believe all things,' 'endure all things;' we
shall exemplify Christian principles, and improve in Christian
practice."
                                 10

              CHAPTER VI.

Mechanical pursuits.--Nominated to the Deanery of Carlisle. -- Correspondence.
-- Illness of Joseph Milner. -- Dr. Paley. --Distinguishing traits in the cha
racter of Dean Milner. --Slave-trade abolition. -- Revolutionary spirit in
England. -- Correspondence. -- Mr. Milner takes the Degree of D.D. --
Visits his Brother at Hull. --Letter from Joseph Milner to the Rev.
James Stillingfleet. --Explanation of some peculiarities in Dr. Milner's
--Conduct     Extracts from Correspondence with William Hey, Esq. --
Certificates of Ill-health. --Dr. Milner elected Vice-Chancellor. -- Corre
spondence. -- State of the Country. --Observations on the Character of Fox.
-- Mr. Pitt re-elected M.P. for the University of Cambridge.

              AJ). 1791. jETAT. 41.

Thk intervals of leisure which, in the spring of the year 1791,

Mr. Milner's various duties as president of a college and a

public lecturer allowed him, seem to have been principally em

ployed in mechanical and philosophical pursuits. This appears

               his letters.            Thus, on the           of April,
                                     have been here           for some
              Lodge, "
Ifrom several passages in                            29th
                                                     now
he writes from Queen's
weeks working exceedingly hard -- for working agrees very well
with me, when the weather is not too hot -- it amuses, and it tends

to lessen nervosities, and to dull pain, &c, &c, and I see plainly
Ithat must reckon upon being an invalid ;" and again, to ano
Ither friend, " In good truth there is scarce a day passes, but

think of you many times ; and this without any manner of com

pliment ; for there is constantly rising either some new difficulty,

or I want some new tool, or some instruction how to use the tools
I have ; insomuch, that were an intelligent adviser at hand, I

feel the      comfort of him      to a very great
Ludlam,                          a great dabbler
Ishould        " have been                         degree." Again,
                                                   in air-pumps, and
to Mr.
Ihave spent a great deal of money on them.
                                                   have now one by

me, which cost 60/. and upwards, exclusive of the apparatus --

and yet they  are all defective, at  least  when compared and mea      I
sured by my                                 reading over this letter,
              fancies." * *          " On

am quite ashamed of the trouble I give you: but they are hobby

horses, and there is no saying what lengths a man will not go, to

gratify himself in such cases."
                 CHAP. VI. A.D. 1791. JETAT. 41.                                            71

In accordance with his usual custom, Mr. Milner passed the

summer of this year with his aged mother, his brother, and his

other relatives, at Hull. The commencement of the Cambridge

term called him to college at the usual time ; and, in the month

of December, he was nominated to the dignified station of Dean

of Carlisle, vacant by the recent death of Dr. Ekins.

    For this preferment he was chiefly indebted to the active
indness of his friend, Dr. Pretyman*, Bishop of Lincoln; who

before his elevation to the episcopal bench, had been tutor to
             le"tteTrhedabteisdho"pH,"ulwl,riDteescemMbr.er
Mr. Pitt.                                                    Milner to Mr. Wilber-
                                                              3d, 1791," "espoused
force, in a

my cause with such a glow of friendship as is never to be for
                 csohmorfot rthaeblesaiidnc'ohmee/sh"ouldMrn. eMveirlnererstprtoiclleehdes
gotten.  in  In                                                                             saw me
settled                                                                                      to say,
              a

that, in consequence of the Bishop of Lincoln's representations

to Mr. Pitt, he had himself received, from the prime minister,

" a most handsome and substantial letter," informing him, that

he had been recommended to his Majesty for the vacant deanery

of Carlisle.

In the midst of the brilliant prospects which now appeared

to open upon Mr. Milner, promoted as he was to the high situa

tions of President of Queen's College and Dean of Carlisle, he

was at this time suffering, besides bodily indisposition, very-

great distress of mind, on account of the dangerous illness of

his revered and dearly-beloved brother. The following extract
from a letter addressed by him to his friend, Mr. Hey, on the

28th November, 1791, exhibits, in so true and strong a light, the
exquisite tenderness of his heart -- a quality often quite unobserved

by persons who saw and knew him only in the ordinary inter
course of society -- that, although certainly written in the most

unrestrained confidence, it may be here, properly, inserted.
     Speaking of his brother's illness, Mr. Milner thus expresses

himself :

    " My heart is almost broken : I neither eat nor sleep ; and
unless it please God to enable me to submit more calmly, I shall,

assuredly, be overset. My dear friend, you are a father, and

                 * Afterwards Dr. Tomline.
72 CHAP. VI. AD. 1791. /ETAT. 41.

know how to feel tenderly -- Oh ! my dear and only brother !
who bast comforted me so often in my sufferings I * * * *

The last time I saw him, I told hini, I saw plainly, that I had

not learned to submit to God's dispensations ; he said, ' The

thing is, Isaac, you don't make God your summum bonum.' "

This extract surely displays, in a most affecting manner, the

tender love of Mr. Milner towards his brother Joseph, and the

anxiety of that brother, in the midst of his own affliction, to

confirm in Isaac, a practical acquaintance with those Christian

principles which alone can produce true resignation to the will

of God, and consequent calmness under the most painful dispen

sations of his providence.

    The following entry appears in Mr. Wilberforce's Diary,
December 13th, 1791 : " Received a most affecting letter from

Milner about his brother."

    Of this " most affecting letter," dated " Hull, December 3d,

1791," we have seen, that the first part related to Mr. Milner's

presentation to the deanery of Carlisle.

After expressing, in that letter, his fears that some "journeys
                            b"ene"censeseadryful,byoranadt
and ceremonies," would be                                   by ;"  and that
                                                            least  proper,"
" a doctor's degree" would

Mr. Milner quits the subject of his new appointment, and turns

to one much nearer to his heart. He proceeds thus :
     " My health has suffered very severely by the bitterest afflic

tion I ever experienced in my life. My brother was seized, a fort

night ago, with a fever, pleurisy, and spitting of blood. All this,

added to his naturally asthmatical state, put his life, for some

days, in the most imminent danger. I consider his situation as
still critical, though the disease ceases to be called acute. I hope

God will be gracious, and permit his continuance a little longer

Iwith us; but verily believe, his lungs are so much impaired, that

he will never be able to do business again. The fact is, he is worn

out with labouring in the best of causes : he never could be indu

ced to spend a moment idle. I never saw his equal in that res
pect; and I have long wished to see him relieved from a load of
business, particularly the school-teaching ; (you may remember I

mentioned this to you, as well as my fears concerning him, many

vears ago,) and I have wished for it with much greater earnest
              CHAP. VI. AD. 1791. JETAT. 41.

ness than ever I did any thing for myself. My fear now that
                     if
                                            I

                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                   is,
                                                                                          is
preaching at High Church* will be too much for him but this

must be considered,  he should recover. At present he

confined to his chamber, and likely to continue there.

    " You know the terms my brother and have lived on, from

infancy. You must also be aware of the great comfort he has

been to me, as an affectionate friend and faithful adviser, during

my long illness. Judge, my dear friend, what must have felt
                                        I
on the prospect of seeing him snatched away. My aged motherI

so afflicted, that,  *                             IIin short, without the positive
is                        '*

    I if                      *
interference of God's all-supporting hand, must inevitably have*

sunk,    the prospect had still darkened.              applied at the
        never felt thus on my own account.
    "

throne of grace, with all the steadiness and fervour                                    could
                                                       I
                                                         is, I
muster but told my brother, that saw plainly, had not
       ;      I

learned to submit to the Divine will. 'The thing                                        Isaac,'

said he, when at worst, you don't make God your summum

bonum.' Oh my dear friend, the views of religion concerning
              !

               I
which you and have so often conversed, are the only ones that

can help in time of need. May God, of his infinite mercy, grant

that you and may truly and practically become acquainted with
              II
                                  is
                                                                      it

                                                                       I.
them. How necessary the rod of correction!             leads to self-

examination.      remember you always affectionately.                                   M."

    The admonition of Joseph Milner to his brother, " Isaac,

you don't make God your summum bonum," which seems to have

made deep impression upon that brother's mind, here men

tioned to Mr. Wilberforce, in almost the same terms which Mr.
Milner had employed in his letter to Mr. Hey, of the preceding

November.

     With regard to Mr. Milner's promotion to the deanery of
Carlisle, has been insinuated by one of the numerous biogra
phers of the late Dr. Paleyt, that that eminent man felt some
degree of jealousy and dissatisfaction upon the appointment.
       a
                                                                                    is

          it

· The church of the Holy Trinity, at Hull, where Mr. Joseph Milner was, at
        this time, afternoon lecturer, was commonly called High Church,
                                           Meadley.
                     t
74 CHAP. VI. A.D. 1791. JETAX 41.

Nothing, apparently, can be further from the truth. " So far was
he," says his son, the Rev. Edmund Paley, "from suspecting,
much less from being conscious, that Dr. Milner was preferred

before himself, that he came into his house one day much
delighted with the news being announced of their new dean, as
it opened a prospect of their having so eminent a man amongst
them. He said, he could not have been better pleased, except
it had been himself."

     The following very friendly letters from Dr. Paley to the
dean, are in perfect accordance with this statement.

"To the Very Reverend the Dean of Carlisle.
                                    " Carlisle, December 18M, 1791.
I"Sir,
                        hope will have expressed to you my con
    " Mr. Carlyle

gratulations, and, what is of much more value, the general satis

faction with which your appointment is received here. You may
Idepend upon it that
                                 shall in every thing have pleasure in

endeavouring to render your situation as easy and agreeable to

you  as  it is  in  my  pow"eIr  to do.
                                 am, Sir,
     " With great regard, your faithful and obedient servant,
                                                          "W. Paley."

     Mr. Milner was formally appointed to the Deanery of
Carlisle on the 30th day of January, 1792; but being pre

vented by illness from being installed in his new dignity in
person, the ceremony of installation was, with the consent of the
bishop*, who had himself been consecrated to the See of Carlisle

during the same year, performed by proxy.

     On this occasion, Dr. Paley wrote to the dean as follows:

" Dear Sir,                                " Carlisle, Feb. 3rd, 1 792.
" The installation of your proxy was performed yesterday with

due gravity. This ceremony completes your possession of the

Deanery of Carlisle, in which I sincerely wish you every possible

satisfaction.

                    The present Lord Archbishop of York.
CHAP. VI. A.D. 1792. AST AT. 42.  75

     " 1 should have been happy to have received a more favour
able account of your health. Preferment is reckoned a wholesome

Ithing; and hope you will find it so.

                    " 1 remain, dear Sir,
                            " Your faithful and obedient servant,

                                                          "W. Paley."

     In a letter of nearly the same date, Dr. Paley thus writes to
a friend: "We have got a new dean, a great friend of Mr.
Sheepshanks and Mr. Carlyle, and a man of great reputation, so
that the appointment gives us great satisfaction." Dr. Paley left
Carlisle about three years after the appointment of Mr. Milner to
the deanery. So that, as Mr. Edmund Paley, in his life of his

father, observes, these eminent men had not much opportunity
of forming a very intimate acquaintance. They met, however,
frequently, both in public and in private; and, in particular, the

dean is said to have occasionally attended a meeting consisting
of a few literary men, who assembled alternately, on the Sunday
evenings, at each other's residences, for the purpose of discuss

ing, in an easy" way, such religious subjects as circumstances

might suggest.

    It is impossible to read the congratulatory letters, at this

period addressed to Dean Milner, without at the same time

commiserating his afflicted condition both of body and mind.
     Two distinguishing characteristics were, however, observable,

throughout the whole of Dr. Milner's life. Bodily suffering did
not diminish the energy of his mind; and he was ever ready,

whatever might be his own position, or circumstances, to sym
pathize with, and to assist his friends.

     Mr. Wilberforce was, at this time, actively engaged in the
great cause of the slave-trade abolition; and his efforts were

constantly encouraged by the solid and well-directed advice of
Dean Milner.

     The revolutionary spirit which was, at this period, raging in
France, had, in some measure, infected our own country; and, as it
could not be denied, that among the friends of abolition, there

were some who held revolutionary opinions, many supporters of

the slave trade took an unfair advantage of this circumstance, by
76 CHAP. VI. A.D. 1792. jETAT. 42.

branding with the name of Jacobin every friend of the abolition

cause.

     Upon this subject Dean Milner thus wrote to Mr. Wilber-

force:         * * would tell             you,  that he had had a long
                                          him   better health and better
    " **      with me. I wish

conversation

notions in politics: no government can stand on such principles
Ias he appeals to and maintains.
I

                                                    is
                                                                               a

                                                                                    it,
                                                                                                            is
                                          am very sorry for  because

see plainly that advantage              taken of such cases as his, in

order to represent the friends of abolition as levellers. This
not the only case where the converse of proposition* does not
hold. Levellers certainly are friends of abolition."

     Early in the month of April, the dean, who had constantly

stirred up his friend to continued exertions in the slave-trade
cause, again wrote to him in the following terms, on the occasion
of his having carried his motion for the gradual abolition of that

detestable traffic.

   "I thought of you most unremittingly the whole day of

April 2nd, and good deal of the night; which, to me, was
                  a                                                 a

very restless one.    Ibless God, and surely you have great

                                  a it
reason to be thankful, that pleases Him to endow you with so

much bodily energy, that you are able to exert your talents so

steadily, and for so long               time, on such great occasions.

Greater occasions can hardly ever occur, and think there can
                                                    I

be no doubt but you have gained some" ground; though find
many people think otherwise. On the first view thought so
too, but on reading the debates am satisfied that much ground
* is                                                   I
     *                                                        is I
           *
                *

                                       I
   gained, as far as respects public opinion; the opposers are
plainly overawed and ashamed. The worst circumstance thisis

                      Nobody thinks well of him. Duplicity and artifice
are esteemed parts of his character; he judged to do what he

does, unwillingly, and with design, in the worst sense. Ne

graveris upon my making these observations on him.                  know
                                                             is

                                                                aI
he says, you have as pure heart as ever inhabited a human
                           a

breast. Such things you can withstand, but there                  stream

    * It is, perhaps, needless to observe, that, the expression convene of a pro-

position, intended strictly as a logical term, is, in this passage, incorrectly used.
if
CHAP. VJ. A.D. 179?. JET AT. 42.                    h-

                                                    //

of more delicate applause, which is likely to have more effect,
and against which it is more difficult to guard."

     On the 23rd of this month, Mr. Dundas brought forward his
resolutions for a gradual abolition. " After a hard struggle," as
Mr. Wilberforce writes, he and his friends succeeded in fixing
the period of the abolition for January 1st, 1796, Mr. Dundas
having proposed 1800. On this occasion, Dean Milner wrote to
Mr. Wilberforce in the following terms of encouragement and

congratulation.

    "Not long ago I had no expectation of success respecting

the slave trade; then again, you seemed to be carrying every
thing; and now, we are down in the mouth again, both because

four years are allowed, and because there seems the greatest
danger from the House of Lords. However, you have great
reason to be thankful, for God seems to bless your labours;

Iand, as remember I told you long ago, if you carry this point

in your whole life, that life will be far better spent than in being

prime minister many years."

     In the summer of this year, Dean Milner proceeded to the
degree of Doctor in Divinity, and spent, as was his custom,
some part of the long vacation with his relatives at Hull. During
all such visits he frequently took occasion to look in upon the
school where he had formerly been usher; and, as a still survi
ving pupil of Joseph Milner* bears witness, "he was always
a great favourite with the boys, teaching and conversing with

them in a pleasant affable manner."

     Of this particular visit of Dr. Milner to Hull, a hint is given
by his brother Joseph, in a letter which is so characteristic,

that its insertion here may be pardoned.

"To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.

" Dear Still.,                  suspect    " Hull, Aug. 26th, 1792.

    " I begin to fear you will           something of me as want

ing in kindness, by my not sooner answering your letter. I hope
I scarce need to say, the delay was by no means owing to any
diminution of regard. I am sure I have no reason. May our

* The Rev. Mr. Brouiby, the present Vicar of Hull.
                       CHAP. VI. A.D. 1792. JETAT. 42.

friendship only be cemented and sweetened with more of the mind
that is in Chijst Jesus, and partake more of his Spirit ! * * *

    " I would adore the providence of God which tenderly pre

served you, in your danger by the little Welsh horse. Pray ride

the ill-natured beast no more. We are not sufficiently thankful
Ifor such interpositions.
                           had one myself, of another kind.

While I was at Carlisle, some wanton fellows, with more bold

ness than wit, brake into my school one night; and though a desk
with my history, sermons, &c, happened to be there, unlocked,

they did no harm to them. They only threw some books about,
&c, and though they tore some leaves out of the school Ains-

worth, they only tore out the part which contains bad Latin. So

fond was Bacchus, it seems, of good Latinity. One would have
thought that Horace himself, in some of his ' Io Bacche' moods,

had done and in the midst of his revelling still preserved his
              it,
tenderness for     isclassical purity.  so                                  Isaac.  As to myself,
                       much the same
    " Mother           I                                                            I
                                            ;                                               I
                                                is
have reason to be thankful for the improvement of my health by

the Carlisle jpurney.  sent my sentiments to Beverley, with

equal strength and sincerity, about the address, though like to

avoid dinners in public. Alas worldly company neither suits
                       I
my body nor my soul.
                                  it !

                                               I
                       feel needful to watch and pray, that

I  may have a little spiritual strength before go hence, and be

no more seen.

                       "My kind love to Mrs. Still., &c,
                                        " Always yours,
                                               "Joseph Milner."

    Towards the close of this year, Dr. Milner was elected to
the office of Vice-Chancellor of the University. Before, how
ever, proceeding to the account of his Vice-Chancellorship,

which was distinguished by some very remarkable occurrences,
   will be proper to introduce, from letter to William Hey,

Esq., of Leeds, a few extracts, which may tend to place in its
true light part of Dr. Milner's conduct, which has been some
times animadverted upon with much illiberality.
it

                      a
                                                                         a
             CHAP. VI. A.D. 17U2. /ETAT. 42.                               79

" Dear Sir,                    " Hull, September 22nd, 1 792.

"There is nothing which for a long time has been more
Iupon my mind, and which
                               have more ardently wished for,

than to be able to attend divine service. Not only the general

reasons make this an object to me, but also some additional

reasons peculiar to  my circumstances.              that,  as Master       of
                     it is exceedingly desirable,
    " For example,

Queen's College, 1 should be able, along with the College, to be

present at daily prayers, in our private chapel. I always used

to be a regular attendant.

   "2ndly. It is equally desirable that I should attend the

Cathedral at Carlisle during my residence there in the summer.

    "Srdly. It is not improbable, but that, next November,

I may be elected Vice-Chancellor ; and then, I ought to attend

St. Mary's twice every Sunday, and also the congregations

in the Senate-House.

    "Yet I have never been able to attend divine service at

any one of these places, since my illness in March, 1789,
without very great injury; nor do I wonder much at
                                                        I                  con

                                                                      it,
sidering the nature of the paroxysms to which am subject."

     Here follows an account of the writer's indisposition, whicha
appears to have been of an aguish nature; of his sometimes

" falling to work, and working for hours with file, harder than

any smith in the town," for the purpose of "acquiring heat,"

and, at other times, of his being unable " to walk a few times

across the room," without being "bathed in immoderate per

spiration."

"HeFropmrocseuecdhs  thus
                     accounts
                     I                          to      former
                               :

                                             a

                                                          I
                               as these, added      my          accounts,

judge you, whether, under these circumstances,                  ought to

attempt, in case should be elected Vice-Chancellor to sit

motionless twice in a day, in cold church, in the month of

November.

    "Dr. Jowett* has kindly undertaken to attempt either

* Dr. Jowett, already mentioned as one of Dr. Milner'a earliest and most
          valued friends, was at this time staying with him at Hull.
80 CHAP. VI. A.D. 1792. JETAT. 42.

to get me totally excused, or to effect some arrangement that

will make the matter easier to me.

    "One or more certificates of my situation from medical

gentlemen, will be useful. If you think you can properly give
Ime one, shall be obliged to you to do so. Dr. Jowett will

explain to you   what sort of a certificate  is necessary.   is  most
                 no account to be given      of me but what
    " I request

strictly true. But the points that are to be particularly cleared

up are these :

"1st. That this complaint is not of that class which is

properly called nervous or hypochondriacal, and in which

business, and plenty of exercise in the open air, is recom

mended. Yet I do not wonder that such an idea has gone

forth respecting me ; because I now look well, and am always
/in good spirits when I do appear in public. This idea cannot be
done away with, by anything         can say ; and is only to be

opposed by professional opinions.
     " 2dly. The other fact to be insisted upon, and
set forth, is, my incapacity for bearing the open air,       clearly
                                                             or the
*****air of rooms not constantly warmed by fires.

My present state is certainly a complication ; viz., the relics of

a severe ague, combined with a constitutional affection of twenty

years' standing. This affection you have seen a great deal of

in my case ; and you know, nobody was more active than I was,
or used more exercise in the open air, of various kinds. I rode
on horseback as long as I could, and every morning before
breakfast, and in all weathers. Afterwards, I got into a phaeton,

&c.

    " The other part of my complaint, viz., the aguish affection,

you have not seen so much of; yet you have heard of me from

others, and, I think from Dr. B     , who once told me, that he

had conversed with you particularly, concerning this peculiar

incapacity of bearing the open air.

    "You are to put these things together, and to judge for

yourself whether you can certify what you believe to be my

case ; and in such a way as to enforce the truth, and thereby

undo any conception of this sort ; viz., that I only want resolu
               CHAP. VI. A.D. 17<I2. JETAT. 42.                                                                                  SI

tion to go out, and, that any office that obliged "me to go out,

would do me good.       " I am

" To                 Esq."      affectionately  y"ouIrssa, ac

      William  Hey,                                            Milner."

     Every candid person must feel the force of this letter ; to
which Mr. Hey returned the following answer : --

" Dear Sir,                     "Leeds, October 6th, 1792,

                                                Friday.
" I have inclosed a letter to you, which is to serve the pur

pose of a certificate for you, to warrant your refusal to accept

the office of V. C, an office which I think you ought by no means

to accept, in your present indisposition.

    " I have written what I think to be true ; and I think it not

impossible that you may, at some future time, be able to fulfil the

duties of that important and honourable office.

                           " I am your affectio"naWteilflriiaenmd, Hey."

     By a physician resident in the town of Hull, Dr. Milner
was furnished with another certificate, setting forth, that from
the writer's "own knowledge," he (Dr. M.), "was unable to

bear the open air, though by no means deficient in resolute

endeavours to get out as often as possible."
     In a work purporting to be a Life of Dean Milner, it would

be improper to omit all notice of this subject, and although what

has been already said can scarcely be otherwise than satisfactory
to every unprejudiced mind, it may be advisable to quote from
a work published by Dr. Milner*, a passage directly bearing
upon the point in question.

     After stating, that when elected vice-chancellor, for the first

time, more than twenty years previous to the time then present,

three physicians and one or two surgeons had subscribed a report
on the nature of his bodily complaints, for the inspection of the
heads of colleges, in consequence of which report they under
took to divide among themselves almost all that part of the Vice-

      * Strictures on some of the Publications of the Rev. Herbert Marsh.

                                                                                                                              G
         CHAP. VI. A.D. 1792. .STAT. 42.

Chancellor's duties which required him to leave his room, Dr.
                           thus :--
Miln"eAr tpprorceeseendts                   supported  by large doses of the
                           I am absolutely

most powerful medicines, repeated several times every day ; and

Ialthough am thereby enabled to make considerable exertions
Iat home, can rarely stir out, for any length of time, with safety,

and seldom do stir out, without suffering very considerable incon

venience.

   I" am not sorry, that, among the many disagreeable circum

stances unavoidable in a controversy of this sort, a fair occasion

has been afforded me of explaining certain peculiarities in my

own conduct, the reasons of which, though well understood by

my friends and familiars, for many years past, have, neverthe

less, sometimes furnished a handle to the uncandid for misre
Ipresentations of various kinds.
                                            rest assured-<that no conside

rate person will expect me to be more explicit in this matter."

Of Dr. Milner's rational and enlightened piety, many evi

dences appear in the course of his correspondence, during this

year. Thus, in the month of October, Mr. Wilberforce having

Ifexpressed to him his

in holiness, the dean
                           earnest desires   after a   more     rapid  growth
                                                 you   have     truly  learned
                           thus replied : "

to feel the insufficiency of your own powers, you have made

more progress than you think of ; and if you can support that

         a

                            it,
                                                                                         is
feeling, and act upon      for any time together, your advance

very considerable*."

Numerous other passages might be quoted from various let

ters, with similar view.
     In the month of November, 1792, Dr. Milner was elected

Vice-Chancellor, and, in consideration to the assistance proffered
to him by the other heads of colleges, accepted that important

office.

The peculiar circumstances which, on this occasion, rendered

the vice-chancellorship at Cambridge unusually onerous, will be
related in the next chapter.

     The political prospects with which this year closed were
rapidly darkening. The democratical excitement which raged

                           · Lift of William Wilbtrforet, Etq.
CHAP. VI. A.D. 1/92. jBTAT. 42.                           83

in a neighbouring country had, in an alarming degree, tainted

the English population ; and the northern counties had by no

means escaped the virulent infection.

     Early in December, Dr. Milner thus wrote to Mr. Wilber-
force: --

    " At Carlisle we had many reports concerning tumults and

sedition, and the affair seemed to be of considerable magnitude.

Some few gentlemen, I understand, are disposed to favour

French principles ; Mr.          has considerable influence in pro

moting this sort of work by his conversation, which has a strong

tendency to destroy all subordination, and to bring rulers, of

every description, into contempt. He is naturally very good-

tempered, and my stay there was short. These two circumstances
Ialone prevented our coming to a rupture.
                                            have given myself

little or no concern about politics, for years ; but of late, the

aspect has been so black, that I could not help attending to our

Ifutu"reSuppropsopseincgts,with
Fox   some anxiety.                    it well,  at this  critical
      to oppose, think

moment, that he has gone so far. There is scarce one of his old

friends here at Cambridge, who is not disposed to give him up ;
Iand most say, that he is mad.   think of him much as I always
did : I still doubt whether he has bad principles, but I think it
Ipretty plain, that he has none ; and suppose he is ready for

whatever turns up. The tide at present seems setting strongly
                                                 I believe this
in support of government, among all ranks.

arises, in great measure, from the alarm of the moment; and

Iwhen that is over, or abates, fear the democratic principles

will be found to have firmer roots."

     The University annals for the year 1792 close with the
re-election of Mr. Pitt, as its representative in parliament.

The critical position, however, of public affairs, at this period,
prevented Mr. Pitt, as he wrote to Dr. Milner, from being

present on the day of election.
                      84

                      CHAPTER VII.

Socinian principles in the University. -- Mr. Frend. -- His Seditious Pamphlet.
--Meeting of the Masters and Fellows of Jesus College. -- Care of the Vice-
Chancellor to procure the best Legal advice. --Meeting of the "Twenty-
                       Lodge.-- Determination
Seven," at   Queen's  Vice-Chancellor's Court  to institute, against Mr. Frend
proceedings   in the                             Citation of Mr. Frend. --His

Trial.-- Sentence of Banishment from the University pronounced upon him
by the Vice-Chancellor. -- Mr. Frend appeals to the Senate. -- Confirmation of

the Sentence of the Vice-Chancellor, pronounced by the Court of Delegates.
-- Firmness of Dr. Milner. -- His unflinching attachment to the Doctrines
of the Established Church. -- Notice of Mr. Frend's trial by Professor
Smyth.-- Dr. Milner's Speech at the conclusion of the Trial. -- Address to
the Undergraduates. --Impressive style of his eloquence. --Visit of Joseph
Milner to his Brother at Cambridge. -- Mr. Simeon. -- State of Religion. --
Dr. Milner takes formal possession of the Deanery of Carlisle. -- Remark

able Dream.           A.D. 1793. jETAT. 43.

The occurrences which distinguished and rendered peculiarly
responsible the vice-chancellorship of Dr. Milner, were the trial
and expulsion from the University of Cambridge, of William
Frend, A.M. and Fellow of Jesus College.

     During some years past, a party of men in the University,
entertaining Socinian principles, had been endeavouring to
propagate their pernicious doctrines. Although professing them
selves members, and being, in some cases, clergymen of the
church of England, and as such, having subscribed to her
Articles, these persons, a leader among whom was Mr. Frend,

did not hesitate to attempt to subvert the faith to which they

were thus solemnly pledged. Mr. Frend went so far as to publish
and circulate within the precincts of the University, a pamphlet,
of so obnoxious a character, that the Vice-Chancellor was called

upon to exert the authority entrusted to him, for the suppression
of conduct so flagrant.

     Of the judicial proceedings in this remarkable trial--a trial

protracted, by the artifices of the defendant, to the utmost
possible length -- and of the circumstances which led to those
proceedings, a very brief account may here be sufficient.

     Mr. Frend having published and circulated within the
CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. jETAT. 43.              85

University an irreligious and seditious pamphlet, entitled Peace

and Union recommended to the associated bodies of Republicans

and Anti-Republicans, a meeting, consisting of the master of
the college and the major part of the resident fellows, was held
at Jesus Lodge on the 22nd of February, 1793, and the follow
ing resolution drawn up : --

    " Resolved, That a pamphlet, entitled Peace and Union, fyc.
lately published by W. Frend, A.M., Fellow of this college,

appears to us to have been written with the evil intent of pre
judicing the clergy in the eyes of the laity, of degrading in
the public esteem the doctrines and rites of the Established
Church, and of disturbing the harmony of society. And, that,
as we feel it to be our particular duty to disavow principles
calculated to mislead the minds of young men entrusted to
our care, a copy of the said pamphlet be sent both to the
Vice-Chancellor of the University, and to the Visitor of the
College, inclosed in a letter to each, expressing our disapproba
tion of the opinions therein delivered, and humbly requesting

********them to take such measures as, in their judgment, may appear

most proper for the effectual suppression of their dangerous

tendency."
      Here follow the signatures.

Of the exertions used by Dr. Milner to procure, with respect

to every part of this important transaction, the very best advice,

the numerous letters which still exist, from the most eminent

legal authorities of the day, afford sufficient evidence. In this

affair, as in every other the conduct of which was committed to

him, Dr. Milner spared no labour which might qualify him to

perform, in the best possible manner, the duty required of him.

On the 4th of March, 1793, a meeting, composed of the

persons who had signed the Resolution already recorded, and

of other members of the Senate, amounting in all to the number

of twenty-seven, took place at the Vice-Chancellor's Lodge at

Queen's ; and by this meeting -- the members  ocof m"ptohseingTwwenhitcyh-
were known in the University by the name
seven" --it was determined, that proceedings against Mr. Frend

should be instituted in" the Vice-Chancellor's Court. On the
86 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. -BTAT. i3.

23rd of April a citation was accordingly served upon William
Frend summoning him to appear before the Vice-Chancellor at
his next court, to be held on the 3rd day of the May next

following, then and there to answer to the accusation preferred
against him of having violated the statutes of the University,
by the publication and dispersion, within its precincts, of the
pamphlet entitled Peace and Union.

     Mr. Frend appeared, as summoned ; and after a full, delibe
rate, and impartial trial was convicted of the charge brought
against him. He refused to retract or confess his error, and
sentence was consequently pronounced upon him by the Viee-
Chancellor, on the 13th day of May, in the following terms :--

" I, Isaac Milner, D.D., Vice-Chancellor of the University

of Cambridge, do decree and pronounce, that William Frend,

Master of Arts, and Fellow of Jesus College, having offended
against the statute ' de Concionibus, ftc.,' by writing a pamphlet,

entitled Peace and Union, &c, and by publishing the same

within the University of Cambridge, and having refused to retract

and confess his error and temerity, in the manner prescribed to

him by me the Vice-Chancellor, with the assent of the major part

of the Heads of Colleges, has incurred the penalty of the statute,

and that  he is therefore  banished from   this University.
            (Signed)
                                " Isaac   Milner, V. C,      &c.  &c."

     From this decision, Mr. Frend appealed to the Senate ; but
Dr. Milner, acting with his accustomed prudence and foresight,
had not pronounced judgment, without first, as has been already
intimated, availing himself of the best advice which could be

obtained. The highest legal authorities had concurred in his
view of the meaning of the particular statutes against which
Mr. Frend had offended; the sentence pronounced by the
Vice-Chancellor was confirmed by the Court of Delegates, and

the offender was compelled to quit the University.

    It is almost needless to say, that both at the time and after

wards, Dr. Milner was, in some quarters, much censured for the

decided and conscientious part which he had acted; but his

conduct upon this occasion commanded the universal approba
tion of all the friends of religion and social order.
CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. JETAT. 43.                                                     87

    A full and impartial account of the trial of William Frend

Ihas, so far as know, never been given to the public ; the only

published narrative of that affair being written by the defendant,
and disfigured by much misrepresentation. It
a                                                   however,
                              a
                                                           a
                                                                                         ; a is,

                                                                                                                        a
evident, even from Mr. Frend's imperfect, and, in many respects,

unfair, representation of his own cause, that the University had

abundant reason to rejoice, that the office of Vice-Chancellor

was, at this juncture, filled by man equal to the arduous and

important occasion. The French Revolution was at its height
-- Jacobinical principles had infected England to a fearful
degree-- and, even in the University of Cambridge,
                                                           party of

Socinians, holding republican opinions, were resolutely prepared
to go all lengths with Mr. Frend.

    Dr. Milner had deeply studied the subject at issue and he

was, moreover, man of immoveable firmness of mind. It has

been already intimated that, while yet an undergraduate, and at

time when unflinching attachment to the doctrines of the

Establishment was supposed to be far from popular among the

leading members of his college, he had, at the imminent hazard

of all his prospects of worldly advancement, refused to join in

petition against subscription to the Articles of the National
Church. His conviction of the truth and importance of the

principles by which he had been then actuated, had continually

increased in strength, and he was therefore, fully prepared to

endure any reproach, or any ridicule, which a steady adherence to

those principles might now bring upon him. And when, in after

life, he was led to refer to his conduct upon the occasion of Mr.

Frend's trial, he seldom quitted the subject without expressing

his grateful satisfaction, on review of the part which he had, at
*
                 ;

                                          a
                                                                           a

                                                                              '
                                                                                 it
that time, been enabled to sustain*.

Of Mr. Frend's trial, Professor Smyth, whose recollections
"Ihave already enriched this memoir, thus speaks:
                                                   remember Mr.

Borlase, the Registrar at the time, observing to me, that                            was

very well for the University that Dr. Milner was Vice-Chancellor

at that time that he shewed great ability, and often addressed

the audience, and the undergraduates, in  most impressive

manner.' "

Sec a Letter written by Dr. Milner in the year 1798. Chap. ix.
88 . GHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. /ETAT. 43.

    The following speech was delivered by Dr. Milner, in the
Senate House, at Cambridge, at the conclusion of this memor
able trial: --

    "When the University, in the month of November last,

Ielected me Vice-Chancellor, acquiesced in their determination

with much diffidence and anxiety. The discharge of the ordi

nary duties of this important office seemed incompatible with
my indifferent state of health ; and if any unforeseen trouble or

Idifficulty should arise in the course of the year, considered

myself as utterly unfit for the management and direction of it ;

Iand foresaw, that while the remains of my health might pro

bably be wasted in a diligent and conscientious attempt to do

the best in my power, my mind would also be agitated with this

painful reflection, viz.: that the dignity of the office of Vice-Chan

cellor might suffer, and the discipline and general interests of the

Univ"eBrsuittythmouigghht  be essentially  injured, through my incapacity.
                           apprehensions    of this sort were naturally sug
Igested by the circumstances, still cherished a secret hope, that

our academical pursuits of learning and science might, for the

present year, go on smoothly and without interruption, and our

tranquillity be disturbed by no odious or troublesome investiga

tion of the causes of irregularity or riot.

    " Little did I then imagine, that in the very short space of

four months, so refreshing a hope was entirely to vanish, and

that I should be loudly called upon, publicly to animadvert, not

upon the rash and intemperate sallies of an inexperienced youth,

but upon the premeditated and offensive conduct of a gentleman,

Iwith whom had myself long been acquainted, whose standing

in the University was very considerable, and for whose talents
     attainments I
and  " Improbable,         entertain   the most   sincere   respect.
                           however,   as such an   event   might be,
                                                                      it  actually

took place, and nothing remained for the Vice-Chancellor but

the painful task of investigating the nature of the offence com

mitted, and the punishment assigned by the laws of the Univer

sity; and of publicly explaining both, in the most open and

perspicuous manner in his power.

     " On such an occasion, the situation of the judge of this
CHAP. VII. A.D. 1783. ^TAT. 43.                                  89

court is not to be envied. Our times, whatever be the offence,

are singularly unfavourable to the enforcement of rigid discipline ;

and in regard to the degrading and vilifying of establishments,

either of church or state, it is scarcely supposed possible, by many

persons, that an offence can be committed. Produce existing

laws against such practices, and you are told, such laws ought

never to have been made -- they are a disgrace to the country --

they are obsolete -- and, perhaps, that you dare not enforce them.

Others, with more temper and plausibility, admit that offences,

like the present, are highly blamable in themselves, and that if

you could confine your punishments to such gross and indecent

examples, there would be no room for complaint; but, say they,

when you have once begun to inflict penalties for the propaga

tion of opinions, there will be no bounds to the operation of

such laws ; unfair advantages will be taken by men of captious

and arbitrary principles; the most inoffensive and laudable

endeavours after improvement will be stifled; not a syllable

must be uttered against what has once been established ; the

slightest objections, or hints at amendments, either of our reli

gious or political establishments, will be construed into a

conspiracy against government ; there is an end of the exercise

of our faculties, in the dispassionate inquiry after, and investiga
tion of truth. Then the parties cry out, ' Persecution ! tyranny

over the conscience! no freedom of discussion!' and thus, under

the fair disguise of moderation and liberality of sentiment, the

clamours of the ignorant or the disaffected are to be now an

answer to every sober argument that can be advanced in favour

of the most sacred and venerable institutions that are to be

found in the history of mankind !

    " It is true, indeed, that such popular and delusive clamours

can produce no conviction of the judgment of thinking persons;

but it is no less true, that they too frequently influence our

practice. The soundest mental constitution is never wholly

secure against the contagion of opinion; and, therefore, the

                                          a is,
                                                              a
safest rule in all these difficult cases  to turn deaf ear to

every argument or suggestion that has tendency to draw the

mind from the direct contemplation of the point in question,
and to pay not the least regard either to those who cry out
90 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. JETAT. 43.

' tyranny' and 'persecution/ or to those who cry out ' sedition'
and ' heresy.'
                                               I entered upon the
    "With such views and impressions,

investigation of this unpleasant affair. It is a cause of the

greatest importance. A bold and indecent attack has been

made upon the religious institutions of the country: the statutes

of this University have been openly violated; and if an offence
Iof this magnitude be suffered to pass unnoticed,
                                                   think the

Ivery"existence  of the University   may soon be endangered.
         do not  deny that cases of  libellous publications frequently

occur, in which it is much better to treat an impudent offender

with neglect and contempt, than to gratify the obscure and

deluded author, by bringing him forth into public notice, and

inflicting upon him that precise sort of martyrdom which he has

Ijustly deserved, and is absurdly anxious to suffer; but maintain

on the present occasion, that the case of Mr. Frend is separated

and distinguished, by peculiar circumstances, from that class of

offences, which, from motives of discretion, it might be proper

to pass over in silence and contempt.

    "The author of this pamphlet is a person of considerable

standing in the University, and we are all of us ready to bear

testimony to his talents and attainments. He has been in the

important situation of a public tutor of a college: he resides a

good deal among us; and by his industry, his zeal, and his per

severance, he is well qualified to make impressions upon the

unsuspecting minds of youth. He is well known to have
objections to the established doctrines of the Church of England,

and if he be permitted thus to defame with impunity, the solemn

institutions of our religion, and the public functions of the clergy,

I am sure, that great advantage will be taken of such forbear

ance and lenity: our undergraduates will soon be taught to

insult the doctrines and ceremonies of the Church to which they

belong: they will believe them to be mere political contrivances;

they will conclude, that as we ourselves dare not support and

defend them, even when we have the law on our side, we also,

as well as others, are convinced, that they are indefensible by

reason ; and they will believe, that we are only induced to adhere
                                               Such, I think, is
to them from pusillanimity, or self-interest.
CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. JETAT. 43.                                   91

the natural inference which a sensible young man would draw

from the silence and indifference of the governing part of the

University, upon the   appearance of such a     pamphlet as this.  of
                       be told, that these are  mere speculations
    " I may, perhaps,

my fancy. I instantly repel the insinuation by affirming a well-

known fact, viz.: that a numerous and respectable body of this

University appear to have been influenced, in a great measure,

by sentiments of the same sort: for while I myself was hesitating,
whether, as Vice-Chancellor, I were not, ex officio, called upon,

by a flagrant breach of public decorum, to animadvert, in a sum

mary way, upon the author of this pamphlet, I was released from

doubt on this head, by the application of thirty-four members

of the Senate, most of them of distinguished reputation, who

requested the Vice-Chancellor to take cognizance of an offence,

which appeared to them dangerous in its tendency, and degrading

to the clergy of the Establishment. And here, I must say, in

justice to the laudable and zealous efforts of the respectable

Icharacters who stood forward on this occasion, that think it

impossible to conceive a business of this sort to have been con

ducted with less appearance of private animosity or resentment;

and I feel myself bound to declare, that in the application of no
one of these gentlemen could I discover the slightest trace of

a wish to injure or distress Mr. Frend. On the contrary, every

one explained the grounds of his application in the most distinct

and guarded manner, professing himself to be solely influenced by

a desire of maintaining the honour and credit of the University.

    "After having advanced so much respecting my own views

Iand the motives of others, suppose the minds of several who

hear me may be disposed to object to the inaptitude and

irrelevancy of these reflections, and to suggest the propriety of

proceeding directly to the consideration of the evidence, and to

the administration of the justice of the case.

    " I openly and freely acknowledge the force of this objection:
Iand if have introduced reflections which seem, in a degree,

foreign to the subject, it is only because great stress is frequently

laid upon such topics; and particularly by persons who affect
more than ordinary candour and liberality of sentiment; and in
order that arguments derived from such sources may have no
92 Cli.\I\ VII. A.D. 17U3. jET AT. 43.

Imore than their just weight and influence, have been tempted to

oppose this sort of reasoning, by counter-arguments of a similar

nature.

    " Having freely acknowledged so much, let us now seriously
and solemnly approach the cause itself. Let us hear no more of

'tyranny' and 'persecution' on the one hand, nor of 'heresy'

and 'sedition' on the other.
      "A grievous charge is brought against Mr. Frend; and, as
Judge of this Court, I find myself bound by the most solemn
Iobligations, to enforce the statutes of the University.
                                                            do not,

in the slightest degree, mean to insinuate that the 45th statute
is an unwholesome or impolitic law; but this I say, that, in my
Ipresent situation,
                          have nothing to do with explaining or
justifying the policy of that law -- I find it in existence, and I

am bound to execute it. Dr. Kipling, the promoter of this

cause, has produced no arguments to show that the offence

comes under any general sweeping clauses of the statutes, such

as that it is contra bonos mores, modestiam, or the like: on which

Iaccount feel myself much relieved from that embarrassment

which naturally attends a conscientious discharge of duty in a

case where much is left to the decision of the judge ; but he has

pointed out certain and particular statutes, which he affirms to

have been violated; and, therefore, in case of conviction, the

Court has no option. Now the conviction or acquittal of Mr.

Frend depends entirely upon the solution of two questions.

1st.   Is Mr. Frend the   author and publisher of this pamphlet?
                          we have not the slightest embarrassment
      " On this question
--we think, that Dr. Kipling has produced a great deal of

                              it
                                                 is is,
superfluous evidence. The 2nd question                   Does the pamphlet

contain matter by which the 45th statute violated?

    "We are all satisfied that does: nor has the eloquence of
Mr. Frend convinced us, that the most offensive passages in the

pamphlet do not apply and were not intended to apply to the

Church of England, as well as to the Church of Rome.

    " Then say, the Court has no option. Yet am willing to
      aI                                                 I

pause for a moment, and to consider what might be the conse

quences of supposed discretionary power in this Court.
     " Enumerate, then, the circumstances that should induce the
CHAP. VII. A.U. 1793. jETAT. 43.         93

Vice-Chancellor and his assessors to mitigate the penalties of

this statute; Did this pamphlet make its appearance at a time

when every well-wisher of his country entertained the most

serious apprehensions for its safety and tranquillity? Does the
oldest of us ever remember so general -- 1 had almost said so

universal-- a concurrence, and union of sentiment, in the best

characters of all parties, uniting to oppose the influence of

seditious meetings and seditious publications? At such a critical

time as this, did the author of this pamphlet inculcate the

necessity of peace and good-order? Or did he exhort the lower

ranks of the people to be patient and submissive in bearing the

additional burthens which might be necessary, in order to enable

us to repel, by force, the unjust attacks of an outrageous and
insolent enemy? Or again, when the National Convention of

France had filled up the measure of their crimes by murdering

their king and destroying all lawful government, when their

deliberations breathed nothing but atheism and anarchy, and

when they were threatening every country in Europe with the

introduction of similar principles, did the author of this

pamphlet inculcate a respect for the king and parliament of this

country, and for the reformed religion, and the functions of the

clergy as established by law? I ask not whether he entered into

nice disquisitions concerning improvements, or reformation in

Ismaller matters, but ask, in one word, whether the plain object

of the author, at least in some parts of this pamphlet, were not
to teach ' the degraded laity,' as he calls them, ' that, like brute

beasts, they were sitting tamely under an usurped authority'?

Is there any satisfactory answer to be given to these questions?
    " In the title page, it is true, there stands in great letters,

' Peace and Union.' Is it satisfactory to be told, that all the

offensive passages apply to the members of the Church of

Rome, and not to the members of the Church of England ? I

answer, as I have often heard my Lord Mansfield instruct a
jury : ' Take the writing, and read
I                                        as any plain man would

                          it,
do, and tell us the obvious meaning of the passages;' and

upon this principle, firmly believe that my assessors, the
heads of colleges, who have unanimously concurred with me

in opinion, have conscientiously acted.
04 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. MTAT. 43.

    " But perhaps the author is sorry for his offence : this would

I Iplead strongly in mitigation of censure ; and wish could have

perceived in the whole conduct of this affair, the slightest

vest"igeMro.f  contrition.         certainly   an  undoubted  right to use his
               Frend had
Iown judgment in conducting his defence ; yet still cannot but

think that he has mistaken the proper mode in several ways.

    " 1st. He has not treated this cause with a sufficient degree

of seriousness. Did he expect to make an impression on the

minds of the judge and his assessors, by legal quibbles and

strokes of wit, by allusions to novels, or by endeavours to excite

smiles in the galleries ?

    "2dly. He might have avowed the authorship; and, if

conscious of having gone too far in the propagation of his

principles, he might ingenuously have said, This I maintain to
he true -- that may be defended --but here I wish I had stopped.

    "3dly. If not conscious of having gone too far, he might

have boldly confessed and defended his principles, and in a

manly way have submitted to the infliction of penalties, which,

acco"rdWinhgicthoevheisr  judgment, were       arbitrary and unreasonable.    to
                           of these modes       of defence he had chosen

pursue, I do not perceive that he would have endangered his

reputation as a man of honour and veracity.

    " It was certainly laudable in Mr. Frend to use every fair

and honest exertion of his talents to exculpate himself from

these charges ; but the Court has been at a loss to comprehend

in what way the continued application of satirical remark and

virulent invective on the character of Dr. Kipling, and on the

characters of the rest of the gentlemen who disapproved of this

pub"licCaatinonM, cro. uFldrebned  considered   useful  to this purpose.  of  old,
                                    now say,   as the   great Roman did
' Si nulla alia in re, modestia certe et temperando linguae

adolescens senem vicero ?'

    " Such satire and invective might indeed have a tendency to

debauch the sentiments of the galleries, but could not well be

supposed to make any impression upon the minds of the Vice-

Chancellor or his assessors, or of any gentleman who had care

fully read and considered the pamphlet.
                 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. jETAT. 43.                       95

    " In the course of this defence, it was more than insinuated

that the promoter of this cause could neither write nor speak a
sentence of pure Latin. Suppose, for a moment, that this were
true; suppose, for a moment, that the Bishop of Llandaff,

whose authority was, on Friday last, so confidently appealed to,

could permit the most important professorship in the University

to be so scandalously degraded and neglected, as this imputation

on Dr. Kipling implies; how would all this exculpate Mr.

Frend from   the charges   which have been brought           against him ?
                            possible, for a moment,          that calumny
    " Again  : suppose it

could, by possibility, fix itself upon the respectable characters of

Dr. Glynn, or Professor Mainwaring, of twelve tutors and

lecturers of this University, and of thirty-four members of the

Senate, who all applied to the Vice-Chancellor to induce him to

take cognizance of this offence, I still ask, how would all this

exculpate Mr. Frend from the charges which have been brought

against him ?

    " But Mr. Frend has not contented himself with applying

the most disrespectful appellations to this considerable body of

academical gentlemen ; he has, in effect, maintained, that their

evidence on oath ought to be rejected in this cause. To this
I Ipart of his argument,
                               confess,  listened with the utmost

astonishment. Let us try the truth of these principles, by a

very"  possible  supposition.  to  have  been  of  so gross  a nature,  that
       Suppose    an offence

not only thirty-four, but twice that number -- suppose, even,

that the particular friends and intimates of the offender should

have joined the cabal, as it has been termed --suppose, that the

whole University in a body, or by delegates, had applied to the

Vice-Chancellor, saying, * Sir, you must take cognizance of this

offence ; our character and credit in the world demand it :'

will any man say, that the evidence of all these gentlemen,
speaking on oath, not to the intrinsic merits of the pamphlet,
but to a plain fact, as the buying of a book, or the hand
writing of a person, is to be rejected in such a cause ? This

would indeed be an alarming proposition, and enough to startle

any considerate person. It amounts to no less an absurdity
than this--that the very greatness of a crime might properly

become its shelter and defence.
vn CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. JETAT. 43.

    " Before I put an end to this unpleasant affair, by finally

dissolving the court, I feel myself called upon, by the extra

ordinary circumstances of this cause, to say a few words to the

junior part of this University.

    " You have shewn yourselves to be much interested in the

investigation, and in the event of this trial ; and now that it is
Ibrought to a conclusion,
                                          wish to engage your most serious
Iattention for a few moments, while propose to your considera

"Ition the following advice.
           have no intention to animadvert upon the noisy and
tumultuous irregularities of conduct, by which our proceedings,
on some of the former court days, have been interrupted. Let
these be consigned to oblivion ; but let the principles from
which these irregularities arose be well considered ; and let me
seriously exhort you to be on your guard, in future, against the

consequences of their dangerous and delusive operation. I

cannot suppose, that you have even heard distinctly, much less,

that you can have digested every thing that has been advanced
in the course of this trial. Your passions and affections,
therefore, are not, in this case, founded on a knowledge and

understanding of the subject. Examine yourselves, and you
will perceive that they are founded on certain vague ideas, that

the accused person has been persecuted.                   if not effectually

    " Such an unreasonable persuasion,

opposed by sober argument and reflection, will soon produce

Ithe most destructive consequences on your practice ; and

think it the more necessary, at this time, to advertise you of

your danger, when this country has just escaped and survived a

most alarming crisis ; and when several turbulent and democratic

spirits still endeavour to persuade the public, that every attempt

to punish libellous attacks upon the constitution and govern

ment of the kingdom, by enforcing wholesome and established

laws, is a species of persecution, and contrary to the im

pres"crNipotiwbl,e  I  rights  of man.    this  country,  wherever  there is fair
                       affirm   that, in

ground for an accusation, and where the accused person has had

a fair hearing, there can be no such thing as persecution.

    "On those two essential points I rest the merits of the

question.
                 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. /ETAT. 43.           97

" When, therefore, I look on the junior part of this

University, and see in it the future supports and ornaments

both of the civil and ecclesiastical establishments of England ;

Iand when consider that they have been sent and entrusted

to our care and nurture, by relations and connections who

venerate these establishments, I feel myself authorized to
Iinterrogate them closely; and
                                demand whether, being

educated from earliest infancy in the practice of frequenting

the Church, and of reverencing her institutions, you are now

prepared to say, on reading this pamphlet, that the accusation

of having impugned the Established Church was either frivolous

or oppressive ?

   " I know very well how you must answer this question ; and
I am well persuaded, that the ingenuous dispositions of youth

only needed to   have this matter clearly stated.       the accused
                 to the second question, viz., whether
    " In regard

person has had a fair hearing, I have no anxiety. Whatever

notions you may have inconsiderately entertained before the

trial, I have no doubt but that now, after the trial, you will tell

your fathers, your guardians, and your friends, that you never

heard or read of a trial where the accused person had a more

full, deliberate, or impartial hearing: you will also tell them

that the only doubt which you could entertain of the propriety

of these proceedings might be, whether the Judge of this

Court, through an extreme unwillingness to interrupt the

accused person in his defence, did not carry his patience and

forbearance to an almost unwarrantable length, while he per

mitted the defendant to proceed in an unbounded strain of

irrelevant invective. Then you will add, and I trust with some

effect, that the University of Cambridge will not suffer the

sacred and venerable institutions of the Established Church to

be derided and insulted; and that, at a time when a profane and

licentious spirit of infidelity and irreligion makes rapid advances,

and threatens the destruction of our ecclesiastical fabric, there

were to be found in these seminaries respectable characters,

who could accuse with liberality and decorum, and judges, who

could condemn with firmness and moderation.

    " The remaining part of my advice to you will not fatigue'

                                                        ii
98 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. *TAT. 43.

your memories. It is brief, but it is important, and well worth

your most serious consideration.         Beware of entering into

religious controversies at this period of your lives. Whatever

may be the profession for which you are intended, improve your

understandings by the diligent pursuit of academical studies;

obey your tutors ; frequent the service of God according to the

established forms, both in your private Colleges and in the

University Church. At present, take it for granted, that our

forefathers had some good reason for steadily adhering to, and

supporting, these venerable institutions. I repeat at present,
                                                 I

                                                        it,
take this for granted and those persons whom perceive to be
                   is
objecting to these words, will themselves tell you, that                                          it  has
                      ;
not been my way to take things for granted. All contend
                                                 I

for is, that this        not your time for becoming parties in

controversial matters of religion. It your business to culti
                                  '
vate your understandings, and to take care that the good seeda is

sown in these retirements should take root downwards, and

bear fruit upwards,' and increase to mighty harvest in your

lives  and practice.  who  would openly  attack  the religious                                    prin
       Against those
    "

ciples in which you have been educated           easy to guard.
                                            it

                                                 is

                                                                    I

have more apprehensions from those who are perpetually

talking of candour and liberality, of thinking for themselves, of

examining things thoroughly, of the newly-discovered modes of

interpreting the Scriptures, and of the opinions of fallible men.

    " These, and such like topics, are exceedingly captivating to

the unsuspecting minds of youth. Impressions of the most

durable consequence are made in few conversations and, in
       I
                                                         a
                                                                                a
                                                                                              a;
this way, have more than once seen the finest talents and

the most amiable dispositions perverted, or rendered useless, --

talents and dispositions which, doubtless, in happier circum
stances, and with better cultivation, might have rendered their

possessors eminently serviceable to their country, either in
Church or State.

    " Remember, then, the warm and zealous advice of person

who thus addresses you from the purest motives of good will,
and who wishes for your best interests -- of person whose

imagination and temper have never been heated with religious
CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. .13TAT. 43.  39

disputes --whose pride and ambition it has ever been to obtain,

in the various branches of useful science, solid information for

himself, and to communicate it to others --and whose health has

been almost exhausted by academical labours. Remember,

then, I say, the advice of a person who now addresses you, not

with the authority of a vice-chancellor, but with the friendship
and affection of an experienced academic -- of a person who has
never been suspected of being desirous of possessing offices or

dignities --who has bitterly lamented that the necessity for this

inquiry should have taken place in the present year ; but who,
when the inquiry was once instituted, thought it his duty to go
through with it with all the energy in his power, and who found
it impossible to acquit Mr. Frend without sacrificing every
principle of truth, of justice, and of honour."

     Of those who listened to this speech, and to the warm and
manly address to the undergraduates with which it concludes,

few now survive. It will still, however, afford sufficient evidence

of Dr. Milner's ability as a speaker, and of the dignified and
impressive style of his eloquence. The effect, indeed, of his

public speaking was so much enhanced by his sonorous, yet
melodious voice, by his distinct enunciation, and even by his
commanding person and manner, that, perhaps, no one who has
not heard Dr. Milner address an audience, can, however justly
he may estimate the intrinsic merit of his speeches, fully con

ceive the impression which those speeches produced.

    It may here be mentioned, that a memorandum book for

the year 1794, in Dr. Milner's hand-writing, contains the fol

lowing entry: "To write a general account of Frend's business."
The purpose thus intimated was, I believe, never executed.

The speech above given was found among his papers, in his own

hand-writing.
     During the long vacation of this year, Joseph Milner visited

his brother at Cambridge. A letter which he wrote from thence
to his friend Mr. Stillingfieet, contains a slight notice of Mr.
Frend's trial ; and, like all Joseph Milner's letters, is valuable

and interesting. It treats, at some length, of the state of

religion at Cambridge at that period, and of Mr. Simeon's

ministry, but an extract only can be given.

                                                                                                  H2
100 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. /ETAT. 43.

" I preached yesterday to a serious congregation at Simeon's

church, in the morning, and heard him preach a faithful dis
Icourse in the evening.
                            regret that I shall lose his company

so soon: he is going to Portsmouth. My brother joins with me

in best respects to you. He is as well as one can expect after

so much fatigue. You have heard, I suppose, that Frend is

foiled repeatedly; first, by the Vice-Chancellor's Court, and

then by the unanimous voice of the Court of Delegates. It will

do some good here ; even his arrogant and unchristian conduct

will not be without its fruits. This place has obtained more

Ievangelical means since was here last. There is now Simeon ;

and it is to be regretted that his congregation is not so large as

were to be wished. Of those, however, who do attend, there are a

number of solid Christians ; and whether God may please again
to make this place a nursery for the Gospel, as doubtless it was
in a very high degree at the time of the Reformation, we know
not. But times are different. Then, persons of rank and emi
nence, some of them at least, attended to the Gospel ; now, in

general, the lower orders only regard such things, and the great

and the high have, all over Europe, forgotten that they have

souls. It the more becomes us, my dear friend, to watch and

pray ; it is an hour of temptation. Set a watch over my mouth

that I offend not with my tongue ; let me not eat of their
dainties. I feel need to pray continually, lest I be carried away

even by the civilities of the world. We began as despised
preachers of Jesus; in meekness and simplicity may we con

tinue so to the end, and nourish our own souls with the doctrine

which we preach to others.
*******"" How is your health, and that of Mrs. Still. ? I beg my
love to her."                        My own health, I
Ithank God, is pretty good ; and seem to have a prospect of
more preaching while here ; I hope you also find opportunities
to speak for ' Him who loved us.' To Him, I recommend you

and yours; not forgetting Edward; may he pray, and be

laborious.     " I am, dear Still.,

                            " Always yours, affectionately,
" To the Rev. James Stillingfleet."   "J. Milner.
CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. jETAT. 43.  101

     The notice of Mr. Simeon contained in this letter, coming,
as it does, from such a source, cannot fail to be interesting to
the vast numbers of Cambridge students, still living, who, in
later years enjoyed the privilege of attending upon the ministry
of that most laborious and useful servant of God.

     It was not till the month of December, in this year, that
Dr. Milner was enabled to take formal possession of his
deanery of Carlisle, by reading prayers in the Cathedral. This

appears from a memorandum attested by the signatures of
William Paley, and two other persons.

      Thus commenced Dr. Milner's personal connection with the
city of Carlisle--a connection, which was doubtless, by the bless
ing of God, rendered instrumental to the salvation of many souls.

      And now, since it must surely be the duty of the biographer
of a man whose personal history deserves to be recorded at all,
to give a full and true idea of his character, and mental consti
tution, as well as an account of the events of his life, it may,
perhaps, be worth while to relate a circumstance which certainly
left a considerable impression upon Dean Milner's imagination.

It should be premised, that, like Dr. Johnson, he possessed a

temperament easily affected by whatever appeared to him to
approach to the supernatural; and often, in conversation,
defended and justified the interest which he avowedly took in
the investigation of mysterious stories, whether of dreams or of

apparitions, by the remark, that supernatural events, supposing
them occasionally to occur, are not, -- according to the common
objection of those who are sceptical concerning all such
matters, -- useless ; but, that, on the contrary, they have the
great and important use, of keeping up, in the minds of men, a
vivid idea of the reality of the unseen world.

     Some time before his appointment to the deanery of
Carlisle, Dr. Milner dreamed, that he was led, by a friend,
through the different appartments of a large rambling old
house, which, he was given to understand, would, shortly,
belong to himself. After shewing him several rooms, his con

ductor opened a door which proved to be the entrance to a steep
stone staircase, and desired him to ascend. He did so; and on

turning the corner at the top of this flight of steps, was suddenly,

arrested by the sight of a tomb-stone, bearing the inscription,
102 CHAP. VII. A.D. 1793. «TAT. 43.

HERE LIBTH

      THE  BOMDIYLNOEF R,

ISAAC

   WHO DIED

      A.D.

*** **

When, happily for himself, he could not discover ; for in the
extremity of his eager effort to read the date of the year, which
he perceived was given -- he awoke.

     This dream, striking as it was, gradually faded from Dean
Milner's mind; and would, probably, in time, have been
entirely forgotten, but for a circumstance which, strangely and
forcibly, recalled it to his recollection. On going over his

deanery for the first time, in company, I think, with Dr. Paley,

a door was thrown open which discovered a steep flight of stone
steps, leading to the tower; and so exactly resembling those
which he had seen in his dream, that, as he always declared,

when induced to mention the circumstance, he absolutely

feared to ascend and turn the corner at the top -- so strong was
the impression, that the tombstone would appear. Nor did he

ever ascend that staircase with perfect indifference.

     By those persons who boast of their scepticism respecting
whatever seems to favour the idea of the possibility of inter
course between the visible and invisible world, the circum

stances above related will, perhaps, be deemed mere matter of
ridicule : but even such persons, in common with those who
profess no such unlimited incredulity, may reasonably feel some
degree of interest in an anecdote which tends to reveal, with

reference to a mysterious subject, the intellectual conformation
of such a man as Dean Milner.

     Without intending to assert, that Dr. Milner considered the

remarkable similarity between the actual staircase at the deanery
and the imaginary flight of steps which he had seen in his

dream as anything more than a curious coincidence, it is
proper to say, that he certainly made a practical use of the
dream with its sequel, by regarding the deep and lasting
impression made upon his mind, as an intimation of the transi
tory and unsatisfactory nature of worldly prosperity, and as an

admonition to set his " affections upon things above."
                             103

                       CHAPTER VIII.

Conduct of Dr. Milner as Head of a College.--Letter to a Friend on the Death
of his Daughter. -- Publication of the first volume of the History
Church. --Public Affairs. -- Political Conduct of Mr. Wilberforce.  of the
                                                                    -- Ex
tracts from Dr. Milner's Letters to him at this Juncture. -- Publication of
second volume of the Church History.--Dr. Milner's Chymical Pursuits. --
Correspondence with Mr. Kirwan and the Bishop of Llandaff. --Their
Letters.--Dr. Buchanan.--Visit to Hull. --Willingness of Dr. Milner to
preach for his Friends. -- Extracts from Correspondence. -- Visit to
Buxton. --Letter from Joseph Milner to the Rev. James Stillingfleet.--
His testimony to his Brother's plainness of speech in the Pulpit. -- Decla
ration of Dr. Paley. -- Extract from one of the Dean's early Sermons. --
Society at Buxton. -- Miss Seward. --Lord Erskine. -- Correspondence. --
Illness. --Gradual and constant improvement in Religious Character. --
Publication of the third volume of the Church History. --Correspondence. --
Wilberforce's' Practical View. --Visit to Bath.-- Public Affairs.-- Letter
on Reform. --Mr. Tillotson.

                     A.D. 1794. JETAT. 44.

The year 1794, with the exception of those months during

which, as dean, he was required to reside at Carlisle, was spent

by Dr. Milner in the vigorous discharge of his duties as
President of Queen's College. " A head of a college," to use

his own words, in a letter to the late Rev. William Richardson,
"Iof York, " is supposed to have little or nothing to do ; so,"
continues Dr. Milner,        once thought: but he has all the

property of the college to manage; and, what is far worse, he

has the tempers of parents and guardians to humour about

their children and wards. He has abundance of letters to

write, and he is exposed to many temptations." The truth of

this representation will, probably, be acknowledged by all

whose experience qualifies them to form a judgment upon the
subject in question; but, with regard to some branches of the
duty of a head of a college, Dr. Milner's warm and benevolent

heart perhaps induced him to bestow upon them even more
care than his situation might be supposed to render absolutely

incumbent upon him.

The beneficial regulations which he introduced respecting

the class of students called Sizars have been already adverted
104 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1794. jETAT. 44.

to; but besides these general improvements, some of which

were, doubtless, suggested to him by the recollection of the

degrading services which he had himself, in the early part of
his academical career, been called upon to perform, Dr. Milner

constantly exercised a conscientious superintendency over the

conduct of all the young men belonging to his college, and

actively interested himself in the welfare of such as gave any

promise of future eminence.

    It would be indelicate to mention, in support of this state

ment, the names of living persons; but there can be no impro

                             if

                                           it,
priety in adducing, in proof of                 the name of one eminent

and excellent man, who, he were yet alive, would be among

the most anxious to do justice to the memory of Dr. Milner in
this particular. The late Dr. Buchanan, who was sent to the

University of Cambridge by the Christian liberality of Henry

Thornton, Esq., was entered at Queen's College, " chiefly
because Mr. Thornton was acquainted with the President, and

thought that circumstance might be advantageous to him*."
The correctness of this opinion of the late Mr. Henry Thorn

ton was demonstrated on various occasions in the course of

Dr. Buchanan's life: and would be easy to cite the names of
    a

                               it
many other eminent and excellent persons to whose success in

life Dr. Milner, by the faithful performance of his duties as

head of college, and by his subsequent advice and influence,

mainly contributed.

     During the spring of this year, an old and dear friend of
Dr. Milner was thrown into deep affliction by the death of
                                                                   7,
grown-up daughter. On this calamitous occasion, Dr. Milner                     a

endeavoured to administer consolation to the sorrowing father,

in letter from which here follows an extract.
Ia
" Dear Sir,                              " Queen's College, March  1,94.
    " suppose
               there  can hardly be greater trial for human
                                         it a
nature than the loss of grown-up, and promising children.

Both the cases, however, in which has pleased God, at so

* See Memoirs  the Life and Writings of the Rev. Claudius Buchanan, by
               of
                                     i.
the Rev. Hugh I'tAnsoy, vol
            CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1794. JETAT. 44.                             105

short an interval, to try your faith, patience, and resignation,

have been attended with those circumstances which alone can

render such distressful scenes less distressful, and take away

their sting. God had been preparing her for this change for

"Isome time past.
             remember that my brother, some time last summer,

spoke of her Christian state of mind, in the warmest terms;
and observing upon her anxiety, he said, ' They are always the

most distressed   wwhoorldh.'a"ve  the  least  reason  to  be so;  it is  the
best sign in the

     In the long vacation of this year Dr. Milner enjoyed, as
usual, the company of his brother; being his guest at Hull,

and his host at Carlisle. Joseph Milner, who had already

distinguished himself as an author, by his able defence of

revealed truth against the insinuations and misrepresentations

of Gibbon and of Hume, was now about to publish the first

volume of his History of the Church of Christ;             a work of which

the author's own account gives the best idea.              " It is certain,"
says he, " that from our Saviour's time to the present, there

have ever been persons whose dispositions and lives have been

formed by the rules of the New Testament: men who have

been real, not merely nominal Christians: who believed the

doctrines of the Gospel, loved them, because of their divine
excellency, and suffered gladly ' the loss of all things, that they

might win Christ and be found in Him *.' It is the history of
these men which I propose to write."

    In the preparation of the subsequent volumes of this
history for publication, Joseph Milner was assisted by his

brother the Dean; who, however, suggested few alterations

except such as related merely to style. It cannot be doubted,

that, by the reading of the manuscript sheets of this work with

their author, he imbibed much of that taste for ecclesiastical

history which, joined to his own learning and ability, eminently

qualified him to carry forward the design of the deceased

historian.

                  * Philip, iii., 8, 9.
106 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1795. *TAT. 45.

     In common with every lover of his country, Dr. Milner, at
this period, felt much anxiety concerning the state of public

affairs.

     On most points his sentiments were in accordance with
those of Mr. Wilberforce; but there were subjects respecting

which he differed from his friend.

      Actuated, unquestionably, by the most conscientious

motives, Mr. Wilberforce, about this time, withdrew his support
from Mr. Pitt respecting the continuance of the war, and on
the occasion of the meeting of Parliament, on the 2nd of

January, 1795, appeared in open opposition by moving an

amendment to the address. He, afterwards, repeatedly divided

with the party in opposition, and " it was not without pain
that he heard Mr. Fox, in a friendly visit which he paid him

about this  time, express a      confident expectation          of his speedy
enrolment   in their ranks."                                    also which led
                                  " The same reasons

the opposition party to claim him as their own, rendered him

suspected by the bulk of sober-minded men." " ' Your friend
Mr. Wilberforce,' said Mr. Wyndham to Lady Spencer, ' will

gbeuillvoetrinye.h' a"ppy"  any  morning to    hand your        ladyship to the
                                 others, less  violent than     Mr. Wyndham,
                            And

partook in a great measure of the same suspicions*." Under

these circumstances, Dr. Milner, frequently by letter, addressed

his friend in a tone of friendly advice; for instance: "The

opposition," wrote Dr. Milner, "will rejoice either in getting

you virtually to their side, or in ruining you in the public

opinion; and further, say or think what you will, I am sure it

will not be long before there will be a coldness between you

and the government. Both opposition and your disgusted

friends of administration, are inclined to admit a notion, that

you are endeavouring to raise a consequential party of your
own; and, on that score, both sides will concur in having a

fling at you."
     A short time before the meeting of Parliament Dr. Milner

wrote to Mr. Wilberforce a letter, containing the following

acute and pertinent suggestions : " I do not perceive the nature

                                 Life of Wilberforce, vol. ii.
   CHAP. VIII. A.P. 1795. JETAT. 45.                       107

of the opposition to Pitt which you are likely to make. Weigh

it well, my dear friend. I hope you will not prove a dupe

to the dishonest opposition, who will be glad to make use of

you in hunting down Pitt, and for no other purpose. All will

not be so sincere as you will be; nor will they be proof against

the artifices of Fox, Sheridan, &c. You may, I see clearly,

raise a phalanx, but it may turn out that you will not be able to

direct its motions. I speak plainly, because I wish well to the

country, and love you personally."
     On the 4th of January, after Mr. Wilberforce had taken

the decisive step of moving an amendment to the address,
Dr. Milner wrote to him in the following truly friendly and

Christian manner : " I think that you are in a very critical

situation, both as to the general good, or bad effect, which your

conduct may produce in national affairs, and also in regard to

the judgment which will be formed of you personally. On

Friday night I read over the debates; and I can truly say, I
Inever was so much concerned about politics in my life 5 was
Iquite low, and so continue. There was not any one of the
Ispeeches that liked. In the first place, I never conceived

that you had intended to take so decided a part in this business

as to lead the opposition against Pitt. There is not the slightest

doubt but you will be represented as having gone over to the
opposition, nor will it be easy to do away the impression ; for,

1st, you opposed Government in the great question of peace

or war ; 2ndly, you made the motion ; 3rdly, the opposition

   I

                it,
approved of and hailed the accession of their new forces.  I

wish may be mistaken; yet, as understand your amend
                         I

                               it
ment, and the consequent division, will certainly tend to

weaken the Government and to divide the sentiments of the

country; to strengthen factious opposition, and to encourage
                       a

                          *
                               *
                                               it
the French Convention."  "Let but be supposed, that

you are against the war, that you are for peace, and your name

and authority are made use of to much greater extent than
                         a
                                 is
you ever intended. The part you take of great consequence.
I   am very low about public affairs, and am looking for

something more tremendous: the prospect constantly before
                                                   is

me. "We ought, every one for himself, to 'make haste and
108 CHAP. VI J I. A.D. 1795. JET AT. 45.

keep his commandments.'"  * * * * Again,

Dr. Milner wrote this year from Carlisle: "The bulk of people

think you are doing a great deal of mischief. A very few, who

know your sincerity, and think pretty closely, believe that you

may be doing a great deal of good by drawing the Minister to

his senses, and hastening peace. But even these are not

without doubts : it is an intricate and thorny business. The

sentiments of your constituents through the West Riding,

Irespecting the part you have taken in parliament, have had
some opportunity of learning; and I am sorry to say, that,
Iexcepting a few notorious democrats, have not met with a

single person who does not disapprove your conduct. The same

sentiments pervade the most sensible people in these parts, the

democrats still excepted." From Cambridge, Dr. Milner after

wards wrote as follows: " I pray God to bless you for writing me
Iso affectionate a letter. wish that you should learn from others,
Irather than from myself, how vehemently have defended you

from the attacks of Drs. Kipling, Jowett, Turner, &c. ; some of

whom hold, that you have done the country much more harm

than any defeat could do." * * * * " It is

now, more than ever before in your life, that the consequence

and force of your independence is felt."
     On a subsequent occasion, Dr. Milner addressed to his

friend the following very kind and judicious advice: "Your

old friends have everything at stake, and you must bear with

them if they are now and then unreasonable. Guard yourself

against saying anything satirical at Government ; let there be

no bitterness, nor the slightest ground for suspecting peevish
ness, or a disposition to thwart. Your opposition, in one point

of view, must do great mischief ; this you cannot help ; but

there is the more reason for avoiding exacerbations of every

sort, among which is to be reckoned nibbling altercation."

     During this year was published the second volume of Joseph
Milner's Church History, the manuscript of which Dr. Milner

read with his brother.

Dean Milner had never ceased to pursue, so far as his

precarious health and diminished leisure permitted, his chy-

mical investigations. He was, at this time, in correspondence
CHAP. VIII. A D. 1795. JETAT. 45.                           109

with Mr. Kirwan, the eminent Irish chymist already mentioned;
and in the month of October received from him the following
letter, relative to the methods used by the French in the
manufacture of nitre.

" To the Very Rev. the Dean op Carlisle.

" Dear Sir,        required             "Dublin, October 25, 1795.
    " Your letter            no apology; or, if any, it is for

containing one. It is always a pleasure to me to hear of you,

and particularly from yourself. The French kept their method

of making nitre a secret, but things led me to think that they
formed nitrous acid in the manner you discovered.

    " 1st. The embargo laid on potash, and the quantity of it
sent even from Bordeaux to Paris, as I have been assured

by persons from that city.
    " 2nd. The quantity of manganese they had stored in Paris,

as you may see in the ninth volume of the Annates de Chimie,

p. 340.

    " And, lastly, as I knew no other method of procuring it.
   I" am exceedingly happy to find you have been restored to

a better state of health, both for your own sake, and for that of

science ; and am,

    " With the most distinguished regard and esteem,
             " Your most affectionate and humble servant,
                                                       "R. Kirwan."

     Dr. Milner likewise maintained a correspondence on chy-
mical topics with the late Dr. Watson, bishop of Llandaff.

The following letter has reference to the subject treated of in
the letters of Dr. Priestley* and Mr. Kirwan.

"To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle.

"Dear Sir,       time  in      " Great George Street, Feb.  18, 1796.
    " I lose no            answering your letter. It is a   very high

honour to you to have discovered the mode of making the

nitrous acid ; and though our enemies avail themselves of your

                             See Chapter III.
110 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 179fi. JETAT. 4fi.

ingenuity, yet, it may, in future be of use to your own country.

Any unfavourable revolution in India, would leave us as destitute

of saltpetre as France would have been without your discovery.

II still doubt, as did when you shewed me the experiment, the

practicability of making saltpetre at as cheap a rate as it may

be imported ; but have no doubt in thinking that the experi

ment ought to be tried in the large way, by the Board of
IOrdnance.
            think there is a manufactory of sal ammoniac in

the Borough, where the volatile alkali is extracted from bones.

The bones of the meat daily consumed in this capital, together

with such other matters as might, by proper arrangements, be

saved, would supply plenty of volatile alkali ; and as to manga
Inese, believe there is great abundance of it in the country ;
Iand have some suspicion that manganese is not the only
Imineral which might be used.
                                        speak from recollection, when
I say, that Mr. Stanley, I think it was, of Ponsonby, in Cum

berland, informed me, about thirty years ago, that he had in
his estate immense beds of manganese which laid very near the

Isurface, and were at present of no value ; left a large specimen

of this mineral in the chymical schools, opposite your college,

but whether it is still there I cannot say. I shall return to

Westmoreland as soon as my children have had a little benefit   ; it,

from their masters, and will then, or before, if you wish
make inquiry relative to Mr. Stanley's mineral, and give you

any assistance in my power in the prosecution of your design.
Your scheme appears to me to be well enough imagined for the

purpose, though  may admit doubt whether pure volatile
I                                    a
              a
                    it
                                  a
alkali might not be as useful or, perhaps, as cheap, every thing

considered, as filling large vessel with cheap materials from

which only small portion of alkali can be obtained.

    " begin to feel the effects of London air and London life

Inothing but constant exercise in the country can preserve my
frame in any tolerable state.

            " am, dear Sir, with great esteem and regard,
                               " Your faithful friend and servant,
                                                     " R. Llandaff."

In the early part of this year, the friends by whose Chris
                 CHAP. VTfL A.D. 1796. jETAT. 46.                    Ill

tian kindness and liberality, the late Dr. Buchanan " had been
introduced into the Church, conceiving that his talents might

be more advantageously employed abroad, recurred to the plan
which had, for some time, been more or less in their view, and

resolved to endeavour to obtain for him the appointment of a
chaplain in the service of the East India Company." In pur
suance of this determination, it was necessary to procure such

testimonials as might " amply certify the qualifications of Mr.

Buchanan for the office to which he was recommended*."
Copies of these testimonials are inserted in the Life of Dr.
Buchanan already cited. The first, is from the President and
Fellows of Queen's College, and expresses, in general terms,
the high opinion entertained by the governing part of the
College, of Mr. Buchanan's character and talents. This certi
ficate was transmitted by Dr. Milner to Mr. Grant t, with the
following letter, in which he bears a more particular and

decisive testimony to the merits of Mr. Buchanan.

                 "To Charles Grant, Esq.

"Dear Sir,           " Queen's College, Cambridge, March 8, 1796.
    " I inclose  you the College's testimonial of Mr. Buchanan's

good behaviour, expressed in general terms; but if it were
needful to be more particular, I could add a great deal.

    " In my judgment much may be expected from his ability,

industry, and discretion. He has an uncommon zeal for every

thing that is praise-worthy, and this zeal is tempered and
directed by a sound and well-informed understanding. His

good sense and attainments must procure him respect every
where. He will certainly be on the watch to do good. Mr.

Buchanan obtained both classical and mathematical prizes at

college.         " I am, dear Sir, yours,
                               " Isaac Milner."

    It seemed proper to insert, in this place, this just and very

cordial testimony to the merits of so eminent and excellent a

* See Life of the Rev. Claudius Buchanan, by the Rev. Huoh Pearson.

               t The father of the present Lord Glenelg.
112 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1796. ^ETAT. 46.

man as the late Dr. Buchanan ; and it may be added, that the
high opinion invariably expressed by Dr. Milner, concerning
Dr. Buchanan's character and attainments, had, subsequently,
much influence in inducing the Marquis Wellesley to appoint
him Vice-Provost of the College of Fort William, in Bengal.

     Dr. Milner never ceased to maintain a frequent intercourse
with his brother, either by visiting him at Hull, during the

university vacations, or by receiving him, as occasion offered, at
Carlisle, or at Queen's Lodge.

     In the summer of 1796, while on his way to Carlisle for the
purpose of keeping his residence there, he visited his brother
at Hull, and took him with him to spend his school vacation at
the Deanery. Mr. Wilberforce, who, was at the same time at
Hull, on a visit to his aged mother, thus writes in his Diary :
"June 9, 1796. Milner preached -- very practical and good.
Joseph Milner dined with us-- simple and pleasant."

     Nothing can be less extraordinary than that Dr. Milner
should have preached for his brother, while sojourning with him
at Hull ; but it is not generally known how ready and willing

he was, upon all suitable occasions, to occupy the pulpit wher
ever he might happen to be. Many of the present inhabitants
of Carlisle well remember his frequent sermons on the Wednes
day evenings, at St. Cuthbert's Church ; and many persons still
living at Hull can bear witness to his frequent and impressive
addresses from the pulpit of St. John's, during the visits which
he paid to the town of Hull, after the decease of his brother.

Nay even if detained during Sunday on a journey --for it is
needless to say, that he did not travel on the Sabbath --he was
always ready to preach if requested to do so, or if he had reason

to think, that his doing so would be acceptable to the clergyman
of the place. Thus, on more than one occasion, being com

pelled, by circumstances, to pass the Sunday at Ferrybridge,
during his journey from Cambridge to Carlisle, he preached at
the neighbouring church of Brotherton ; and other instances,

of a similar nature, might easily be adduced.
     The numerous letters written by Dr. Milner during the

early part of this summer treat, for the most part, either of
college business or of philosophical subjects. His letters to his
CHAP. VIII. A.D. 179C JETAT. 46.                                          113

intimate friends were, at this period, very various in their

character -- sometimes half jocular --more frequently serious --

and occasionally almost melancholy. Thus, on one occasion to
Mr. Wilberforce, who was spending the season at Buxton, he

writes, "As I am very infirm myself at present, and in weak

spirits, so that I have wept in secret several times lately without

much apparent reason, it will be a real pleasure to me to hear

frequently from you, and to know that you go on well." Happily,
however, the natural elasticity of Dr. Milner's mental tempera

ment soon produced its effect. He proceeds in the same letter,

(July 1st,) to inquire into the particulars of a plan, in which

Mr. Wilberforce was much interested, for the relief of the dis

t"reIssheodpeFrtoenbcehaebmleigtroanptrso,mtohteen   so  numerous in   England, adding,
                                                    the  subscription  among the ladies

here*. Send me   a few of your                      printed  papers.
                 beware of the                      Buxton   Doctors.
    " N.B. Pray    " Ever, dear Sir,

                   " Very affectionately your friend,
                                                             "Isaac Milner."

      Later in the summer, Mr. Wilberforce being called, by the
illness of his mother, to Hull, there met Dean Milner, who,
with his brother Joseph, had just returned from his residence at
Carlisle, and induced him to accompany him on his return to
Buxton. The following letter from Joseph Milner, written
just after his return with his brother from Carlisle, and before
the Dean's departure with Mr. Wilberforce for Buxton, contains

much interesting matter.

"To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.

I" Dear Still.,    hear from                        you     " Hull, August 3rd, 1796.

    " was glad to                                        on my arrival here with my

brother from Carlisle, last Saturday night. You guessed right

about the times of the holidays and my travels. Fawcett is
well, and his family. He and, I hope,
                                                                       and , are

walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the faith of the Gospel.

                   · At Carlisle.                                                        /

                                                                       I
114  CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1796. .<ETAT. 46.

I was afraid he would have no opportunity to minister the

word in Carlisle; he has only preached once there all this time;

the number of clergy there gives him little opportunity. He

has had, however, opportunities of preaching oftener in the

country. He seems desirous of embracing any service which

the Lord may call him to, and he is acceptable in his office

there, and in all his conduct.                                    He

    " The Dean and myself have preached at the Cathedral.

has preached several times with great faithfulness and downright

plainness on the first and most fundamental truths. There is

a shaking among them. There seems to want a following up

of the blow, by a constant repetition of such preaching; for

many hear with eagernes. Some real good, I trust, is done ;

and one sermon there is more regarded than thirty in this part

of the world.

   I" thank you for your good advice about passing through

evil report." * * * " My health is pretty good at present,

Iand am going on with the History; but as I come nearer the

Reformation, major mihi nascitur ordo. Indeed the work is

Ivery laborious ; did not think it to be so great as it is before
I undertook it. The Lord take it into his own hands, and
Imagnify himself by it; and may be helped to disburden

myself of all anxious care concerningI

                                            it,

                                                 I

                                                              is
                                                              it
                                                         while do what He

enables me to do. 'Be careful for nothing;' that the precept

have felt the want of for years.  am always prone to excess
I
     Iaof care and thinking; pray, my dear friend, that may not

                             !overcome me in my growing age and infirmities. The sim

                        aplicity of faith vastly need to live by faith my wisdom and
                                ;
              II
                                    I

                                                              is
happiness How very little do know of it!

    "Give my love to the venerable old servant of God* at

whose house hope this may reach you.                     I  have only to wish

him gentle and placid departure to Abraham's bosom. He

has fought good fight and has finished his course.

    " hope your health continues well, and that Mrs. S. has

had no violent returns of her disorder.                  shall never, hope,
                                         II
                                                          I
forget the sweetness of friendship which have tasted from you

                                The late Rev. Mr. Venn.
CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1796. jETAT. 46.  115

Iboth ; and pray you may both be brought safe home, and in

the fulness of the blessing of the Gospel of Christ.

   I" am glad you find employment in the pulpit, and I trust

it will not be in vain. We have need to pray for the Church
and nation. Things are very dark ; they may be darker still ;

and yet I trust the Lord will not give us over to the enemy.

He will repay them to their face, because they hate Him.
There is an evident growth of faithful labourers in the Church.
One young man has been at Carlisle, who was awakened under
Mr. Porter, at Leeds; he seems serious and humble, and is

going to be fixed in an Episcopal Church in Scotland. The

Bishop of Carlisle, by the Dean's recommendation, has promised
to ordain him to it. The greatest evil is the plain want of
national humiliation, and the continuance of profaneness,
luxury, pleasures, &c. No wonder we are scourged and brought
low. But let us mind our business, the Lord will take care of

his. After all, we know of more evil within us than we do of

all the gross outward sins of the land. Indwelling sin is our
burden. Out of the depths we must keep crying to the Lord:
and, as circumstances now are, it behoves us specially to take
care that we be not drawn into a wrong spirit on the one hand,
by the evils of professors, and on the other, by the agreeable
qualities of the profane. The Lord uphold us, and cause us to
hear a voice behind us, saying, This is the way, walk, &c.

     " The foul proceedings in the late election at Hull were a

 bitter potion to me, and a great reproach to this place. But
 why always harping on the worst? God is with his Church,

 and his cause shall prosper.

     " With love to Mrs. S.,
                           " I am alway yours,
                                                   "Joseph Milner."

     To Dean Milner's "faithfulness" and "downright plainness"

in the pulpit, mentioned in the foregoing very pious letter, there
are, doubtless, still many living witnesses; although the greater

part of the generation who, from Sabbath to Sabbath, during
his various residences at Carlisle, were admonished by his
warning voice in the Cathedral, have passed away. Of recorded

                                                                        i2
116 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1796. JET AT. 46.

testimony to his powerful mode of preaching there is, however,
no lack. Among a cloud of witnesses, Dr. Paley may be men
tioned as having, about the year 1796, expressed himself in the
following terms to the present Professor of Modern History at

"ICambridge.
          remember," says Professor Smyth*, "that Dr. Paley
said to me, when I happened to mention Dr. Milner, and what

were supposed to be the great powers of his mind, ' Why, yes ;
I told the Bishop of Carlisle f, that about the evangelical doc
Itrines themselves,
                     must leave him to judge, but that if he

chose to hear them urged with great ability, and  placed in   the
most striking point of view, he must go and hear  our dean.'
                                                              "

In perfect agreement with the conversation here recorded,

Dr. Paley, about this time, thus wrote to a friend: "When the

Dean of Carlisle preaches you may walk upon the heads of the

people. All the meetings attend to hear him. He is indeed

a powerful preacher."

    This testimony of Dr. Paley, concerning the crowds who

attended at the Cathedral whenever the Dean preached, might

be confirmed by many living witnesses. Indeed, the very
words, or nearly so, employed by Dr. Paley, occur in a letter
lately addressed to myself by a professional gentleman, still
resident at Carlisle. "When it was known," says he, "that

Ithe Dean was to preach in the Cathedral, have seen the aisles

and every part of it so thronged, that a person might have

walked upon the heads of the crowd. It was pleasing to see

how religious persons of different denominations flocked around
the pulpit. » * *

    " I well remember at times, while preaching, his being so

absorbed in his subject, that the expression of his countenance

had in it something more than earthly. He has told me, that
he always felt doubly assured when he was preaching the Truth."

* * * "In one of his discourses he recommended it to his

hearers, 'not to busy themselves in the inquiry, whether
the preacher were right in every particular point, but rather

           * In a letter to myself,
t The present Lord Archbishop of York.
                      CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1796. JETAT. 46.                             117

to inquire whether they themselves were right in the main
                   *   *
poin"t.A' fte*r  one  of  the  powerful  sermons  that                 he preached  in the

Cathedral from the words, 'Wherefore halt ye between two

opinions?' &c., a young gentleman from Liverpool, who had

heard him, called upon him, and with tears in his eyes, thanked

him for his discourse. The Dean told me, that the same sermon

had been instrumental in bringing one or two other persons to
a sense of the importance of religion. He did not say this as if

boasting, but was only thankful that he should have been the
means of bringing any to a knowledge of the Truth."

Some brief extracts from one of the first sermons which

Dean Milner delivered from the pulpit of the cathedral of

Carlisle, and one to which, after the lapse of nearly twenty

years, he, from the same pulpit, alluded with satisfaction, as

having been rendered, by the blessing of God, singularly useful,

may serve as a fair specimen of his style and manner of

preaching, and cannot be unacceptable to those who feel an

interest in the subject of this biography.

The sermon in question treats of the history of Enoch*, and
                      convey "
its scope is,     to  " However  just idea  of what                   meant by walking
with God.'                       excellent    thing                  be," says the Dean,
                 "             it                                      '
                                   is a
" to walk with God,
                                                         a

                                                                it is
                                 no more than what all men in all ages

ought to do. We are led, then, to suspect that the generality

of persons in Enoch's time walked not with God, but after the

course of this world, after the spirit which now worketh in the'

children of disobedience.' In truth, the fall of man was pre

sently followed by the most dismal effects. Witness the account

given of the blood of righteous Abel, and of the earth being

filled with violence, and of all flesh having corrupted their way
upon the earth. Moreover, the Lord was induced to sweep

away the whole generation of mankind, except eight persons,

by flood. But before things proceeded to this extremity,
a
                                                                i., is

                                                                           '
                                                                                                 is
                                                                                          a it
pleased God, by an act of singular and distinguished favour

towards righteous Enoch, to show to mankind that there

God that judgeth the earth;' that there another life, in which

                 * See Dr. Milker's Sermons) Vol. Sermon 11.
118 CHAP. VIII. A.D. I796. .ETAT. 46.

his faithful servants shall enjoy their God for ever ; and that

the present   life is too  poor and low a  scene  for immortal spirits
to set their  affections   upon." * *             For it is not to be
                                           *"

supposed but that the circumstances of Enoch's translation

were such as to give full evidence that the fact was real ; as

was the case with Elijah's translation to heaven long after --

which event also took place at a period of much wickedness and

contempt of God." * * * " Three hundred and sixty-five

years was the whole of Enoch's existence on earth; and,

according to the length of men's lives at that time, he might be

called a young person. But he lived long enough to shame an
evil world by the height of his piety. While others walked

after the sight of their eyes, and according to the imaginations

of their hearts, he lived by faith in God. He saw the invisible
God with the eyes of his understanding, and walked with Him

as a friend. He maintained a connexion with Him in all he

did : his whole course of life was directed to please Him. He

received the law from his mouth, and it was dearer to him than

anything besides. No doubt he conversed with Him by prayer,

praise, and meditation, and had a holy and reverend commu
nion with Him, such as it becomes obedient creatures to have

with their Creator. The account is very short, but doubtless

he wa s reconciled to Him by faith in the promised seed who

was to bruise the serpent's head, for Enoch had sin as well as
other men. He was saved by grace, and he was conscious of a

Divine principle of grace, which gave him this happy turn of

mind, and drew his affections up to God. Were it not for

God's revealed promise of grace in Christ, he could have had

no comfortable affiance in God from the light of nature, for

that teaches no sinner how to obtain reconciliation with God.
Revelation alone can do this for any man ; and ' how can two

walk   together except they  be agreed ?'  and  therefore  walked  with
       Enoch was reconciled   with God,
    "

him as a friend. Pleasant and precious privilege ! Oh ! what
so delightful as to call God, Father, --to enjoy his favour, and

peace of conscience,-- to be indulged with the tokens of his

presence, and the manifestation of his Divine perfections !

To such a man, duty is a delight, the will of God is freedom,
          CHAP. VIII. A.D. I796. JETAT. 46.                   119

and holiness is the health of the soul." * * * * " After
Enoch had 'walked with God' three hundred years, he was no

more found on earth; for God had removed him to Himself by
a happy miraculous translation. In the eleventh chapter of the
Epistle to the Hebrews, we are told, that ' by faith he was
translated, that he should not see death; and was not found,

because God took him: for before his translation he had this
testimony, that he pleased God/ But how did he please him ?

It is added, ' without faith it is impossible to please Him; for

he that cometh unto God must believe that he and that he
is
    a
                                 is
                                                                     is
                                                                                  a

                                                                                    is,
                                                                                                                        a
rewarder of them that diligently seek him.' Enoch had

lively influential persuasion, that there      God that judgeth

the earth; that He to be found by them that seek Him, as

their portion and happiness; and this, we know, cannot be

done, except, in substance, upon real Christian principles.
Guilt cannot be taken out of the conscience but by faith in

God's promises respecting the Redeemer; nor can the heart of

such a creature as man be renewed and made holy, but by       :a
                                               " To walk with
principle of grace from above."
          a?
              is

                 I

                         if
                              *
                                   *
                                        *

                                    I*
God, as Enoch did, the duty of every reasonable creature

and, in truth, what can be so reasonable, so pleasant, and so

altogether excellent Nay, might add, that guilty creatures

like men, being, through Jesus the Mediator, allowed thus to

walk with God, as forgiving, reconciled Father, is, in some

respects, more delightful than no breach had ever been madea
for surely, humility and gratitude are most truly Christian
sensations, and the exercise of them will, doubt not, form              :
one of the most precious enjoyments of heaven and immor

tality."is                                 if

    It needless to say, that the above extracts give but verya

meagre idea of the admirable and affecting discourse from  a

which they are taken. The same, however, might be said, and
said with considerable measure of truth, the discourse were
given entire: for all who have heard Dean Milner speak from
the pulpit, will agree, that to communicate anything like an
adequate conception of the impressive dignity of his manner,
or of the effect which his sermons produced, would be vain
attempt. His deep conviction of the infinite importance of the
120 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 17U6. *TAT. 46.

subjects which, as a preacher, he had to handle, gave to his
addresses from the pulpit a force and a reality, which, under
other circumstances, compositions incomparably more regular
and polished, must have failed to possess. In short, the secret
of his eloquence, or rather of the impression which he made

upon his hearers, lay, if the expression may be permitted, in

the intensity of his sincerity.
      Having been induced, as has been already intimated, to

accompany Mr. Wilberforce on his return from Hull to Buxton,
Dean Milner, with his friend, generally dined at the public
table, in company with Lord Erskine, Miss Seward, and a
crowd of visitors.

     Of this joint visit to Buxton, Mr. Wilberforce's Diary
affords the following characteristic notices.

     " Heard Miss Seward repeat and read Cornaro. * * * *
Erskine much with her-- his free conversation with Milner

about religion."

    " Miss Seward went on Friday. Erskine, Milner, and I, too

much with her, flattering her, &c."

    " Our friend the Dean is tolerable, and much amused, and

not a little amusing."
     During this visit to Buxton, the Dean preached at least

once, and that with an earnestness and solemnity which ren
dered his discourse exceedingly striking to the gay congregation-

whom he addressed.
     The Christmas of this year was passed by Dr. Milner, at

that time in very indifferent health, at Hull. In a letter to
Mr. Wilberforce, dated " Christmas morning," he enters, after
the discussion of much other matter, upon a subject which, even

between friends as intimate as were these attached correspond
ents, must have been felt to be one of some delicacy; but of
which the mention may here be properly introduced as affording

an illustration of Dean M ilner's simple and affectionate cha

racter.

     Mr. Wilberforce, habituated from his youth to the most
unrestrained intimacy with Dr. Milner, had communicated his
wish to have a general invitation or licence to take up his abode
in Queen's Lodge for any length of time, whenever it might be
CHAP. VIII. A.D. 17'jfi. JETAT. id.                         121

agreeable to him to do so, without notice, or previous arrange

ment; and this, either in the presence or the absence of the

President; nor was there, in this proposal, anything which,

under different circumstances, would have been otherwise than

agreeable to his friend. As it was, however, Dr. Milner hesi

tated to enter into such an agreement; and with the perfect

sincerity which always marked his character, yet with the
utmost kindness and consideration, he states to Mr. Wilberforce

his feelings upon the occasion.

    It will be readily supposed, that the precarious state of Dr.

Milner's health formed one chief ground of objection to his

friend's proposal; but, besides this, there existed College reasons
of great cogency, which militated against Mr. Wilberforce's

plan. Without, however, entering more minutely into these

circumstances, it maybe allowable    "toYoquuotaendfroIm,"  Dean Milner's
letter one characteristic passage.
                                                            he writes, " if

in the same house at Cambridge, should reciprocally thwart

" Ieach other's way of going on. The fact is we have too many
common acquaintance." * * * *        can bear so little;

Iand should for ever be attempting to bear something; and

after all, I should be reckoned queerer and queerer; my health

would soon be broken down, and my little arrangements for

doing what good I can in college, defeated.
    "We are alike in many respects; but your hours and capabi

lities differ much from mine.

   " If it were necessary to add anything more to make you
understand my feelings on such an occasion, I would say, that
there is no man's house in the world, I like to be in, so much
as yours ; nor would I voluntarily come up at all to London,
but to you. Yet, even in your house, I am often forced to be
Iwith fellows for hours more than like; often meet foul fellows
I Iin the breakfast room, whom wish gone ; and then keep up

a deceitful sort of mock character.

"'Retire to your bedroom,' you say; that is not pleasant; it

is a sort of succedaneum: one's things are not about one there ;

and one is not well waited on there.

   I" My good friend, hope you will not judge harshly of me--
Imy heart is full ; and tears run down my cheeks while am
122 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1796. jETAT. 46.

induced to state these facts. In some points of view, there is

Ino man on earth who has fewer wants than myself--in others,

own, 1 am all caprice, &c. You don't half know me yet.

    " It has long been my opinion, that with a little management

and previous arrangement and foresight, you might spend at

Cambridge a good deal of time with comfort and advantage to

both of us. But if so, a new leaf must be turned over.
    " A priori, one would have thought, that with the data we

had at Buxton, we might have gone on without encroachment on
Ieach other's retirements, comfortably and usefully.
                                                           think we

did not do so well as we might have done ; and God knows, I

take upon me my share of the mismanagement."

Here follows, in the shape of a very lively account of some

college disputes, and of the writer's position as president, one

of those abrupt transitions from "grave to gay," which, not

unfrequently, occur in Dr. Milner's confidential letters.

There was certainly little danger, that the truly friendly

communication from which the foregoing extract is taken, could

be misunderstood by him to whom it was addressed. On the

contrary, the increasingly tender nature of the regard which

subsisted between these excellent friends is, perhaps, even more

strikingly manifested in their subsequent correspondence.

Early in the succeeding January, the Dean thus wrote, to Mr.

Wilberforce, at Bath.

I" pray God, my dear Sir, to bless you, and to make this

journey useful to you.

    " It is impossible for me not to perceive, and in several of

your late letters particularly, a most tender regard to my

feelings, and a solicitude and anxiety to administer comfort to

my whimsical and unreasonable frame. Sincerity constrains

me to say, that your endeavours have not always the effect

you intend them to have ; for though they make me love you

better, and make me grateful, in a degree, they also tend to

mortify me ; besides, I cannot read these letters without weep
Iing ; wish you would not be so anxious about hurting me--
you are afraid of dropping the slightest word -- such an extreme
I Ianxiety,
say, neither becomes you nor me ; for trust we
              CHAP. VIII. A.D. 171*7- /ETAT. 47.         123

shall never misconstrue one another's real meaning -- I am sure,

II see yours, and, as have said, that consideration makes me

love you better.

    " I will briefly mention a material thing, which I am afraid

may make it improper for me to be absent from Queen's, (at

least farther than London,) for some weeks to come.
"
              's brother, (Dr.     ,) who is now talked of for

the next bishop, is printing his Lectures on Divinity, at the

                                              In these lectures he
                                                         opinion, that
******university press, and with our sanction.

advances a most extraordinary and

articles of religion, are to be considered as articles of union not

of faith ; and in short, that a person may subscribe anything :

I really think, that I do not misrepresent. Dr. Jowett, myself,

and others, have inadvertently countenanced the publication,
not knowing how much he has laboured this point. There are

likely to be some very serious meetings of syndics on this

subject.           " Yours, very affectionately,
              Wilberforce, Esq."
" To William                                             I. M.

Within a short period from the date of the preceding letter,

Dr. Milner was invited by his friend to join him at Bath.
This invitation was at first declined. "What a sad way,"
writes the Dean, " are you going on in, calling on this gang of

Iacquaintance! I'll warrant you, should have a sweet time

    such fellows." Another       letter from Cambridge   is much
                                                         good for
   serious in its tone : "      am very sure that it is
Iamong

more
Ime to have been afflicted.
                             say this with some thankfulness,
Ibut with tears of regret. It is very true ; am very sure of it ;

but it is a sad thing that less will not do.
" I shall, probably, be here for some months. I have no
Iparticular pressure of business;
                                   am nursing myself quietly,
Iand endeavouring to profit by retirement: if don't profit then,
II never do. For anything I know, shall be quite alone till

the latter end of March, or perhaps longer ; in fact, till towards

Easter, when Carlyle will come to his residence as Arabic

Professor ; so if you can come here now, or by and by, I can

receive you with comfort.
124 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1797- jETAT. 47.

     "That most unpleasant affair about Dr.                    's book is

not yet settled.                                 this post from poor
                                                 poorly, but not in his
   I" have had an affecting letter

T. Willis, who has been, and is, very

old way.

    " There is but one sort of true wisdom !
                           " Always yours affectionately,
                                                     " Isaac Milnek.

 " To William Wilberforce, Esq."

      One other passage may be quoted from a letter to the same

friend, dated " February 23, 1797," and written under a severe
attack of " those terrible head-aches," with which Dr. Milner

was at this period of his life frequently afflicted.

     " God knows," he writes, " whether I am to have any more

intervals of tolerable health ; but you will judge of my state,
Iwhen         Itell you, that last Monday had most seriously, as

nearly as possible, determined to leave all here, and go and
wait God's will near my friends at Hull.

   " I wish I could but keep my trust in Him without wavering.

Oh ! a great deal passes my mind ! but you will excuse my writing

mor"e     at present.      be glad    to  see  you;  but  at  present   I am

          Surely I should

too  ill  to  enjoy   your company.
              Yours,   with the best
          "                           and  most  affectionate  wishes,

                                                               "I. M."

     It is surely impossible to read the story of Dr. Milner's

life, illustrated as it is by his confidential letters, without

perceiving a progressive improvement in his religious character.

It is true, indeed, that even in early life, his views of revealed

truth were theoretically correct; but the man who, notwith

standing the soundness of his religious opinions, had in his

youth seemed to desire and value, above all other objects,

literary attainments with the honourable         distinction    which   they
confer, has, in his maturer age, evidently                     to seek  first
                                                 learned "

the kingdom of God and His righteousness."

     Early in this year appeared the third volume of Joseph
          CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1797. «TAT. 47.                            125

Milner's History of the Church of Christ, the last volume which
he lived to publish.

This volume, which contains the history of the Christian

Church from the end of the fifth, to the beginning of the
fourteenth century, -- a period which, though occasionally

illumined by bright beams of light, has justly obtained the
appellation of "the dark ages," -- illustrates and justi6es a
remark of Dean Milner respecting his brother's Church

History.

    " Mr. Milner," says the Dean*, "is constantly in quest of

the true followers of Jesus Christ; he is, on all occasions,

delighted to find them, whether they be in caves or monas

teries, in the papal, or in any other communion; in great cities,

or in the valleys of Piedmont; in established churches, or in
dissenting congregations. With him the character is decided,

whenever it appears that the conduct is practically influenced

by the essentials of Christianity; and, hence, he is often

induced to make candid and large allowances for trying

circumstances and seasons of darkness, corruption, and pre

judice."

This volume, as was that which precededI                              was read over
                                             I
in manuscript by Dean Milner, in company with his brother.
                                                        it,
On the 15th of April in this year, Dr. Milner, in a letter to

Mr. Wilberforce, thus briefly alludes to the Practical View           of

Christianity then recently published by his friend.
" thank you for your books.
I                                     have sent them according

     if

      it I
                               :
to the directions and find already that shall have plenty of
                                  aI
discuss about the contents. My report, however, must be

deferred till see you, and am able to converse fully on the

subject,  please God ever so much to recruit my strength."

Although Dr. Milner had at first declined Mr. Wilberforce's

invitation to join him at Bath, he was not proof against the

solicitations addressed to him, when he became aware that

those solicitations had particular object.
     At Bath, during this season, Mr. Wilberforce, to use the

words of his sons, " had formed the acquaintance of one whom

          *                       See Animadversions on Dr. Ilcmeis.
126 CTAP. VIII. A.D. 1797. JETAT. 47.is it,                        7a

he judged well-fitted to be his companion through life, anda
towards whom he contracted a strong attachment;" and he
was very naturally desirous that Dr. Milner, one of his oldest
and most tried friends, should see the lady who had gained his

affection.
     Advice, asked under similar circumstances, is proverbially

useless ; and, with regard to the present case, it is more than
needless to say, that the opinions of the most anxious friends
of Mr. Wilberforce must have concurred with his own. Had

     however, been otherwise, certain symptoms which struck
the keen eye of Dr. Milner, on his joining the circle at Bath,
and to which he often jocularly alluded, when referring in later
life to this visit, convinced him, that counsel, in this particular
case, would have come too late.

     Mr. Wilberforce's marriage, which took place in May, 1797,
   alluded to in a letter written by Dean Milner upon subject
to which the occurrences of late years have given additional
interest. The practical good sense which this letter exhibits,
as brought to bear upon difficult question, will be recognised
by most persons who knew the writer, as exceedingly charac
teristic.

"To William Wilberforce, Esq.
                                                  " Hull, June th, 1?97.
"My dear Sir,
" arrived here on Saturday last, which day was as much like
is
a winter's day as could be, both in boisterous wind and cold
    I
              Irain. Remember me always affectionately to your better half,

                 I;
                             I
and explain to her, at proper times, the oddities of your old,

but sincere friend otherwise, fear, her favourable disposition

towards me will weaken, not strengthen. My earnest prayer

that this change in both your situations may be for your

mut"uaNlogtohoindg. can be more awful than public affairs. If were
                                                                   I

Pitt, or the King, would come down to the House, and first

beseech unanimity; secondly, desire that all hands would unite

in saving the nation--viz., in getting out of the scrape --before

they thought of reforming it.

"Thirdly, would solemnly promise to take the sense of
         CHAI\ VIII. A.D. 1797. JET AT. 47.                     127

the nation at large on the subject of reform, as soon as all was

safe. For, I say this, if the bulk of persons of property be for
reform, then reform cannot be stopped. I don't think they
are, or will be; therefore I would number the whole nation,
Iwhich might be easily done. Thus would find out whether

the bulk of property, of housekeepers, &c, really desired

reform, or were content with the present constitution. I am

convinced that such a proceeding would either set the question

at rest, or would put it upon a different footing from the pre

sent ; e. g., if it turned out that property were against reform,
then it would be nearly reduced to this-- Shall we have Universal

Suffrage? Let the real sense of the nation be found, and the

lists printed ; and let the different ways of conceiving this

matter be stated, and let the people be classed.

    "Objection. -- There will be a great number of hypocrites

who will pretend a moderate reform, and mean more.

   " Answer. -- I think the question might be so stated as to
show what was the number of such sort of people. In short I

think it would be a great thing to find out the real sense of the**

Ipeople, if you were a year or two about it. Then, further

think, that if government, in that period, would employ good

hands to state, ad populum, briefly the dangers of too popular a

reform,  they would   strengthen themselves  most amazingly.    diffi
         believe the  above is the true way  to get out of all
     "I

culties; to disconcert rascals, and to unite honest men. Oh,

how I wish they would take such a step ! I also wish that a

very respectable commission would go down to these sailors.
                                   "Yours, in fear and anxiety,

                                                   " Isaac Milner."

    A letter dated "Carlisle, July 4th," and apparently written
during this year, contains a notice of Mr. Tillotson, who, as

it has been already intimated, lived during his old age with
Dr. Milner.

    In reference to this gentleman, an intimate and still living

Ifriend of Dean Milner thus writes : -- " have always understood

that the origin of your uncle's connection with Mr. Tillotson
was, that Mr. Tillotson had been assistant to him, or to his
128 CHAP. VIII. A.D. 1797- JETAT. 47.

brother Joseph, in the early part of their lives; and that this

was returned by your uncle when he had an opportunity to

offer the old gentleman a residence and a retreat from business,

which were, both of them, very agreeable. You are aware, I

dare say, that your uncle and his brother Joseph forced their

Iway"throhuagvhe   great  difficulties in  early   life.    arrived  at Cam
                  heard   that the first   time   the Dean

bridge he and his brother Joseph walked up from Leeds, with

Ioccasional lifts in a waggon ; and believe it came from the

Dean himself.

    " In these times I surmise it was that Mr. Tillotson was in
some way or other assisting ; but further I never knew."

   I"The friendly offices," writes the Dean, "which have

received from this good man during my long illness, are innu

merable."

    It seemed due to the memory of the "good man," who

passed a quiet and happy old age in the home which Dr.

Milner's gratitude afforded to him, to quote this passage ; and
it may be added, that never did grateful deed meet with a more
abundant return, than did the hospitality of Dr. Milner to Mr.

. Tillotson. The old man, who had but few relatives, and those

estranged from him by untoward circumstances, seemed to

concentrate the whole force of his affections upon his bene

factor ; and it is needless to say that this temper of mind

secured his own happiness. The adage that charity is twice

blessed, it "blesses him who gives, and him who receives,"

was never more fully justified.
                129

                CHAPTER IX.

Joseph Milner visits his Brother at Carlisle. -- Appointment of Joseph Milner
     to the Vicarage of Hull. --His Letters.--Religious condition of Carlisle in
      1797- --Feelings of Joseph Milner on his promotion to the Vicarage. --Cor
      respondence of Dr. Milner. -- Rev. Mr. Thomason. --Declining health of
      Joseph Milner. --Dr. Milner's opinion concerning Private Tutors. --
       Important change of Character. --Joseph Milner's last Illness. -- His Letters
       to his Brother and to Mr. Stillingfleet. -- His opinion of Dr. Johnson. --
       Great change which had taken place in his Religious Sentiments. -- His
       Death. --Monumental Inscription. --Extracts from Correspondence of Dr.
       Milner. -- Opium. --Letter to Rev. William Richardson. -- Joseph Milner's
      Style.-- Publication of his Sermons. --Letters. -- To Mrs. Carlyle. --To Mr.
       Wilberforce. -- Affairs of Trinity College. -- Importance of the expulsion of
       Mr. Frend. --Disturbed State of Ireland. --Duel between Mr. Pitt and Mr.
       Tierney. --Variety of Dr. Milner's Information. --Mendoza. --Irish Affairs.
      --The Bishop of Down.

                                 A.D. 1797. JETAT. 47.

During a part of the summer of this year, Joseph Milner

visited his brother the Dean, at Carlisle. The following letter,
written in the month of July, just four months previous to the
writer's decease, is interesting both as exhibiting the state of
his own mind, and as depicting the spiritual condition of the
city of Carlisle at that period.

"To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.

" Dear Still.,       " Carlisle, July 14, 179/.
" I was glad and thankful to hear from you at this distance.
I live, indeed, in the midst of plenty, and my health is full as
good as it has been for some time. But --yes, there is always
a ' but' in this world-- and if it were not so, things would be
Istill worse with us ; O wretched man that I am !
                                                   feel this

most sensibly, when everything external is smooth and agreea

ble. The soul cannot feed on worldly and sensual objects ; and

what you say of the leanness of soul, in such scenes, is true in

regard to me, as well as you ; and difficult it is to keep up the

disposition to prayer and spiritual-mindedness among such

obstructions as I am now in the midst of. Nor have I any
130 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. diTAT. 47.

thing like the power to preach, &c, here, as you suppose.

The dignitaries have their turns in the Cathedral, so that I have
not the opportunity of preaching Sunday after Sunday. I have,

indeed, been twice in the pulpit; once at the Cathedral, the
other time, at St. Cuthbert's. But I don't expect to preach any
Imore here.
             hope my brother (who remembers you with

affection,) will preach, Sunday after next, himself; the next

Sunday, the Bishop preaches. Still it is here, as elsewhere ;

Ithe few can converse with, on divine things, are the women.

My situation connects me only with the genteel ones of this

place, and of them, there are a small number of women,

who really seem to have a keen appetite, and would thankfully

feed upon the coarsest viands which are trampled under foot by

the fastidious ones in Hull. But our sex seem, in this age, I
mean gentlemen, to have no relish for Jesus. I except old Mr.
Fawcett, our Fawcett's uncle and father-in-law, who, I am glad

******to find, in his old age, seems to be sitting at the feet of Jesus,
and hearing his word. Our Fawcett remembers you gratefully,
                                                     jje preaches,
and will write to you shortly."

occasionally, and has just got a quarter of a year's preaching at

a church, which he gladly embraces.

    "The people here, the aborigines, are a well-behaved,

simple people; the refinement, shall I say, or the lewdness and

impudence, of the southern part of our island, they know not.
They have the sample, I take
                                 I. it,of the manners of the whole

country, in the time of James            But they are withal, very

ignorant in religion they wander as sheep without shepherd.
                       it ;                          a

They seem, however, open to conviction, they have conscience.

There are, here, some Methodist and Dissenting interests, but

feeble and of little weight, nor there dissenter here of any
                                 is

                                                  a

popularity, or, as should seem, of any religious zeal. What

fine field for pastor, steady, fervent, intelligent, and charit
a            a is I a
          !
able Pray ye to the Lord of the harvest, &c. inculcate this
duty on those have access to--forI
                                                     a pitiable thing to see
                                        it
                                             is

                                                  I

                                                                is
the ignorance of this place -- ignorance, rather than contempt of

Divine truth, its character. The Lord may, in his time,

send them such supply. At present their state lamentable

beyond expression.     I     am sorry could not see you at Hull

                                                                    ;
         CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. jETAT. 47.

give my kind love to Mrs. S. If I live, I shall live to run into

more debt to her kindness at Hotham. I am glad you are both

well, and Edward, spes altera Rome. Never mind his thinness,

if his health be sound. The Misses Waugh I see little of.
IRemember me, trust you do, at the throne of grace. May we

remember what we have been taught of Jesus, and never let

it go !  May He keep us, and we shall be kept.

                                    " Ever yo"urJs., MilNER."

     Towards the end of this month the vicarage of the Holy
Trinity Church, in Hull, became vacant by the death of Dr.
Clarke. To this important vicarage Joseph Milner was ap

              22nd of August, by the mayor and corporation
'Ipointed, onthe
              His own     feelings,  upon this   preferment," says
of the town." Dean, "    were thus    expressed    to his friends, in
his brother,
         the

conversation, or by letter.          know not whether, on this

change, I ought more to rejoice or to fear. In regard to the
people, I have long had every opportunity I could wish of

doing them good, through the means of Gospel instruction ; and

I am not sure that my new situation will be favourable to the

better removing of their prejudices, or to my own living more
closely with Christ. An increase of income has no charms for
me ; and indeed, in one point of view, the living of Hull is
much too small for the situation. A minister must be liberal :

a vicar is supposed rich, of course ; and much is expected from

him. The people are often very unreasonable in this matter ;
nevertheless, their prejudices must be consulted, if we wish to
do them good.' * * * ' My apprehensions, also, are not
slight, lest by being necessarily drawn into company of a higher

I Idescription than that to which have long been accustomed,
Imay be less faithful than ought to be, both in words and

actions. The grand spiritual enemy is on the watch, and is
very dexterous in laying snares.' * * * 'The rules of

modern good-breeding strictly forbid one ever to say a plain,

disagreeable truth   to  a man's face  ; but  cthlaesyseasreofnpoetospole.r'ig"idly
adhered to among    the  middling or   lower

A letter from Joseph Milner to his excellent friend the

                                                 K2
132 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797- .STAT. 47.

Rector of Hot ham, written on the occasion of his appointment
to the vicarage of Hull, deserves to be given almost entire.

"To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.
" Dear Still.,
                    find  time,  but  I   "Hull, August 24th, 1797-
    " I scarce can
                                         must drop you a line to let

you know the success, if you have not heard it already. Tuesday

last I was nominated vicar in a full bench. Their number is

thirteen. Of these, eleven voted for me. One did not choose

to vote, the other voted for my scholar,  . This last-

mentioned alderman was                ; and I am not sorry that it

appears on this occasion that he is destitute of influence, for he

is the most steady opposer of Gospel truth and holiness perhaps
of any man in these parts. Old Mr. Sykes was most friendly.
Three other candidates there were, but they had no votes ; nor
did any candidate appear at the day of election but myself.
So evident it was to all men how the thing would turn out.

There was such a concurrence of circumstances, and such an

overbearing and victorious influence from above, overruling and

inclining all persons concerned, that I am constrained to say, It

is of the Lord.

    "My good friend, I would rejoice with trembling. The
same care and fear which I mentioned in my last pervades me.
Pray for me. I had little expected this. I had rather wished

for a removal elsewhere, but so it is ; God hath confined me to

Ithis place, and must say, that by far the majority here are
well pleased with it. I shall have on my hands now both

vicarage, school, and lectureship, and hospital, till Christmas, or
I Inearly.                               can, for I cannot do
must get help as well as

without help. Perhaps I may hope for your help when oppor
tunity serves. I shall have an opportunity to give a little

pecuniary aid to some poor parsons. The long delay which will

take place before the school and lectureship will be filled up, is

to give time to get one (they are to go together) whom they like;

for it is the design of certain persons to eradicate Methodism

from the Church, and that was one reason, I believe, why I was

voted for by several ; they think me a worn-out man who has

very little time to live. So, I find, it is commonly thought
CHAP. IX. A D. 1797. JETAT. 47.           133

among them. In truth I am feeble, but I admire the goodness

of God, in that my voice, my ears, my eyes, and my memory,

are spared, though in everything belonging to bodily strength I
am very feeble. So I seem to have just what may suffice for

preaching, writing, reading, &c, and no other powers. Oh ! that

this heart felt more vigorously and warmly the love of Jesus,

Iwho has done so much for me! What am and what is my

my father's house, that thou hast brought me hitherto ! Thou

Ihast been with me from my youth, forsake me not when am

old and grey-headed ! You, my dear friend, are going down
the hill as well as I, but your strength is green. May you

bring forth more fruit in age, for you have a liveliness of consti

tution vastly more than I. The chief thing is, that we may grow

in grace and spirituality, and give up our ministry and finish

our course with joy. May the Divine Saviour help us in our

besetting evils, that they overpower us not in the decline of

life. Despair not of Hotham, &c. Have an eye to the rising

generation. You have had comfort among them formerly, and

may again. My love to Mrs. Still. The grace of Jesus be with

both, and also with your Edward.   " Yours alway,
                                         "Joseph Milner."

     Such were the feelings with which this good man entered
upon the preferment which he lived to hold not quite three

months.

     The prevailing tone of Dr. Milner's mind at this period is,

likewise, best exhibited by his own letters.

     To Mr. Wilberforce who, with his bride had just left Hull,

the Dean wrote as follows :

" My dear Sir,                               " Hull, August 30th.
    " I will attend to your note.
                                   God preserve you both. I

fear it is hardly in human nature for you to continue very long

so happy as you are at present. ' Why not?' says B*. Really

I hardly know, and I will not be so ill-natured as to set about

inventing and summing up cross-grained probabilities when

Providence smiles on you so graciously."

* Barbara --Mrs. Wilberforce.
IX134                     A.D. 1797. «TAT. 47.
                   CHAP.

     Early in the month of October, 1 797, Dr. Milner thus again
wrote to Mr. Wilberforce, at that time at Bath.

" My dear Sir,                       " Hull, Monday morning.
" Your letter finds me this morning (as you have seen me

not unfrequently,) laid at length on a sofa, in considerable pain

of the head." * * * " I am reviving a little. There i3 really
nothing of which I can speak positively with more certainty

than of the utility which is connected with these repeated chas-

tenings. It is a sad thing that they should be so necessary;
but I bless God, that they do not harden, as I should have

supposed that in time they would, but on the contrary, soften
my heart, and make it more submissive to His will, who knows

what is best for us.

   " Your dear mother is, I doubt not, under the teaching of

the Spirit of God, and will improve by her afflictions : and it is

very evident to me, that in her case also afflictions are necessary.

IWhen she is better for a few days together, see a strong

tendency to relapse and lose ground in spiritual matters ; and,

so far as that goes, it is a bad sign both in her and myself. It

is a bad sign when religious frames depend upon the pulse, yet

it is a good sign when the effect of sufferings is to give us a

clearer insight into "our own character and the character of

God ; for it is in that way only that we can come to understand
our real situation, that is, the relation in which we stand to an

offended God. An inch gained in this way is inestimable,

because it is certainly in the right road.

    " I see your mother every day except Sundays, and, on the

Iwhole, with much satisfaction ; but do yet expect a bright

ening   up.     I  have anticipated  much of what you would feel

    "  I think

on account of poor Eliot's death. Alas ! poor H. Broadley--

the picture of health, and the object of my envy, in that respect,

twenty years ago!

    "Well, our business is to wait God's time, and to mind

and employ the present moment well. God bless you

both.

    " Mr. Recorder Osbourne called on me last Saturday, to ask
CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797- jETAT. 47.                         135

me seriously about Thomason*, professing himself to go on

broad principles of utility. I said everything I could for
Thomason, by declaring that I took him for a Fellow and Tutor
of Queen's, as the best to be found ; but I added, that I had

never heard him preach, and knew nothing of his voice. We

had hoped that all would have gone smooth, but there has just

arisen an opponent that seems to have made great impressions

indeed by his testimonials. An Eton scholar he is said to be,

and of Oxford, and has been a school-teacher already six or

seven years at Lichfield. He is strongly recommended by the

Bishop of London's letters. Osbourne said, he would write to
IGisborne, at Lichfield, to request his opinion.
                                                  need say no

more. Neither you nor I wish for the man who is not the best;

but I observe, that a man with some learning may possibly be

very mischievous in the pulpit, though a tolerable classical

scholar, and not the less so for that. Further, Eton school,

Oxford, the Bishop of London, and such like, are all equivocal,
and I wish I could add, that your friend G
                                            was decisive in

the main points.              "Your most affectionate,  I. M.

" To fVm. Wilberforce, Esq."

    The health of Joseph Milner was now evidently giving way,

yet not to such a degree as to excite in the minds of his friends
any apprehension of immediate danger. Towards the end of
this month his brother thus wrote to Mr. Wilberforce :

" My dear Sir,                " Hull, October IZrd, 1797-
    " My brother's          Iis but bad.  thought I should have
                    asthma

had a very bad account indeed to give of him. He keeps the

Ihouse, and is, hope, something better. I cannot persuade

him to take sufficient care of himself."

The same letter contains some remarks on colleges and

tutors well worth preserving.

    " In regard to your youth, whom you purpose to send to

* A candidate for the situations of Schoolmaster and Lecturer at High
                 ' Church, Hull, resigned by Joseph Milner.
136 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. jETAT. 47.

the University, I have little new to say : you know my ideas,

and have often heard me express them.

     "There is not, in my opinion, much difference in the

colleges, simply quoad              college.  tutors,  as a general system, but,
                                    private
    " I am not fond of

as circumstances are at present, if a good private tutor can be

provided, who will live a good deal with the young man, and

watch him, I think that the likeliest method of insuring

success; that is, freedom from the corruption of numbers of

youths let loose. But then again, I observe, that if you send a

lad to any college, and write to his public tutor, requesting a

good private tutor, the object often is, rather to gratify some

poor Bachelor of Arts than anything else. In regard to the

public tutors of                    I really have no opinion of their

care in morals, &c, at all. James W. is a modest, engaging,

civil man, but without energy, and without principles, in your

and my sense.

    " With us, Queen's, I know but of one man I could trust a

a
                          is,
youth to, that Thomason and to him have recommended
                                    ;
                                                  a

                                                     I

                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                   if
  fellow-commoner this October as private pupil. Thomason,
to be sure, may succeed here, at Hull, next December and

so, all abroad.
is
        is

             I
" This     all                      have to add on the subject, except that, on

supposition tins matter             open next January, will, you
                                    is
a
                                                 I
  II                                                                                             1

      it,                                                          I

                                                                               if
desire look about, and do the best can.                 can find

    " am now looking about for the very best man

as public tutor for us, at Queen's.
" think of you both with unremitting prayers and affection.
                                              " Yours,
                                                        I.                                          M."

         great change had now for years been silently and graA
dually passing upon the character of Dr. Milner. He was no
       is
longer ambitious he had learned to acquiesce cordially in the
actual dispensations of Providence. An evidence of the truth:

of what here affirmed may be found in the increasing interest
which, in the succeeding years of his life, he manifestly took in
the performance of his duties as Dean of Carlisle; and, although

the prospects which subsequent occurrences, on more than one
                 CHAP. IX. A.L). 1797. JETAT. 47.  137

occasion, opened to his view were such as might well have
afforded food for ambition, that passion never regained its hold
upon his mind. This was a natural consequence of his
advancement in the Christian character; but had the fact been

otherwise, a calamity was at hand which was calculated effec

tually to wean his affections from earthly objects.
     The time was now approaching when the close union and

most tender affection which, from childhood, had subsisted
between Dr. Milner and his elder brother, was to be interrupted
by death.

     Mr. Milner's last illness is ascribed by his friend Mr. Stil-
lingfleet, who compiled a Memoir of his life, to a cold, caught
on his journey to York for institution to his vicarage, in the
latter end of September, 1797-

     During this illness of his brother, Dr. Milner, in a state of
very great affliction and agitation of mind, wrote to Mr. Wil-

berforce a hurried letter, dated, " Hull, Tuesday, 1797."
    From this letter the following passages are extracted :--

" My dear Friend,
    " I know you profess never to be much moved at any event;

still, I believe, if you had been with me for the last fortnight,

your compassionate heart would have been deeply affected.

    " I must be very short ; I am not able to write. A consi

derable fever, with an increase of asthma, has come upon my

poor brother, and brought him to the very gates of death. He

still remains in a most critical situation; I very much doubt

whether he will recover. This is not fear, but reality.

    " My constant and persevering prayer has been for resig
nation and support, -- but, alas ! alas ! I can just say from
experience, ' the Lord knows how to be gracious, if we could

but trust Him,' and no more. Oh ! my dear friend, there is a

something on this occasion crowds upon my mind, so thick and

so close, that I should have been overwhelmed but for God's

especial mercy.  A deal of this is bodily; I am weak, nervous,
and worn-out.    ' Multis vulneribus oppressus, huic uni me

imparem sensi.' Then from a very child I have lived with this

only brother ; he has been kind to me beyond description, and
138 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. jETAT. 47.

a faithful adviser in illness on a thousand occasions. Lastly,

no man's affections were, perhaps, ever so little divided by a

variety of friendships as mine. For years past, I have said ten
Ithousand times, that I would exhort a youth whom wished

to be happy in this world, to know more people and to love

them less. Yet God does not absolutely give me up to grief.
   " Farewell, and remember me most affectionately to Mrs. W.

who will drop a tear.
     " N.B. My brother's mind is so happy, that it can hardly

be in a more desirable state. ' The promises are sure.' Yester

day I was told that he has had your book in his hands for

several days, and that he likes it better and better; and says he

should have written to you. When I talked to him last, I

could get nothing from him but ' Let not your heart be

troubled,' &c, &c.

   I" am very unfit to write, but duty presses me to say

briefly, that the election of a school-master and lecturer will

take place on the 5th of December.

    " It will be a sad thing if High Church be deprived of both
Iits pastors, morning and afternoon.
                                      am utterly unable to see
any one, or take any further steps ; indeed, I believe I have
done what I can for Thomason.
" Yours affectionately,
                                                 I. M."

     The closing scenes of Joseph Milner's life are thus described
by Mr. Stillingfleet :--

    " The fever being removed, there were hopes of his reco
very, till within a very few days of his death." * * "On the
day preceding his death, he went through the duties of his
family in a very serious and particular manner, intimating, as
some concluded from expressions which he used, that his end

was probably not far off. Having ended his family worship, he
went to the chamber of his niece*, with whom he lived, and

who had lain in only a few days ; and after praying with her,
and wishing her a good night, retired to his room. At first,

he seemed to sleep tolerably easy; but after some time, one of

* The wife of Thomas Wilberforce Crompton, Esq.
             CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. jETAT. 47.  139

the persons who sat up with him perceived that he was seized
with a hiccup, and that he breathed with some difficulty.
Soon after the attendants, finding all remarkably still, and
being rather alarmed, drew near to the bed-side, and found
that he had indeed breathed his last."

     In the interval between the fever here spoken of, and
Mr. Milner's death, he wrote the following letters :--

"Dearest Isaac*,
* * * "In truth, it is quite a merciful state that things

are in. I breathe vastly well ; asthma seems to have no
Iexistence.
             have been refreshed with sleep, and am quite a

different thing from other mornings. Surely the fever is much

Iabated; am not so languid ; in short, I am in a more natural

state than since it commenced. I am going to get my common
milk diet, and feel the right appetite. Let us be thankful to

God, and not be moved because everything is not as we could

wish. I recommend you to the Friend of sinners, to study and

meditate upon His character, doctrine, example: this is hap

piness.           " Yours alway,              J. M."

    The letter next following was written by Mr. Milner, in
answer to his brother, who, not being able to support an inter
view with him, had in writing " besought " him to teach him,
" as his last kindness, some lessons of resignation, --a Christian
grace in which he found himself miserably deficient."

"Dear Brother,                    " November, 1797 '.
" Resignation to the Divine will is one of the last and

highest attainments of the Christian life; it is what is ulti

mately to be aimed at, as essential to comfort here and

happiness hereafter. But it seems not by any means to be the

first object of one who is desirous of becoming a Christian, nor

even attainable, except some other necessary things are pre-

* The first sentence of this letter has reference to his brother's state of
                                                        health.
140 CHAP. IX. A.I). 1797. JETAT. 47.

viously acquired. For me to have my will in unison with the

will of God, I must, in the first place, trust Him thoroughly,

and love Him supremely; for it is impossible for me freely to

give up my will to another entirely, while we are on bad terms;

    ;

      is,

                      I
                                                                 I
that  so long as cannot trust him, and so long as hate

him or what, in this case, comes to the same thing, love any

person or thing better than him. The conclusion is, all attempts

at resignation will be vain, without conversion and reconciliation

with God.

    " When we are convinced of the sinfulness and misery of

our natural state,  high point of wisdom to seek, by prayer
                    it
                        is

                            a
                                    is

                                                                                                   !

                                                                       '
and diligent searching of the Scriptures, that only right and

effectual method of relief which God has provided.                                                    Repent

and believe the Gospel,' the first thing. We should not

stir from this direction, till we have some good ground of

evidence, that we do repent and believe. Alas our guilt and

wickedness are much deeper and larger than we are apt to

suspect; and our pride fights, with inexpressible obstinacy,

against all just conviction. But let us not be discouraged:

things impossible with men, are possible with God. Let us

pray, not now and then only, but constantly. Life                                                     short;
                                it

                                   if is

                                                                          is
we have no other business that ought to interfere with this.
It should be the perpetual, as
                                the most important employ

ment of the soul. The Scriptures daily meditated on, will

supply us with instruction; and we persevere, our business

in religion will doubtless be made, in time, our chief pleasure.
A thorough insight into human emptiness and worldly vanity,

a  complete conviction of the evil of sin, even in our own

particular case, and desire to forsake  altogether, solid
                    a

                                                   it

                                                                       is
                                                                                       a
discernment of the complete sufficiency of Christ to save us in
all respects -- these things, in daily seeking unto God, are to be

attained. We are not so ready to pray as God to hear. He

delights to magnify his Son Jesus, and to show what He can and

will do for us through Him. He calls us to nothing in our own

strength; and as we cannot have, so we need not think of

having, any worthiness of our own. We may come and take

freely, what He freely bestows --and, my dear brother, when

once, in this way, you can steadfastly rely on the Divine
CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. MTXT. 47.  141

promises through Christ, so sure as ' faith worketh by love,'
you will find yourself enabled to love God ; and it is in Christ
Jesus that his love will be seen. A union and fellowship with

Christ will take place; and it is the sweetest and the pleasantest
sensation which the human mind can know. Though the

effervescence of it be but short and momentary, and by very

transient glances, yet its steady energy is real and powerful.
For to encourage us, we should remember the interest we have
in Him by the ties of a common nature. The second and
fourth chapters of the Epistle to the Hebrews represent this

point strongly. You may think I deviate from the subject of
Resignation, but I know no other way of coming to it. Once

brought to love Christ above all, we shall love other persons
in the best manner, in subordination. Even to part with

dearest friends will be practicable, because (1 Thess. iv. 14) 'if

we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also
which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.' When we can
feel any genuine love to God in Christ, we shall be led to such
an acquiescence in his wisdom and goodness, that we shall
choose his will to take place, rather than ours; and the thought

how soon all things shall be set right in a future life, and that

He makes all things to work together for good, will reconcile the
mind to anything that God pleases. And though the dissolu
tion of soul and body be always a serious thing, and against
the feelings of nature, yet a mind whose hope and desire are
with Jesus, and which has a constant thirst for spiritual enjoy
ments as true felicity, and which is loosened from all worldly

attachments, must, on the whole, wish for death rather than

life, as we all wish most, for that which has most of our heart:
but the love of God will teach such a one to resign himself, as
to the time, to his heavenly Father's will. You will not

mistake me, I hope, as if I supposed that all true Christians

have learnt all this completely: far from it. But these things
are learnt by them in a measure; but not without much conflict,
opposition from sinful nature all along, and much imperfection.
And though it is not easy to confine by rules the order of the
Spirit's operations, yet this seems the general order of Christian
virtues, viz., repentance, faith, love, resignation.
142 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797- /ETAT. 47.

    " In Christ himself resignation was perfect; ' Not my will
but thine be done;' and as far as we can trust in Him for grace,

so far we may receive grace out of his fulness. Among mere
men, St. Paul seems the completest pattern of resignation.

What a tremendous view is that of his sufferings in the latter
part of 2 Cor. xi ! But how practicable did the love of God
make everything to him! In Philippians iv., 11, 12, 13, he

tells us that he had learned to be content in any state, and that

he could do all things through Christ which strengthened him;

and the original word for 'had learned' fie/ivrifiai, alluding to

the Pagan mysteries, shows that the learning was of a myste

rious nature.

    " Dear brother, I write in the fulness of affection, wishing
you to make it your main business to learn these things. I am

far from thinking that your long course of afflictions has been

against your acquiring them. Oh ! let us beg for patience to
lie as clay in the hands of His infinite wisdom, who knows how

to humble our pride, and to break our wills, and to form us to

a conformity to Himself ! And may you be helped to a steady

course of praying, and of seeking God, with a willingness to

"Igive up all for Christ !
          have been looking at Dr. Johnson's* Life. The man
was unfaithful to his convictions, for the most part of his life

at least. Had he been humbled before God, he would have

been despised in the world, but would have been comfortable
in his own soul. May Christ Jesus visit you, and lead you,

dear brother, to true rest.                    " Yours, J. M."

   If the  following extract    from a letter  "wtrhitetenlastbyletJtoesrephhe
           Mr. Stillingfleet,  and docketed
Milner to

ever wrote," be thought to discover some confusion of intellect,

it will, nevertheless, by all who loved the writer, or who revere

   * This name is now supplied from       omit Dr. Johnson's name ; but there
the manuscript letter. Dr. Milner,
who has inserted this letter in his Life  seems now no reason to suppress
of his Brother, has thought proper to
                                          Joseph Milner's opinion of the reli-
                                          gious character of that eminent man.
        CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. jBTAT. 47.            143

his memory, be read with interest, as affording satisfactory
evidence of a heart at peace with God.

    " I dare say, dear sir, you have no conception how decayed
I am. I feel listless, hopeless, sluggish, no heart to stir about
at all. Indeed, when I can really stir, which is but little, I am

soon jaded; for the loaded vapours make it bad breathing, and

that is a trouble by night and by day. If it please God that

still any part of the igneus vigor should remain a little longer

in me, let me beg you to pray to Him to quicken me and over

come my languor. He has dealt marvellously with me of late.

I have had a wonderfully instructive dream about Hull. * *

Let us trust, be patient, love our Saviour, and wait for his

second coming. May I learn obedience by the things which I
have suffered. My kind love to Mrs. Still., who, if I get a little
Irecover)' of strength, may seem shortly likely to see me.

beg your love; after the flesh it is sweet, but after the spirit it

is sweeter still, and far better.
I" But am knocked up with fatigue.
                                   " Yours alway,
" To the Rev. J. Stillingfleet."              " Joseph Milner.

It is needless, and might, in this place, be deemed improper,

to enter into any detail of the character and history of Joseph

Milner. It may suffice to observe, in general, that he had

effectually lived down the opposition which, during one part of

his ministry at Hull, had raged against him.

     Those persons who are anxious to understand that great

change in Mr. Milner's religious sentiments, that " revolution

which,  notwithstanding    that his moral character had hitherto
        without spot,"
been "                   that he had been " regular, temperate,

and decorous, in his external conduct, orthodox in his religion,

and loyal in his political sentiments," was nevertheless so

decisive and complete, that, "from about the year 1770, to the

day of his death, he became, entirely and sensibly, a different

man from what he had been before; and in public and in private,

        See Life of the Rev. Joseph Milner.
144 CHAP. IX. A.1J. 1797. jETAT. 47.

and in every part of his conduct, illustrated and confirmed, by

fhis personal example, the precepts which he zealously incul
cated       such persons may find full information upon the

important subject which occupies their attention, in The Life
of Joseph Milner, by his brother the Dean; a publication which,

besides its rare excellence as a faithful and impartial memoir,

and a monument of the most tender, and perhaps almost

unexampled fraternal gratitude and affection, exhibits, in the
most perspicuous manner, those views of Christian truth which

were equally and alike entertained by both these excellent

men.

    Mr. Milner survived his election to the vicarage of Hull

only a few weeks. He died November 15, 1797; and "if lives

were to be measured by what men do, rather than by the suc

cession of fleeting moments, his life would be found sufficiently

long."

Several gentlemen, who had been pupils of the Rev. Joseph

Milner, showed their love and reverence for their instructor by

erecting a monument to his memory, in the High Church at
Hull.

The following touching and elegant monumental inscription,
afterwards discovered to be written by a " clergyman of great
J.erudition, zeal, and piety," the Rev.
                                         Michel], of King's

College, Cambridge, who had not the least personal acquaint

ance with Mr. Milner, was received by Dr. M. soon after his

publication of his brother's life, and may be best inserted

under this date. It was inclosed in an anonymous letter con
taining the following words: --

    " The writer of this inscription was warmed by the perusal

of Dr. Milner's two performances, The Life of the Reverend
Joseph Milner, and the Preface to the second volume of the

History of the Church of Christ, and gave this utterance to his

feelings."
            CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. J5TAT. 47.                                            145

                                   SISTE LECTOR
          ET VIRTUTEB CHRISTIANAS CONTEMPL, ARE,

             JOSEPHI MILNER, A.M.

                 VIR FUIT INOENIO SINGULARI,
           DOCTRINA, PIETATE, MORUM INNOCENTIA,
       VITJE SIMPLICITATE, CONTINENTIA, INDUSTRIA

                                SPECTATISSIMU8 :
    IN DOCENDO, IN CONCIONANDO, IN SACRO OFFICIO

                                    EXEQUENDO,

                IMPIOER, ATO.DE incorruptus:

   IN RELIOIONE 8INE FUCO EXORNANDO, SINE METU

                                           A88ERENDA,
                  SINE AMBAGIBUS DEMONSTRANDA,
            POTENS, LUCULENTUS, INTEGERRIMU8 :

       NOV* ECCLESIASTICS HISTORIC SCRIPTOR,
                IN QUA QUANTUM CHRISTI GRATIA

             IN PIORUM ANIMUS DIVINITUS EFFUSA
    CONTRA OMNK8 ADVERSARIORUM INSIDIAS, IRAS,

                                       IMPETUS,

                   ARROGANTIAM, DOMINAT1ONEM,
      VICTRIX EVASERIT ET SEMPER EVASURA SIT,
  EX UNDIQUE INVESTIGATE ANNALUM MONUMENTIS

             CONQUISIV1T, EXPRES8IT, VINDICAVIT.
        EVANGELICI AMORIS, VERITATIS AC FIDEI,
QUjE ADEO FORTITER, ADEO FELICITER DBFENDERAT,

                               VIVA INDICIA
                      EXEMPLO 8UO COMPROBAVIT.

                        IN MEDIO OPERUM CURSU,
          REBU8 ARDUIS OB DEI GLORIAM GERUNDIS

                 NEC IMPAREM, NEC DEFATIGATUM,
                     NEC SUIS CONFISUM VIRIBUS,
                             ABRIPUIT MORS,

          OMNIBUS BONIS PRjETER SE ACERBISSIMA,

                ANN. DOM. 1797. -ET. LIIII.

                                  BANC TABULAM
                     IN TANTI VIRI MEMORIAM
 QUEM VIVUM AMORE PLUSQUAM FRATERNO DILEXIT,
  QUEM MORTUUM DESIDERIO ET MENTE GRATIS8IMA

                                  PROSEQUITUR,
                                  PONI CURAVIT

              ISAACUS MILNER,

                              PRATER SUPERSTE8

                                                SPE
    CONJUNCTIONS FUTURjE IN CtELO PER CHRISTUM

            INDIVIDUjE, SANCTISSIHJt, BEATISSIM.*,
                                  SEMPITERNiE.

                                                                                    L
146 CHAP. IX. A.l). 1797. /F.TAT. 47.

    It would be totally vain to attempt to convey an adequate
idea of the effect produced upon Dr. Milner's exquisitely

affectionate heart, by the death of his brother. The mutual
affection of these brothers, united as they were in the bonds of

christian, as well as natural friendship, had been, throughout

life, unusually tender ; and the termination, so far as regards
this world, of such a companionship, could not but be exceed
ingly bitter. There is a sorrow which exhausts, or dissipates
itself, in the display of sensibility; but the grief of Isaac
Milner for the loss of his brother, was of a deeper and more

permanent nature, and may be best expressed in his own simple

words: " Perhaps no two brothers were evermore closely bound

to each other. Isaac, in particular, remembers no earthly thing,
without being able, in some way, to connect it tenderly with
his brother Joseph. During all his life, he has constantly
aimed at enjoying his company, as much as circumstances
permitted. The dissolution of such a connexion could not
take place without being severely felt by the survivor. No
separation was ever more bitter or afflicting ; with a constitution
long shattered by disease, he never expects to recover from

that wound." Nor did he ever recover. " The world," as he
frequently said, " never looked like itself," to him " again."

     His feelings upon the occasion of this domestic calamity
will, however, still further appear, from some confidential letters

referring to his brother's death, and to the composition of the
memoir of him, so often cited in this work.

     On the very day of his brother's decease, Dr. Milner wrote
to Mr. Wilberforce the following most affecting letter: --

" Oh !    my dearest  friend,         " Wednesday morning, Hull.

                               my beloved brother's last words,

or nearly so, were, that 'Jesus was now doubly, doubly precious

to him.'
"I" Christ called him to himself this morning about seven.

     keep to myself as much as possible, and pray --but,
Iindeed, my dear friend,
                          fear this may be the last letter you

will ever receive from me.

   "If the event, which, however, is not worse than the suspense,
CHAP. IX. A.D. 1797. /ETAT. 47.                            147

should prove too much for my weak frame, and already half-

broken heart, remember, there was a corner in that heart pre

Iserved to the last for you and your half. Oh ! that had followed
Ihis steps; or had now strength, as have some heart, in the

dregs of life to follow them, in warning a thoughtless world!

   I" I wish tears would come ; should be easier.
    " Farewell-- I had almost forgotten the principal motive that

made me struggle to write at this sad moment ; viz., that you

may lose no time,- if you think' you can do anything, towards

getting a godly vicar. It will be a sad thing if God should

punish a careless town by taking away the gospel from its

principal church. I would have exerted myself for Thomason,
but I can do little or nothing beyond what I have already
done. If you saw me' --how thin, and Iweak, and shattered
am, you would feel for me. Yet-- I have a good hope*. God

does not forsake me. With love to B.,

                                "Yours,               I. M."

It is impossible to read this touching letter, without

observing the solid evidence which it affords of that piety

which was now become a leading characteristic of the writer's

mind. From his youth he had regarded his brother with an

intense affection ; yet at the sad moment when he communi

cates to his own dearest friend the death of this brother, the

idea uppermost in his mind, is the procuring of " a godly vicar,"

for the bereaved town of Hull.

     On the 5th of December, 1797? Mr. Wilberforce, with
reference to the death of Joseph Milner, thus wrote to Lord
Muncaster : " Your sympathetic kindness had too well antici

pated Isaac Milner's feelings. He is the most affectionate of
Ibrothers, and the loss has been like tearing off a limb.
                                                           hope

it,
        it

                                     a
he will get over but has shaken him sadly."

     Severe affliction has sometimes tendency to diminish the
sympathy of the sufferer with the joys or sorrows of others -- to
harden, rather than to soften the heart. No such effect, how

ever, was produced upon Dr. Milner. On the contrary, his

Thrice undcrstrokcd in the original manuscript.

                                             L

                                                   2
148 CHAP. IX. A.l). 1798. ETAT. 48.

own deep distress seemed rather to add fervour to his naturally

warm affections, and, in an especial manner, to dispose him

either to " rejoice" or to " weep" with his friends. His letters, at
this period, to Mr. Wilberforce, in whose domestic happiness
he sincerely rejoiced, arc full of such expressions as " God bless
you --may God continue his favours -- his uncommon favours --

to you both."

    It is very generally known, that Dr. Milner was in the habit

of using opium as a medicine. To the use and value of that

medicine, in his case, those who knew him intimately can bear

testimony.  Upon this subject, some misapprehension has

existed ; it may be sufficient to say, that by Dr. Milner this

drug was never, at any period of his life, used otherwise than

strictly as a medicine, and by the concurring advice of the first

physicians of the day. How effectual it was in enabling him to

dedicate to the noblest uses, what he truly called, the " shattered

remains" of his health, is known only to the very few persons

whose privilege it was to witness his daily habits, and to enjoy

his domestic society.

These observations have been suggested by the sight of a

letter addressed, about this time, to Mr. Wilberforce, comprising

some valuable remarks upon the proper use of the powerful

medicine in question; and affording an additional proof of Dean

Milner's ever ready sympathy with the afflictions of his friend,

who was himself compelled to make use of opium.

The following letter will, probably, be considered highly

valuable, both as exhibiting the reality and depth of Dr.

Milner's piety, together with his fervent and tender affection

towards his departed brother, and as throwing light on some

other matters which cannot be deemed uninteresting.

            "To the Rev. William Richardson*.

"My deak Sir,                 " Cambridge, Queen's        College  Lodge,
    " I cannot give
                                             February 3,  1798.
                          satisfactory reason for          but so
*                    any

                                                                      it,
                                                                                    it

                                                               iIs,
dread either to see, or to write to, any of my brother's dear and

The late Rev. William Richardson of York, one of the most intimate
                                 friends of Joseph Milner.
              CIXAP. IX. A.I). 1788. /ETAT. 4B.                 149

particular friends. Therefore I have written nothing to any of

them, except where there was an absolute necessity for so

doing. While I remained at Hull, I dreaded the approach of
good Stillingfleet ; and at last, when I understood he was

coming to see me, I summoned courage to tell him, by letter,
Ithat could not venture to admit him--yet, he had written to

the  most kind                  and affectionate letter that ever was penned.
     say again,                     cannot explain the cause of the violent
"IIme
agitation which, I foresee, would take place, on an interview

either with you or him ; but I feel, that it would be so,

certainly: and I know not whether I should survive it. This

apprehension is not fancy.                                      is,       in

    " A sense of suffocation, which is truly most alarming,       I

my case, readily brought on by any violent affection of theI
spirits. You may well suppose that have been on my guard,
as well as can -- but this severe trial has been too much for

me. 'Tot vulneribus jam perculsus, huic uni me imparem
I
sensi et pene succubui.' Indeed           it      of God's special mercy,
   II                                         is
          I
that am alive! But, you will say, does not every man lose;

near friends and relations      ?                 He was the only near

    " Not many in such circumstances.;

relation had in the world and was brought up with himI
from a child-- remember him as far back as remember any
                                                      I
thing, and we went to school together, for many years, Still,

own, there are cases quite as afflictive as this; and probably

several without the same mitigating considerations --mitigat

ing, do call                    to be able to say, have no doubt, whatever,
it                                        I'

   is I

              it

                             ?
that he in heaven!' This is, indeed, a glorious reflection,               ! I if

and should heal my broken heart. It would, no doubt,

reason had much to do in such matter but reason pushed
                                       a        II ;     is is

aside by affection, self-love, and unsubdued passions.
     "There is, however, in religion, reality; thank God,
                                          ;           I

                                             a
can say so, on the best foundation viz., that in that way, and

in no other, experience some relief.                grasp, therefore, that
     I
         I
help, as firmly as can--but still, dear Sir, my heart broken
Don't tell me how much you have felt-- know, and am sure,

you have.

     " My dear brother requests Mr. Stillingfleet and yourself to
150  CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. .ETAT. 4(1.

take the trouble to consider what papers, if any, may be proper

to be published, and mentions his agreement in sentiment with
Iyou two, as among his reasons for making this request.
                                                         am

very sensible that publication will be a matter requiring much

deliberation. The sermons I have sent you are not half of

those which he has left.

   I" Doubtless his writings are not correct ; but know not

whether you may not agree with me in judgment, who am less

surprised at finding many defects of that sort, than at finding

them so correct as they are, when I consider his numerous

avocations, the quantity that he wrote in a little time, and

lastly, that he never conied over again anything at all. I know

several excellent scholars, who all think, that they never knew

any one man, who was so uniformly master of his thoughts as

to be at all times able to write so correctly as he did, with so

much quickness. The fact is, his mind was always at work, in

all possible situations, and overflowed with weighty matter.

He was an original thinker ; and appears to me always to drive

steadily at the point he had in view ; and he never took up his

pen, without a distinct subject. Some,- who were not fond of

his sentiments, have represented his matter as frequently indi

gested; but, in proof, they can only produce faulty expressions;
and these are no proof of indigested matter. His expressions

were hasty, but his matter was deep and copious, and had cost

him a world of thought ; he had considered it over and over

Iagain. In his compositions have frequently noticed a consider

able obscurity merely from the want of some short explanatory

sentences. When these were inserted in their proper places,

at the beginning, or towards the end of a subject, or sometimes

in the body of a composition, many pages would thus, at once,

by such slight insertions, be made right, and become luminous,

with very little trouble; which pages, otherwise, appeared

almost impenetrable. Such little short sentences as these which

I allude to, he often, when he was preaching, felt the want of,

at the moment; and he supplied them extempore, and so

rendered his addresses perspicuous ; and, even, if he had

omitted to insert them in the right place, he could still, after

wards, in speaking, supply the defect, though not so neatly;
           CUM'. IX. A.D. 17U8. JETAT. 48.                                 151

but, in writing, his mind being ever intent upon the matter, he

frequently forgot, that his audience had not digested, and made
familiar to their understandings, his argumentations ; and so

omitted to point out precisely what he was about ; when a very
short sentence or two, sometimes in the way of hint, or general
observation, sometimes in the way of premising, or summing

up, would have enabled his hearers, or readers, to go easily and
pleasantly along with him, when, otherwise, they had lost the

whole clue.

    " All this has so much the appearance of apologizing for the

defects of my dear brother, that, for fear of being thought very

partial to him, I should certainly never have said what I have

said so freely, but for two things that occurred to my mind :

           iIs,

                        is
                             a

                            I
the first  know you loved him so well that, you be not
                                                           it if
quite  so partial to  him as am, still you           will  bear with me.
       The second          curious fact, and         will  state briefly.
    "                                            II

"To my knowledge, several persons of the first literary

eminence in this country, and of very high rank in other

respects, have expressed themselves in the strongest terms of

approbation of him as writer, and in particular of the second

and third volumes of his Ecclesiastical History, --'The matter
      I it

           is

                    I :I
                                         a
                                             is
well arranged, the sentiments bold and pertinent, the style
nervous, glowing, and perspicuous.' At the same time they

add, that the first volume                       much inferior to the other two,

and that the author had improved exceedingly as he went on.

Now        true, that took a good deal of pains with the second

and third volumes the first volume had never seen, but
                                                           a
have the copy of the second and third volumes by me to prove
                                                               is I
what       say, when  do assure you, that the corrections are         is I

slight, and consist chiefly of such little interpolations as have

been describing to you: they were necessary for elucidation,

and yet are by no means numerous. Sometimes sentence

thrown out as superfluous very often a worse word by me
           a
                                 is ;

                                           is
introduced instead of the better, merely to avoid a repetition of

that word,-- fault of which he was often guilty; and, lastly,

the latter part of a sentence often put first, with no other

alteration whatever, and        thus marked in the copy,          2
                                                                              1,

signifying that what stood first must be printed last. These
152 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. JETAT. 48.

alterations unquestionably make the book more pleasant to

read, and improve the perspicuity; but as to any essential

alteration in the style, or any merit on my part, except a little

labour, no such things exist; nor did I perceive that he himself

had particularly improved. His style had been formed long

ago. You know how closely he wrote his copy; and I assure

you, the original rough copy was the copy from which we

printed. The effect which, as above explained, the insertion of a

few very short sentences appears to have had upon the judgment

of the public, has surprised me exceedingly. I could not have

believed the effect to have been anything like so great, -- but so

it certainly is ; and this is my reason for explaining the matter

so fully to you now, though perhaps you yourself may have

observed it.

   " Here I cannot but lament, that in publishing any of his

papers we have irrecoverably lost the assistance of the author.

I read the manuscript at first along with him; and when I

noticed any obscurity, he could instantly explain what he had

intended, and what was the scope of many pages to come ; we

immediately inserted a line or two, and thus much time was

saved. Now, I fear, whether it be in sermons or essays, there

may be several blanks of that sort, which it will be very difficult

to  fill  up.

     "    I beg  pardon,  dear Sir, for giving you  such a deal of

Itrouble.        am sadly fatigued with writing so much ; my head

aches grievously, and I hardly know what I have written ; the

whole, however, is directly from the heart, and is accompanied

with great agitation and many tears.

    " Remember me at the throne of grace, and

           " Believe me to be yours most affe"ctIisoanaatcely,Milner."

     The manuscript copy of this letter is blotted with tears.
     With regard to the improvement in his brother's style,
effected by Dr. Milner, his own account is such as might be

expected from a tenderly attached and partial relative. It is

probable, however, that few persons will participate in the

surprise which he expresses at the effect produced by his own
                  CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. /ETAT. 48.                               15.J

alterations of his brother's manuscripts ; since those alterations
are exactly such as are required to transform a forcible, but
inaccurate and inelegant style, into one remarkable for precision

and correctness.

     The foregoing letter will leave upon the minds of all whoit,
read full conviction of the exquisite sensibility with which
Dr. Milner felt the loss of his brother. Such, however, was thea

elasticity of his mind, that in other letters, written about the

same period, his style cheerful and even sportive.

    The following extract taken from letter to Mr. Wilber-
                  a
                            is

                                  is
                                                                a
                                                                  is
                                                                                                 9,
force, to whom, few days before, he had addressed a remon

strance on his taking " too little interest in public business, and
speaking too little on great questions." It dated " March

1798."

" am sorry you have been but indifferent           can sigh with
    II                               I

                                                   if
                                                                                                      ;
                                                                    I

                                                                             II
                                                                                                                                                 !
you.    don't mean always to excuse your writing; but really

can excuse you now and then, B. will condescend to send

me such letters as                   received yesterday. Famous verses

spirits light; and very cheerful. Yet, God bless her! see

through all much seriousness. 'We are odd mixtures, Mr.

Dean,' she'll say.                                 taxes will

    " have just discovered, that my assessed
    I

                                                                                                 '
amount to above 200/. I'll change sides directly, and cry No

Pitt!'
    " The numerous windows in these rambling old buildings

are the cause.                         " Yours,                                 M."

                  "f",

                                                                            I.
     The following letter, addressed to the aged mother of his
friend Mr. Carlyle*, on the occasion of the premature death of
her grandson and written while the wound which his own
heart had received was still fresh, will afford another and a
strong evidence of that sensibility to the sorrows of others,

   * Chancellor of the diocese of Car  for his piety as well as for his extraor
lisle, and Professor of Arabic in the
University of Cambridge.               dinary talents. He died March 10th,
                                       1798, at the age of ten years.
       George Carlyle, boy remarkable
t

                                  a
 154 CHAP. IX. A.D. !7i)8. /ETAT. OS.

 which has already been mentioned as a distinguishing trait in
 the character of Dean Milner.

                       " To Mrs. Carlyle.
" Dear Mrs. Carlyle,

    " The author of that sweet little tract which I sent to the

 Chancellor the other day took occasion, not a very long while
 ago, on the meeting and conversation of a few friends, who had
 not seen one another for some time, to make this observation :

I' always notice,' said he, ' that when friends meet together

after any considerable absence, and begin to compare notes,
there constantly appears to have been one or more of their

common acquaintance that have died during the interval.' I
replied, ' It is very true, and the repetition of such awful

admonitions, respecting the uncertainty of human life, ought to
have a great deal more effect on our minds than it usually has ;
we ought to take warning, and be prepared for that great
change, which may happen very soon, and certainly will not
delay long. But, alas ! how transitory arc our feelings on the
sight of a funeral, or on the news of the departure of our

ordinary friends and acquaintance! Some surprise may be

expressed, and perhaps a few pathetic exclamations may break
forth; but all this is short and fleeting; neither conversation
nor business is interrupted, and we sleep quite as well at night.

Not so, however,' continued I, · when the deceased friend or

relative was very near our heart ; our pangs are then genuine ;
we think it almost a crime to take pleasure in anything ; the
world does not look like itself ; and if our hearts do not abso

lutely break, they are yet never as they were before.'

   I" While was making this answer to Mr. N. my heart was
exceedingly full, and I could hardly proceed; but as some

persons were present before whom it would have been less
proper to have opened my mind, the conversation became
general, and very useful, on Christian resignation.

    "You need not be alarmed; I have not taken up my pen to

write you a sermon, or even a long essay, but rather to assure
you, that not a single day has passed, for some weeks, in which
your mournful situation has not, many times in that day, been
CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. jETAT. 48.                  155

Ipresent to my afflicted imagination.  know well what you

must have felt, and what you must continue to feel. I have

often thought it my duty to write to you, and as often have

wanted courage and nerves, or have been deterred by the idea

of doing no good.

   " If I have ventured at last to trouble you with a few of my
thoughts, you will, I hope, not think me impertinent, but

will excuse me, if on no other ground, at least on the ground
Ithat by thus writing,
                        relieve, in some measure, my own

poor heart.

    " The observations which make the first page of this letter,

recurred to my mind the instant I took up my pen ; and I put
them down, because I felt assured that you were in a condition

"Ito understand their meaning and to feel their full force.
           shall make no attempts to mitigate your sorrows, by

putting you in mind how many comforts still remain to you, or by

comparing your situation with my own. I have lost the only near
relation I had in the world ; one who has often proved himself

a sincere friend and a faithful adviser, during an illness of many

years' standing. ' What relief/ you will say, ' can I derive from
such considerations? Have not I lost a dear lad whose fellow

was not to be found? a dear lad who was, perhaps, nearer my

heart than any one of my own children ? He was the cordial of

my old age. It is true I possess many valuable blessings --but

he is gone, and with his departure all else has lost its relish.'
Oh ! Mrs. Carlyle ! I understand all this but too well ; my own
Iheart bleeds while refresh and increase your sorrows, and my
Ieyes will soon be swollen if permit myself to go on in this
Istrain. Oh ! what pleasing prospects had drawn to my imagi
                                 Iand connexion
nation, from the future company                  should have
with that extraordinary boy !"   * * * " My poor brother
Ispoke of him from the first week that he knew him, as never

heard him speak of any other child. My brother hated the

refined mummery of modern ceremony, and he loved George

for his natural simplicity and love of truth. Then he (George,)

was an invalid, and passionately fond of history ; so had my

brother been all his life.

    " But no more of this ; why do I feed this consuming
156 CHAP. IX. A.D. 17U8- jETAT. 48.

worm ? Beyond dispute, the loss is great, and not to be calcu

lated. Yet there is a way of repairing it. I say there is a way,

and but one, of relieving these melancholy and bitter reflections.

I bless God that there is such a way -- no man on earth stands
more in need of it than I. Naturally soft and affectionate, I am,

by long continued indisposition, grown so exceedingly irritable,
that any great affliction would absolutely overwhelm me, if

Almighty God did not enable me to lay hold of, and grasp hard,

those divine supports which religion furnishes. But let me come
to the point. I ask you, is it not a most reasonable, and at the

same time, a most unspeakable comfort, to be able to say with

certainty, that our friends at this moment are actually in

heaven, enjoying, and there to enjoy for evermore, the company

of God and his Christ, and of angels and good men? And

yet, in the two recent instances to which I refer, I find every
word that implies less than certainty to be improper; and I
Ispeak here with the same positiveness that do of the truth
of religion itself. In regard to one of the cases, I forbear,
at present, to enumerate reasons ; and of the other, I need

only just observe, that though doubtless a partaker of the

corruption of human nature common to all, and indebted to

Christ's atoning blood for salvation, yet when I put together

these things, viz., the ingenuousness of his temper, his very few

actual sins, comparatively speaking, and the remarkable good

will and affection manifested to young children by Jesus Christ
Iwhen on earth,
                 find it impossible to entertain the least
Idoubt on this head. This, then,
                                  say, is a source of true

comfort, and moreover, a source that will never be exhausted.

I have very often reflected, with some degree of wonder, why

people are, in general, so very backward to talk, or even to

think, about the situation of their friends in another world;

certainly the fact is so,--very little is said about them in that

respect. How is this silence to be accounted for ? On farther

notice and reflection, I am convinced that the silence arises, in

most cases, from want of satisfactory evidence of their state.
Perhaps we have not much fear-- but then have we any well-

grounded hope? The question is troublesome-- the hope is

often not very vivid, and is supported with difficulty; and
                 CHAP. IX. A.U 1798. /ETAT. 48.                                        157

therefore we don't like to think about it. We content our
selves with saying, ' Who can be sure in such matters ?'

when, in reality, there is a sad want of good evidence. And

thus are we apt to stifle all reflection concerning which side of

the gulf our friends are placed on; and this, under a pretence,
Ithat our forming any judgment implies presumption.
                                                              repeat

it,                                    is,
      it                                              a
                                                                it
                                                                     is '
                                                                                     is
the true account of all this that we too often feel that our

judgment must be unfavourable, and so we put away the

irksome thought. Otherwise, what          glorious and blessed

reflection to be able to say, on solid grounds, He                                       in

heaven!' There can be no comfort like this--                  an answer

to all our complaints, balsam for all our wounds.

    " Indulge this thought as much as you please, and try its
                 ;
excellence and its power to calm throbbing heart.             put in
                             a         a

                                                          I
                                                                   I
my claim for some love of this dear departed boy, and yet

find impossible to invent the least good reason for wishing

him here again neither his body nor his mind was formed for

this rough world. Why should you wish him every year to be

again afflicted with colds, with rheumatism, and other infirmi

ties He now safe, and in full and perfect enjoyment stillI, ?it is
human nature pleads very strongly for little respite. How
                                          a
                                              !

                                                    I

                                                          (I
                                                                                    ;
delightful would have been to have seen his sweet mind daily

unfold, improve, and fill with useful knowledge. So confess,)

say with deep sigh and add, how grateful an employment
          a            a
                            ;
                                                          But am power
                               I
to have contributed little to that purpose

fully checked by the consideration that he has already learnt

more since he left us-- much more, than he could have scraped

up in years of drudgery in our way of learning here. You will

find him greatly beyond us when shall please God that we join
him again. His faculties are already much extended, and will
                                       it
                                             is

                                                       a
go on extending to eternity and he in climate where every
                   is
                         a

                                    ;
thing thrives that good. But he would have been a comfort

to all about him, and useful man in the world.                believe he
                                       ;

                                                      is,

                                                         I
would. Nevertheless, my dear friend, let us not deceive our

selves by any argument of this kind there at bottom, more

of selfishness in  it  than we are apt to be aware of. Will not

God always know how to take care of his own world, by

furnishing people to do good in        Or does look like true
                                       it

                                           ?

                                                          it
158 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1738. /ETAT. 48.

love to our friends to desire to draw them here again from a

state of perfect happiness, merely for the sake of some little

satisfaction which they might afford to us? In this sort of

reasoning there is no delusion whatever ; it is founded in good

sense, and (I speak from experience) it will often calm the
tumults, and repress, in an instant, the murmurs of grief. For
Iexample :--why should
                        complain that my dear brother did

not pant with the asthma here for several years longer, and at

last die by hair's breadths, after much painful lingering ? He

would have been of some use, I know, in the world, but God

can, at will, furnish plenty of labourers for his vineyard.

I ITherefore, fear may make a pretence only of the considera
tion of usefulness, when, in reality, I wish to gratify my own

selfish feelings, and do not cordially submit to the dispensations

of Providence. Excuse me, if I here add a single word on a

subject closely connected with the above-mentioned considera

tions.

    " We ought not to content ourselves with merely and simply

soothing the mind by taking a pleasurable view of the state of

enjoyment of our friends or near relatives, in another world.

If we stop here we shall be sadly deficient. We should aim at

making our own calling and election sure, in order that we may

join them with joy, and not be wofully separated from them at
Last; separated, not for a few months or years, but for a

dreadful eternity.

    " And this consideration suggests activity of mind and
employment, and that, too, of the most rational kind. For in

this way we shall be best enabled most effectually to combat

any discontented risings of the mind, or melancholic propen

sities. It is in vain to argue against violent affections.
    " Contrive to put something else in their room, that shall fill

the mind, and you will succeed much better. The world says,

I' Divert the attention,' so say --but not by vain and empty

company, nor by dissipation. I say, ' Divert the attention,'

assuage your grief by such daily meditations and exercises, as
will promote our immortal interests, and teach us to set a value

on every object, according to its intrinsic worth. So then,

while the world recommends, as the cure of sorrow, a change
CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. /ETAT. 48.  159

of place and scene, variety of company, and public meetings

for entertainment or diversion, you and I, my dear Mrs.

Carlyle, will secretly rejoice, with joy unspeakable, in calmly
meditating upon the complete happiness of our departed friends;
and we will make it the steady and constant business of our

lives to secure to ourselves admittance into the same mansions

of bliss and glory. We may possibly be called gloomy enthu
siasts, and be described as unfit for the affairs of this world ;

but I know who will be found possessed of true wisdom at

last; and also, who will be found to have used this world, and

not abused it. Indeed, there is hardly any use of this world,

worth mentioning, except in the preparation for another.

   " After all that I have said, or can say, still, still, we have
Ilost our very dear friends, and as said above, the world will

never look like itself again; and tears must flow. To this I
Ianswer, never wish the world to look again as it once used
Ito look to me; nor have
                          any objection to drop a tear
Irepeatedly, as long as live, to the memory of any one whom
I Idearly loved ; nor have said anything in the least incon
sistent with so doing --religion does not forbid the tear to flow.
Jesus had a compassionate heart ; ' Jesus wept.' Want of
moderation -- sorrowing as without hope -- is the thing which I

deprecate.

    "The reflections contained in this letter have, by the

blessing of God, been extremely useful in moderating the
bitter anguish of my afflicted mind, and in supporting a lively

hope; and it is my earnest and sincere prayer, that they
may have some little healing influence upon your distressed

condition.

    I" need nobody to describe to me, how very much several

of dear George's relations and friends are oppressed with grief,

and more particularly, his aged and affectionate grandmother.

              " I am, dear Mrs. Carlyle,
                       " Your very faithful and affectionate friend,
                                                    "Isaac Milner."

    It is not, however, only in the tenderness and affection of

his communications by letter, that we discover proofs of Dr.
160 CHAP. IX. A.D. I7*.»». jETAT. 48.

Milner's sympathy with the feelings or the sorrows of others

Several letters written about this time, hear witness to his

active exertions in favour, not only of his own poor relations

at Hull, who, by the death of his brother Joseph, had been

bereaved of their best friend and protector; but also in favour

of other persons, of humble station, who, during his life, had

shown kindness to that departed brother.

Such letters are, of course, for the most part, unfit for

publication; yet passages of an interesting nature may be

gleaned from them.

     In a letter of a perfectly private nature, dated April, 1798,
Dr. Milner thus writes: --

    " I knew you would like to see T. Thompson's letter. I
have read it twice this morning, with great pleasure. I cer

tainly never saw anything he wrote that pleased me so well;

for besides the allusion to my dear brother, which could not

fail to move me, he discovers a strong sense of the importance

of spiritual things. I trust he is right; though thriving is

always a trial."

Again, in a letter written during the same month, he thus

answers some inquiries concerning the character of a cler

gyman :--
    " I will be perfectly explicit with you, to the best of my

judgment. His principles I believe to be, on the whole, tole

rably orthodox; and he is, in many respects, more serious than
our ordinary parsons. But still, I fear there is little self-
knowledge --little, or no humility -- and, of course, I fear he is
Inot well qualified to teach.
                               never heard of his preaching

well. He is apt to be contentious, metaphysical, snarling,
conceited. His mind is abundantly furnished, and abundantly

confused with a deal of reading of a controversial nature ; yet

I never heard of anything immoral about him, and I verily

believe the best situation for him might be in some country

place, where he had poor people to instruct, and was quite at

the head of them. He would, I think, take pains and be
useful. I should be sorry if there were near him any country

squires or priggish parsons, who, by their acquaintance, might

draw forth the worst parts of his character."
CHAP. IX. A.I). 1798. jETAT. 4S.

    The following letter will be read, by many persons, with much
interest; and, after the lapse of nearly fifty years, no apology
can be required for its publication.

"To William Wilberforce, Esq.

"My dear Sir,  " Queen's College, May 13, 1798.
" My idea of Trinity College is this. The management of

it is of great academical, and even national importance. The
foundation and the prospects are so splendid, that it invites

and brings students, in spite of the conviction of danger of

corrupt principles. The college fills; they have great choice

for their fellows; and, in general, they choose the most able.

Hence it is, that they either do now, or soon will consist of

men of talents with very few exceptions ; and if they get

corrupted in their principles during the first years of their

education in this place, and further, if a regard to heterodox

and Jacobinical principles be also had, in the election of fellows,

1 leave you to judge what sort of a society they must become.

The time when the late master* was appointed, was the critical

moment, as it appears to me. Jones, the principal tutor, was

then less a decided character, and Lambert had no influence.

The late master made Lambert bursar immediately, supported

him, and took no care to give a right direction to Jones. Under

those circumstances, you remember, I should not bave been

sorry to have been their master. I was rather intimate with

Jones, and knew all the other tutors and assistant tutors.

Some of them respected me on the score of mathematical and

philosophical knowledge, and particularly Jones; and I was so
much senior to them all, that I examined most, if not all of

them for their degrees ; and this increased their respect and

veneration. I have no manner of doubt, humanly speaking,
but then I could easily have influenced Jones, and probably so
much as to have given him quite a different turn. I do not
say that I could do so now, -- for though there has never been

the least quarrel, or bickering between us, yet a sort of distance,

or shyness, took place long ago, on political grounds; and

* Pr. Postlethwaite, appointed in 17H9.

                                         M
162 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. /ETAT. 48.

Frend's business increased that distance, and, at the same time,

fixed Jones' character.

    " I don't believe Pitt was ever aware of how much conse
quence the expulsion of Frend was. It was the ruin of the

Jacobinical party as a University thing, so that that party is

almost entirely confined to Trinity College. Government

thought nothing would please them but a man of their own

College; and it is true, they (the College) were satisfied with
Ithe appointment. But, by that step, the die was cast; and am
                                                  I sincerely
not sure that the case is not now irretrievable.

wish, that Mr. Pitt would not think it necessary to adhere to

the system of putting in a man of Trinity, unless he can find a
man absolutely suitable ; for if the state of the College is to be

retrieved at all, it must be by eminence, and energy, and dis
cretion in the master, and by long-continued exertion. * *

will never do. I told the Bishop of Lincoln so, long ago, in

the most explicit terms : his moral character was exceedingly

bad ; externally it may be mended, but he is still a loose hand :

besides, buffoonery, and indiscretion, and heat, are parts of his

                                      I

                                                 is
                                                             a

                                                              is,
character. The best thing you can say of him                       that he  is

what he       called, a tolerably good classic, and has a strong
              is
voice. Whoever heard his Fast sermon, in condition to
                  if
judge of his talents and discretion.     pledge my whole credit

for foresight, the appointment of him be not erroneous and

fallacious in the event. Besides, am certain, he would not
                                      I

be liked by the College at all, and that many aliens would he

more agreeable to them.                     be the Zouch who
                                            a it
    " Of Zouch know nothing, except
                 is I                             I
                            a                                   ;
                             is
                                                           II
was tutor of the college before Postlethwaite, and lived nearif

Wakefield. He was respectable man as tutor but thinkI it

have heard from William Hey that he proved an enemy to
I
real religion. However,               be the Zouch mean, am
          is
disposed to believe, though           know nothing of him but by

report, that he       better than any other that has been men
tioned. If any good
                      to be done in case almost desperate,
                                         a

this          the way; the new master should go to Jones and

communicate freely with him, and propose mutual support and
friendship, -- the good of the College to be the common object
          CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. JETAT. 48.                   163

Learning and ability should be the common tie, to keep these
two together. Jones is not ill-natured, and he respects talents
and knowledge, and he is easily overawed where he knows there

is weight.

    " The points of difference should be kept out of view, both

as to politics and religion ; and here the new master should

have deep and steady designs. In time he might prevail. If I
am asked my opinion about anybody, I can keep a secret, and

T shall speak out, and without the least reserve.

   " When I say, that in all I have said, I have, on this occa
sion, whatever I might have had formerly, no respect to myself,
I am sure you will believe me.
   I" have neither health nor spirits for such a conflict.  The

success is doubtful, and reproach, chagrin, and uneasiness,
Imight be the consequence.
                            think, however, that I see how

the battle ought to be conducted ; neither has the income any

charms for me. My mind is much, if not entirely chastised in

regard to all such matters.                   I thank B

    " I pray God to love and bless you both.

very kindly for her verses, which have pleased me greatly.

You cannot think Ihow pleased was on reading the lines this

morning.                    " Yours ever,

                                                            I. M."

     The disturbed state of Ireland at this period, occasioned
much alarm in the minds of all true lovers of their country.
Much correspondence upon this topic passed between Mr.
Wilberforce and Dean Milner. To the mind of Mr. Wilber-
force the danger, exaggerated perhaps by filial and fraternal
affection, appeared so imminent, as to induce him to desire the

removal of his mother and sister from Hull, --a place exposed,

as it was thought, to peculiar peril.
     Late in the month of May, 1 798, Dr. Milner thus wrote to

him from Carlisle: --

    " Really I don't see the danger at Hull in the same light.

There is now such a force there, and in the neighbourhood,
that no coup de main is to be expected, unless indeed the
troops should be hastily drawn away to other quarters.

                                                                                                                    m2
164 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. jETAT. 48.

    "We get Irish news here sooner than you do, viz., often
from Port- Patrick ; and I am sorry to say, that on the way

bill the postmaster had just time to write, ' The rebellion in

the North has unexpectedly broken out to an alarming degree.'

"This news came here to-day, and makes us all low; and

not the less so, because there is a great obscurity in the account.

   " I had last night a very severe head-ache. I took some
violent measures, -- laid down, -- and in two hours all was right.
I got up at eleven at night, -- took my milk, --sat up till one ;

I had to preach to-day, and wished not to disappoint: I
Ipreached last Sunday also.
                                 am very poorly and languid
to-day ; however I have got through pretty well on, ' Fear Him

who    can kill both body  and soul in hell.'

    "  Remember me to      your dear B  ,      and  always    know  that

you are out of my thoughts never for a long time together.
                                                    " Yours,
" To William Wilberforce, Esq."                               " I. M.

A duel had, at this time, recently taken place between

Mr. Pitt and Mr. Tierney. Dr. Milner's abhorrence of the prac

tice of duelling was uncompromising. The popular arguments

in its defence, or in mitigation of its guilt, he held to be falla

cious. " Murder," he would say, when conversing upon this
subject, " is not the less murder, because the murderer, in the

commission of his crime, necessarily exposes his own life."

Mr. Pitt's duel is alluded to in a long letter, dated, " Carlisle,

June 6," written in answer to certain questions of a chymical

nature, propounded by Mr. Wilberforce, at the desire of some

of his constituents, concerning the common practice of using

salt in the hardening of files, and some other instruments made

of steel. The letter exhibits an accurate acquaintance not only

with the subject immediately in question, but also with the

devices sometimes employed by fraudulent manufacturers, in

order to evade the duties to which they were legally subject, --

devices of which the Dean writes, that he had obtained his

knowledge "when a lad."     With reference to the duel and
other matters, he says :--
                CHAP. IX. A.l). 1798. JETAT. 48.     165

    " I hope you will do something effectual against duelling.
You will never have another so fine an opportunity. It has

hurt Pitt's character more than anything he ever did. Perhaps
not so in London.

   " I don't know a single person who does not reprobate the

appointment at  College. What sad work !
" Surely the Irish affairs go on well on the whole.
                                                     It

cannot be but that Government will now see the extent of the

mischief, and that is a great thing. Fellows will tell of one

another.
" I feel thankful that you both continue so very well. I
Ican say but little for myself.
                                 am sadly afflicted in the head,
and spend many hours uselessly -- lying down. I endeavour,

however, to make a few sermons, and to think of my ways a

good deal, during the retirement thus afforded me.

    " In thought, I assure you both, that I am hardly to be
Isaid to have left your house since the last time was with you.
I" want much to hear what you intend about this duelling.
" Remember me affectionately to B.
                " Ever yours,
                                                  I. M."

     The letter from which the foregoing extracts are taken
naturally suggests a reflection upon the vast variety of Dr.
Milner's knowledge. All who knew him will agree in the truth
of the observation, that whatever might be the subject on
which he happened to write, or to converse, or whatever the

point which he had occasion to- explain, or to illustrate, that
subject, or that point, seemed to the reader, or the auditor, to

be the one particular topic towards which he had bent the

main force of his mind. In fact his knowledge was so accurate,

his mode of explaining was so perspicuous, and his illustrations

were so apposite, that the reflection which immediately pre
sented itself to the mind of a person applying to him for infor
mation was, "Surely he knows this, better than he knows

anything else-- surely this is the subject upon which he has
spent his strength ;" and nothing but long experience sufficed
to bring the conviction, that his knowledge was, in truth, almost

universal.
166 CHAP. IX. A. P. 1798. XT AT. 48.

No man, certainly, ever acted more constantly in the spirit
"Ifof Dr. Johnson's observation,    I am in company with a
Ishoe-maker,
              talk to him about the making of shoes." And

this he did whether he desired to learn or to teach. Some

slight anecdotes lately communicated to me in a private letter,

by one of his much esteemed friends, still living, cannot,

perhaps, be better introduced than in this place.

    " I once travelled with your uncle,'' writes the Rev. Thomas

Dikes, of Hull, "from Carlisle to Leeds. We spent a few

hours at Ripon, and walked out among the people on the

market day. He accosted a razor-grinder employed in his work ;

and gave him to understand that he had not properly learned

his trade, and surprised the man by the knowledge which he

showed on the subject. We then went into a carpenter's shop,

where a well-looking youth was diligently employed ; the Dean,

for some time, looked attentively on ; and then earnestly said
to him, ' What a shameful thing it
                                    ;

                                      is,
                                                   a
                                    that young man like

you, should use such antiquated tools you can never turn any
good work out of your hands till you furnish yourself with

better implements.'

    " The Dean understood the shoeing of horse, and could tell
                                    a

the blacksmith how was, that the horse's foot was so often
              it

injured. The Dean's comprehensive mind could grasp every

subject, from the highest to the lowest.  I           have often seen

him shake hands with some of his old companions in trade.

He was never ashamed of his former condition."

Occasionally Dr. Milner carried the practice intimated in

the above anecdotes, to what some of his friends might, perhaps,

consider an extravagant length and sometimes gave rise to
                  ;

                           a it
amusing incidents. For instance, he was once crossing over
from Hull to Barton, in the passage-boat which at that time

sailed, and, probably, still sails, at certain hour each day,

according to the state of the tide. It so chanced that Mendoza,

the boxer, had been giving lessons at Hull, and was crossing

over at the same time. The Dean was observed to make his

way towards Mendoza, and to enter, with him, into a conversa

tion which lasted during a great part of the passage. There

were persons present who saw the circumstance, and who
             CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. jETAT. 48.                 167

hinted to the Dean afterwards, that they felt rather surprised at

what he had done; to their observations Dr. Milner replied,

"Oh, -- Mendoza,-- I thought he was at the top of his pro
fession, and I wanted to get something out of him."

     The following extracts from a letter to William Wilber-
force, Esq., will be read with much interest.

" My dear Friend,               " Carlisle, 20th June, 1798.

"The Irish affairs look but comical, notwithstanding all

these victories. Many Irish men and women have come here

in great fright, from Port Patrick, and they give a sad account

of the state of the country. I cannot but think, that the French,

with all their alertness, have been sadly deficient in not risking

more than they appear to have done, by way of assisting their

fraternity in Ireland. I suppose, that if they could but have

got over a few thousand of men, with officers, arms, and

artillery,  the consequences  might have been dreadful.      family.
                                 is here, with his wife and
    " The    Bishop of D

A bad character, I fear ; and certainly a violent oppositionist.
" He was at the Cathedral last Sunday, and if he be there

again next Sunday, and God grant me tolerable health, he will

hear such a discourse as, probably, he never heard in his life.

IDr. preached last Sunday, a sermon which thought

sadly deficient.

   "It was judged right to pay this bishop some civilities;
and therefore I called on him, and asked him to a Chapter

dinner. When he returned the compliment, we had a very

animated conversation. He expressed himself so strongly on

the side of opposition, and so much against the Irish govern

ment, that I thought it necessary to speak very plainly ; telling

him that if he held such language in Ireland, it could not fail to

have the effect of blowing up more rebellion, and of supporting

what there was already. He endeavoured to ride off as well as

he could; but made bad work of  and seemed in extreme
A
agitation."                                                   it,

                                                                                                                        a
     Dean Milner's health was, at this time, much disordered.
    letter written from Carlisle, on the 4th of July, to Mr.

Wilberforce, and by him docketed " most affectionate," gives
168 CHAP. IX. A.D. 1798. jKTAT. 48.

melancholy detail of his bodily sufferings ; but, at the same time

proves his mind to have been filled with calm and pious resig

nation to the Divine will.

    " You will be sorry," he writes, " to hear this account of
me, I know." * * * " May God prepare me for whatever

may be the event !

   " I wish indeed I could be with you, when I know you will

wish for my company ; but I am sure you will see, how pecu

liarly unbecoming it would be in me, to be deficient in tender

ness and attention to my only house of relations. I call my

niece and her husband, and their mother, my house of relations,

because they are now the nearest relations I have on earth.
Your dear B. wrote me a kind letter the other day -- you must
thank her. But really I know not whether you are to show
her all this letter or not ; for I am sure her tender heart may

feel a good deal too much.                present. I have, at
                                          letters to you -- you
    " Farewell, my dear friend, for the

different times, written very melancholy

must expect no other. My heart has been broken, or nearly

so, for a good while. Yet, blessed be God, I do not sorrow

without hope".Your's and B.'s most affectionately,  I. M."

    A letter written by Dean Milner early in this month of

July, contains the following expression of his affectionate con
dolence with Mr. Wilberforce, on the occasion of the death of

that gentleman's mother.

"My dear Friend,
    " I wrote the sheet that comes along with this, this morning,

and was bathed in tears most of the time T wrote it. I fastened

my door, and indulged my grief.

    " I confess the change was unexpected, and I am a good
deal surprised. I wish I were by your side, though I did

nothing but weep."

     Dean Milner concludes this affectionate letter by recalling to
the mind of his friend the " solid ground of Christian consola

tion," which remained to him under this dispensation of Pro

vidence.  ·
                                                    lfiO

                            CHAPTER X.

Dr. Milner is elected Professor of Mathematics. -- Opposition of Mr. Frend. --
       Opinion of Counsel. -- Correspondence. -- Domestic Affliction. --"Rational"
       way of Preaching. --Luther's Letter to Caspar Aquila. --Publication of a
       Second Edition of the first volume of the Church History. --Correspond
       ence. --Letter to Rev. Wm. Richardson. --Dr. Milner's Religious Expe
       rience. -- Jonathan Edwards.

                                 A.D. 1798. JETAT. 48.

In the month of September, 1798, Dr. Milner was elected
to the mathematical chair at Cambridge once rilled by Isaac
Newton. This professorship had been resigned, by that

greatest of philosophers, in the year 1669; and from ths time
of that resignation till the election of Dr. Milner, four pro
fessors only, W. Whiston, N. Saunderson, John Colson, and
Edward Waring, had intervened.

     This professorship, called the Lucasian Professorship of
Mathematics because founded and endowed by Henry Lucas,
Esq. M.P. for the University of Cambridge in 1663, Dr. Milner
held till his death.

     The opposition to Dr. Milner's election made by Mr.
Frend, on the ground that his Mastership of Queen's College
disqualified him from holding the office, and the steps taken
by Dr. Milner to settle the question of his eligibility, are
sufficiently indicated in the following letter, which also dis
plays, in a strong light, the tenderness of heart which distin

guished the writer.
     The case drawn up for the consideration of one of the

eminent lawyers mentioned in this letter*, with his very
decided opinion, that Dr. Milner was neither directly nor
indirectly disqualified from holding the Lucasian Professorship,
is still in existence, as is also the following declaration of Dr.

Milner himself:--"During my being a candidate for the Luca-

                                        * Sir William Scott.
i;o CHAP. X. A.D. 1798. jETAT. 48.

sian Professorship, I considered the duties of the situation
very particularly; and moreover, I obtained the very decided

opinion of Sir William Scott on certain points, and this for the
greater satisfaction both of the electors and myself.

    " Dr. Waring professed himself always ready to lecture, or

to give advice to any mathematical students who should apply
to him; and with respect to the written lectures which the pro
fessor is to deposit among the university archives, he conceived
that he should best discharge that duty by printing his lucubra
tions.

   " I have the very same intention."

     This declaration is in entire accordance with the sentiments

expressed in the following letter: --

              "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

" My dearest Friend,      "Hull, September 27, 1798.
       " Our last letters must have crossed.
       " I told you I was elected unanimously, at last, and without

a competitor, unless you would call Frend a competitor, who

       I
                            I

                                                   a

                                                                 it,
                                                                             it
wrote an indecorous letter, and printed and sent to each

Head, proposing himself candidate and positively affirming

that was disqualified, and this without arguing the point at all.

    " The first request made to Sir William Scott, and Sir

William Wynne also, was, that they would seriously and con

scientiously tell me, not merely as lawyers, but as friends,

whether they thought there was the least disqualifying circum
stance in the case. Sir William, after considering all the

documents, declared positively on my side, and also gave me
                                              it

                                                                     Ia
written opinion to the same effect. Had been otherwise,

told them both that should instantly have declined.

    "This new office, as to study for further attainments in
              is

                   a

                       I
mathematics, will give no trouble at all, but mean to be
                                                 I

                                                       I. C
                                                                 *

                                                                        is
efficient, as efficient as possible, in discharging the duties of it.

       "This  severe year upon me! Poor Mrs.

apparently upon her death-bed. Let me have a line without
                          " Yours always,
fail.                                                                            M."

              * The mother-in-law of his niece.
CHAP. X. A.D. 1798. JETAT. 411.                              171

     The next letter gives an account of the happy death of the
excellent lady whose illness is above alluded to.

"To William Wilberforce, Esq.

                           " York, Tuesday, 12 o'clock at noon-
" My dear Friend,                       " October, 1798.
    " Harder work I never                                 three
                           experienced than for the last

weeks, because I have been on the spot an immediate eye

witness to pain and affliction of the severest sort. Mrs. C
Ithe elder, died this morning at 6 o'clock.
                                             set off for York,

and am now going to bed (12 o'clock at noon), having been up
the whole of the last ten nights watching the poor sufferer

the progress of this       painful and mysterious disorder.
greater example of         true faith and resignation never
Iduring                                                      saw

    "A

than in this old lady. Her comforts were not very high, but

they were uniform and steady ; and as they depended not at all

on feelings, but on the promises, she was proof against all sorts

of temptation to the last, expressing a firm expectation of a

glorious resurrection through the Redeemer. So humble a

Icreature never heard of, and I am confident that she has not

been once heard to murmur, though often to cry out from

violent pain.

    " Oh ! my dear Sir, I have been present at an instructive

lesson.

    " I mean to proceed immediately to Cambridge.

"You will easily understand from the above, how it has
Ihappened that I have not answered your letters.
                                                          thank

Idear B. for her kind letter, and receive with great satisfaction

your account of little William's thriving.

                                      " Yours, with great affection,

                                                        "I. M."

     During the month of November, Dean Milner thus writes
to the same friend: --

    " Oh ! my dear Sir, this year has made sad havoc with my

outward man. Nevertheless I bless God, on the whole, at
times. But I see I have everything to learn, or nearly so; yet,
172 CHAP. X. A.D. 1798. /ETAT. 48.

however, very often I can say, ' I fear not, all will yet be well.'

As to poor dear W.'s teeth, they must come. Poor dear

jewels! what a vast deal they suffer, and cannot explain them

selves, and hardly know what is the matter with them ! I shall

have great pleasure in seeing him, and noticing how famously

he will have come on.

    " Remember me affectionately to dear B. I cannot say, with
truth, that when you omit to write, I do not sometimes desire
the sight of your sometimes scrawling hand-writing, but I can

say, that her letters are most excellent substitutes. Whenever

she writes, she has the art of making me both hear and see

herself, more than any body I ever knew. Tell her that I

shall dispute with her, whether young W. be so very handsome

as she says he is.

"     "Yours   very   truly and affectionately,  I. M.
   P.S. You   have   my prayers."

      Dr. Milner's letters and his private memoranda show that
his thoughts were at this time much occupied by religious
subjects. Mr. Wilberforce's Diary of this year has the following

passage: "July 29th. Much talk with Milner about his

preaching, and the growing faults of the young clergy. He
conceives them getting into a rational way of preaching."

     The nature of the censure here implied by the word

" rational," is by no means obscure. It may not, however, be

disagreeable to the reader to peruse, in elucidation of this
expression, the following passage from Melancthon's disserta
tion De Spiritu el Litera*; a passage often alluded to by Dean
Milner, as conveying admirable ideas respecting the difference

between Christianity as revealed in the Scriptures, and that
"rational religion" too often substituted in its place.

    " The letter," says Melancthon, " means whatever doctrine,

ideas, habits, discipline, and good desires, as they are called,
any man, by the common light of nature, may attain, without

the influence of the Holy Spirit: that is, without the least

' A considerable portion of this Dissertation is translated by Joseph Milner,

          in an Essay originally published in The Theological Miscellany.
              CHAP. X. A.D. 1799. /ETAT. 49.

genuine fear of God, without any confidence in his revealed

mercy, which alone can powerfully comfort the mind, and

without any   knowledge or worship     of Christ.   to  us  the  Holy
               other hand, the Spirit   points out
    " On the

Ghost, really beginning in this life, and in the next completing,

in the hearts of God's people, a new light, wisdom, and right

eousness, and a perpetual life of holiness, acceptable to God,

and inflamed by the constant motions of the Holy Spirit,

with fear, faith, prayer, and love ; and in eternal life enjoying

the vision of God, and celebrating his perfections."

This passage, and indeed the whole of the dissertation from

which it is taken, forms a valuable comment upon the word

" rational," as used by Dr. Milner.

During the year 1799, Dr. Milner was engaged, as much as

his other occupations would permit, in selecting for publica

tion some of his brother's sermons, and in preparing for the

press a second edition of the first volume of the Church History.

He visited London during the summer of this year. The

following entry appears in Mr. Wilberforce's Diary*, dated
" August 25th. Milner preached his Buxton Sermon on
Christianity's corruptions. All serious persons much struck
with it." " Disputed with Milner about final perseverance."

Dr. Milner's readiness to preach whenever occasion offered

has been already mentioned ; and since, as he himself said of

his brother, " He never took his pen in hand without a distinct

subject," and always brought the full force of his mind to bear

upon the matter in hand, it will excite no surprise that his
sermons were invariably striking and effective. To disputation

on religious subjects, he was indeed usually less inclined ; yet

he was ever ready to admit that " in his heart he loved a good

argument ;" and few persons, perhaps, were better qualified to

discuss a difficult question in theology. Still, however, unless

under peculiar circumstances, he was little disposed to enter,

in conversation,- upon abstruse reasonings and disquisitions.

" What is that to thee ? Follow thou me," was a quotation

often addressed by him, by way of caution, to persons, especially

              * See Life of Wilberforee.
174 CHAP. X. A.D. 1799. JETAT. 49.

young persons, who endeavoured to engage him in the discus
sion of personal election, free-will, and other such topics,

which he was well known to have deeply studied. Such
persons were likewise often exhorted by him to meditate upon

Martin Luther's remarkable Letter to Caspar Aquila, on the

subject of God's incomprehensible majesty*.

    In the autumn of this year, Dean Milner, who had corre
sponded as usual with Mr. Wilberforce, "giving him frequent

and forcible lectures on the necessity of taking care of himself,

and living a more quiet lifef," wrote to him from Carlisle, on

hearing of the -birth of his eldest daughter.

" My dear Friend,
    " I do indeed rejoice with you very sincerely ; and am very

thankful that Almighty God smiles so repeatedly upon every

thing connected with you. I shall not fail to pray for you all.
    " Excellent Stillingfleet is here, and has been here and in

the neighbourhood for many days. He was the most intimate

friend my poor brother had, and was always exceedingly kind

to him in having him at his house, &c. He could not bear to

come to Hull for much above a year after his decease.

    " Though I have endeavoured to discharge my duty here as
well as ever I could, and though I have been enabled, through

a gracious providence, to get through four preachings, yet

sadness and melancholy of heart stick close by me, and

increase upon me. Who would believe this ? I tell nobody,
Ibut I am very much sunk indeed ; and wish I could have the
relief of weeping, as I often used to have.

    " I pray that I may thrive in the best things ; and I rejoice

in  God's abundant    kindness to you   and yours.
                       an affectionate  remembrance
    " Farewell, with  " Yours affectionately,        to B.

                                                                    I. M."

     Much as his spirits were affected by the employment,
Dean Milner's principal occupation at this period was, as has

* A translation  of this letter may be seen among    the published  JEssays ot
                                     Joseph Milner.

                           t Life of Wilberforce.
              CHAP. X. A.D. 1799. .ETAT. 49.                                  175

been already intimated, the preparation for publication of
several of the manuscripts of his departed brother; an occu
pation which, by vividly recalling the memory of that beloved
relative, could not but cause acute pain to his affectionate and

sensitive heart.

     On the 6th of November, 1 799, he thus wrote to his own
and his deceased brother's valued friend :--

              "The Rev. William Richardson.

" Dear Sir,

   "With great truth I can say, that I always receive your
letters with much pleasure, though I will confess that your last

agitates my poor frame a good deal." * * * " Headaches,

almost perpetual, incapacitate me for many hours every day;                   is it,

Ithe remainder I endeavour to employ as well as possibly can ;
and am directed by what I think duty.

    " A very material affair at present takes up a great deal of

my time; and yet I am very desirous of fighting through

viz., the correcting and reprinting of the first volume of the

Ecclesiastical History. It has been much called for, and

now above half done. But this business, and my other neces

sary, absolutely necessary, avocations, leave me very little time

indeed.                                                                    *

"The correction of the first volume very tedious on the
I
   I

                  ;

                I

                           it :

                                   I
                                              if
                                                 I

                                                                       is
following account formerly, when the author was at hand, he

would clear up twenty of my remarks in one minute but now
                                                                           ;

sometimes spend many hours in clearing up an ambiguous or

equivocal sentence, for want of the book, or the edition which

he used and dare not hazard conjectures, nor even all the

truth, always, as may appear to stand from such authorities

as have before me, lest should make the historian, (who

probably would be very consistent,            could but refer to the

authority which he depended upon, and which, perhaps, he

has omitted to mention) appear inconsistent, when different

passages are   compared with each other.      statement                    of facts, and
              less and less liberty with his
    " take
I
           I
                                       I

                                                                                                  ;

                                                      I

                                                                                                                                ;
also with his representation of probable causes for assure

you, the more probe, the more exact find him, in reality
176 CHAP. X. A.l). 1799. /ETAT. 4'J.

but he very frequently affirms things which suppose his readers

to  know  more than many of       them do know.
                                  your letter agitates
    " In  this situation, I say,                        me,  by present

Iing fresh work*.  do not mean to press you, because you

best know your own feelings about it ; and if you persist in

saying, or thinking, that 'it is absolutely necessary for the
satisfaction of your own mind,' that I should see the proof
sheets, of course I must give way. Otherwise, I really do not
Isee the necessity of it at all.  am sure I shall be perfectly

satisfied with what you do, and so, I doubt not, will those who

Iread the book, for, dare say, very few great or learned men

will trouble themselves with sermons of such a cast, or written

by such a character as the author was.

    " After having said so much, it is now my duty to acquiesce,
which I shall do most cordially, in whatever way you shall

think proper to decide.

    " You are absolutely over-nice ; you need not send me any

Ispecimen of the paper or type, as really see no appearance of
your having lost your faculties. Seriously, I am, and I hope I

always shall be, very grateful to you.  " Yours,

                                                             I. M."

      The following letter, which cannot be read without very

deep interest, has been already published in the correspondence
of William Wilberforce, Esq. Its appearance in this volume

may, perhaps, require a few words of explanation.
     A finer letter, in point of strong sense, vivid imagery, and

deep feeling, has, perhaps, been seldom penned; and the religious
experience which it discloses would be well understood by the
excellent friend to whom it was addressed, and will not be

misunderstood by any who, while they are practically acquainted
with the great doctrines of Christianity, are able duly to appre
ciate the struggle which a belief of those humbling doctrines
may sometimes occasion in a mind of such immense power as
was that of Dr. Milner.

* Mr. Kichardson had pressed Dr. Milner to give the last corrections to the
                              proof sheets of his brother's Sermons.
                        CHAP. X. A.D. 1?99. jtiTAT. 49.

     A much more numerous class of persons, however, will not,
it is to be feared, comprehend aright the causes of the severe
mental sufferings which the Dean, in the exercise of the most

undoubting confidence, here lays open to his friend ; and some
may perhaps be disposed to think, that that confidence, upon
a subject so purely private in its nature, ought never to have

been infringed.

    It is proper to say, that this very remarkable letter is

reprinted in this work chiefly from a feeling that the omission
of while other letters of nature in some degree similar are
now for the first time, published, might, some quarters, give
rise to suspicion, quite at variance with the truth, that the
biographer of Dean Milner regards its contents as in some way
derogatory to the religious character of the writer.
         it,

                a
                                                             a

                                                                         in

             "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

" My dear Friend,                    " Queen's College, Saturday,
    " In the compass of a letter,
                                             December 21*/, 1799.
                                   cannot explain to you in how
             if a

                  I

                                      I

                                             I
                                                      I
great darkness and temptation my mind has been of late, and

indeed continues yet, to great degree.                                       can only say at

present, that all my bodily complaints are nothing to it.

could rejoice under them they were double, treble, manifold,

if       it  did not please God to hide his countenance.                        cannot

explain myself so as to be understood. You would not, could

not, believe my narrative of what passes and has passed, night

and day, and even in my dreams.                              have yet been kept,
             I

                   it

                        I
                                   II

                                                                 a

                                              I

                                                                   it

                                                               if
blessed be God, from despair, but really know not where

I it it  will end.                                                              ever

          " A ray of hope sometimes darts into my mind, that

         please God that fairly get out of my present harassed state,

         may be happier than ever have yet been.                             call 'a ray of

hope,' but, in reality, rather resembles flash of lightning in

a dreadfully dark and tempestuous night, than the cheering rays
of the sun. Flashes of lightning, at the same time that they
dismay and terrify one, partly on their own account, and partly
on account of the deep and dangerous ditches which they discover

for moment these same flashes, say, at the same moment
         a
                                   ;

                                                          I

                                                                             N
178 CHAP. X. A.D. 1799, jETAT. 49.

show that there is a good turnpike-road between the ditches,                                         1

and enable the traveller also to avoid the danger, and to proceed

on his journey for a time, though under great apprehensions,

till another flash comes.

    " This image is taken from what really happened to me in

Lincolnshire, during that dreadful summer some few years ago,

in the night time.

    " The stage-coachman declared, that it was as dark as pitch,

and very often absolutely stopped till a dreadful flash of light

ning showed him where he was. There was a West Indian in

the coach at the same time, who frightened every body by his

horrid imprecations against the coachman.

    " There are certain parts of Holy Writ which I endeavour

to grasp with all my might, and this constantly, and so it has

hitherto pleased God to support me; but I am sorry to say

that my grasp is often a grasp of fear and agitation and neces  is it,

sity, rather than of willingness and holy confidence. I see that
there is nothing else to be done, but I do not honour God by

submitting cordially to His way of salvation. This is the great

point that I have long been aiming at, and I make nothing of

and yet know, and am sure, that without this, all the rest
I
sounding brass.                    now speak,     strong, and
      a                          I
    " My grasp, however, of which             I
       aI
                                                          is

                                                       I

                                                                                                  :

                                                                is I
have had little relief within the last few days.        do not

know whether            make myself understood.   mean this to

submit to the condemning power of the holy law of God, a
hard matter -- very hard matter indeed, to do this thoroughly.

My understanding has shown me, for many years, that this        is

the touchstone of sound conversion, and have been busy
                        a            it

                                        is ; I
enough in noting the defect of in others but, as to myself,
                           ; it
have got on at all in this respect,              very lately indeed.
if
  I

                    is
The heart sadly deceitful here for, with Christ's salvation

before one's eyes, one may easily fancy that God just and
                                                  ; is
equitable in condemning sinners, when, you put the case only
                                   if

                                               a
for moment to your own heart seriously, as thing likely to
happen, the heart will rise against such a dispensation perhaps,
indeed, with smothered sort of opposition and dislike, but
a
     is

                   a
which very steady and determined.
                       CHAP. X. A.D. 1799. JETAT. 49.                 179

" Nothing less than the Holy Ghost himself can cure this,

by showing us the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ . A

sinking man lays hold of a rope thrown out to him, and grasps
Iit firmly.  bless God I never leave hold of the rope, and I
trust I shall be found grasping it fast to the last. Neither have
I the slightest fear of the rope breaking ; but if I do not feel

and acknowledge thoroughly, that the whole is a downright act

of mercy, in every possible sense that you can twist the matter,

I may still be suffered to sink for ever. I see, clearly enough,

the way in which that dreadful event happens to many of those

that are lost. Experience concurs to show the wisdom of the
Scriptures, and the consistency of the Gospel scheme. * *

    " Your last letter, though short, is truly affectionate, and lays

hold of me, in several tender places, very closely. The quota

tion from Milton, which you kindly wish me to advert to, is a

favourite passage, and has been so with me for many years.

The sentiment is sound and pious, I think; but, like every
thing else, is liable to abuse by being carried too far. It is true

God will never blame us for want of exertion where power is

denied ; but I suppose the will is as much shown in feeble

efforts as in strong ones, provided those feeble efforts be but

proportionate to the faculties ; it was so in the widow's mite,

and doubtless it is the same in other things.
I I" purposely said what
                          had to say on other subjects

unmixed with the consideration of your own health. Won
I Iderful beings we are !
                         hope need not repeat to you how
much I am always concerned when anything unpleasant hap

pens to you ; a great deal more, I believe, than you yourself

are, or than any body can conceive who does not know what it

is to be hampered with such a nervous, irritable, and
                                                       I              you

                                                                 (if
will allow me) affectionate sort of composition, as am ham

pered with.            have felt in this way towards you, now, for many
       is
years, and a             not likely that my anxieties on your account,

and apprehensions of any mischief, should be less, because Godit I

                     is
has taken to himself what was very near and dear to me, and

left me a sort of insulated being, and very, very         disconso

late,       weak word,   nearly heart-broken,          far nearer the
                                         is
                                                 is

                                                               2

                                                             I
truth. Indeed, my dear friend, my heart        so full, that can

                                                       x
180 CHAP. X. A.D. 1799. ^TAT. 49.

hardly get to the subject I am driving at, and I will, God

willing, finish to-morrow.                            "I. M11.NEr."

                        " Yours most affectionately,

     The passage from Milton alluded to in the                   foregoing

remarkable letter, is the fine and affecting sonnet              " On his

Blindness a passage often quoted by Dr. Milner, with much

admiration.

             I" When consider how my light is spent

             Ere half my days, in this dark world and wide,

             And that one talent which is death to hide,

             Lodged with me useless; though my soul more bent

             To serve therewith my Maker, and present
             My true account lest He, returning, chide;
             'Doth God exact day-labour, light denied ?'

             I fondly ask : but patience, to prevent

             That murmur, soon replies, ' God doth not need

             Either man's work, or his own gifts; who best
             Bear his mild yoke, they serve Him best; his state
             Is kingly; thousands at his bidding speed,
             And post o'er land and ocean without rest ;
             They also serve who only stand and wait.'"

     About this period of his life, Dean Milner was anxiously
engaged in the study of the writings of the Rev. Jonathan
Edwards. Among his private memoranda of this date, various
notices appear of his lending " Edwards' Sermons" or " Ed
wards on Religious Affections" to " Dr. Jowett," to " William
Farish," and to others of his friends. A dissertation, found

among his papers, and, as it appears, written during this year,

on the " Posthumous Remarks of the late Jonathan Edwards,
concerning ' Faith,' and ' Justification by Faith,' " is given in
the next chapter, precisely as it came from his pen. To say

that in this performance Dr. Milner thinks accurately, and dives
deeply into the meaning of the great divine whose work he is
considering, would be superfluous. The value of his remarks

will be apparent to all who have exercised their understandings

upon this fundamental Christian doctrine.
                          181

                           CHAPTER XI.                       Jon Faith, and ustifi-

Dissertation on Jonathan Edwards' Ponthumous Remarks         Milner on the same
       calion by Faith. --Quotation from a Sermon by Dean
       Subject.

              A.D. 1799. .«TAT. 49.

              " Justification.

   "§ 1. I consider the late Jonathan Edwards' posthumous

remarks on Faith and Justification by Faith, as very valuable

relics of that great divine. They are contained in Chapter VII.

pp. 393 --480*; and, though evidently, extremely indigested,

they are manifestly proofs of profound thought, and great

acquaintance with the Scriptures, as well as of great candour of

mind, and exemption from prejudice.

   I" have studied them at different times of my life, with all
Ithe attention in my power ; and scruple not to recommend a

careful and diligent perusal of them to every one who wishes to

acquire just ideas on these difficult and important subjects.

   " But I wish it to be remembered, that I recommend them

rather as containing a number of excellent materials and obser

vations, than as furnishing either regular ratiocination, or accu

rate and perspicuous conclusions.

    "No man could have written this Chapter VII., whose

mind had not been long, and seriously, and habitually, employed

on this branch of divinity. The quotations and the reflections

              it,

                                            a
contained in  do not always hang together in the way of              a

well-connected composition; on the contrary, they appear to

have been put down as in                       common-place book, as they

occurred, from time to time, to this great master both of theo

retical and practical divinity; and we have to lament, that they
appear never to have been reviewed by their author.

    * These and other references to the        sufficient accuracy, the passages alluded

work under consideration are left as
Dean Milner wrote them and will

probably, in general, indicate, with
              ;
                                     .J j

                                               it
                                                         is
                                               to; but       impossible now to ascer-

                                               tain the particular edition of Edwards'
                                               Works which he used.
182 CHA1\ XI. A.D. 17U9. /ETAT. iO.

    " I am much disposed to make one objection to this work --          I
as running through, if I mistake not, almost every part of in
                                                                            it,
its present state namely -- that the simple and natural meaning
of the word faith, seems to be too much forgotten in Mr.                    I

Edwards' definitions and observations; the same thing have

often remarked in the writings of other able divines; and

have conceived, that much of the obscurity and apparent

contradiction which we find in them, to be ascribed to this
is                                   if
        §cause.
                                               is
            I" 2.suppose, that most, not all Mr.   E                    observa
                              ;
                                                              's
                     I
                                                                       a
tions on these subjects are true in the abstract, and in practi

cal sense; but still think, that his definition of justifying faith

    not truly Scriptural; and my views on this subject areif
right, he seems to describe those qualifications of true believer,
                                                   a
which are allowed to be essential to that character, as necessa   a

rily entering into those very acts of faith which justify man,ita
and as constituting their primary essence. Let any one run   a
over this seventh chapter, with this idea in his mind.it

     " In other words, may be absolutely necessary for man toa
be of certain character, before he can perform single act of
true faith. The existence of this character may be indispensable,
yet, will not follow, that every act of such character of
the nature of saving, or justifying faith nor, yet again, will
those acts of this character which really imply the existence of

   faith that justifies, derive their essence (strictly speaking,)
from those qualifications which constitute that character.

     " The essence of an act to be performed, and the essence of
                                                   ;

                                                             a
                                                                                 is

a

the qualification absolutely necessary to the subject who to
perform the act, are two things perfectly distinct.

     " 3. To make this plainer.
     " We are called upon, in Scripture, to trust in the promises,

and then we shall be saved and the controversy has been con

cerning the meaning of the term, trust. It said, that some

have reasoned as the promise was made to an individual A. B.
so that, A. B. can but believe, that Christ will save him, he

is, from that moment, justified, and in state of salvation.
     "Others, who have seen the danger of this crude and

unscriplural representation of the nature of faith, have denied
   §

      if
                   if

                                                           ;
                                                                             a

                                                                          is
                                                                                                            is

                                                                                                                                                       ;
CHAP. XI. A.D. 179U. /ETAT. 49.          183

what is called the doctrine of appropriation of the merits of
Christ to a man's self. According to them, there is nothing of

personal appropriation of the promises, in the essence of justi

fying faith.

    "The danger of an improper personal appropriation is so
obvious, and so great, that I do not wonder, if some of our

most thinking and judicious divines shall be found to have

carried their precaution in this matter, too far. It has appeared

to them, that persons of a warm imagination might easily work

themselves up into a belief of their interest in Christ, on very
slight grounds, and sometimes even unwarily be drawn into
doctrinal systems of an antinomian tendency.

     "Now, there is, no doubt, very great danger here; but,

nevertheless, I am convinced, that the danger is by no means
all on this side. I will not undertake to decide on which side
the greater danger lies : but I have little doubt, that the side

opposite to antinomianism is the more likely to be taken of the
two. There is in our very natures, even depraved as they are by
the fall, so much left of the moral principle in our consciences,

as to protect most men from the gross abuses of antinomianism ;

and I may safely observe, on the other hand, that those theore

tical divines whose minds have been drawn to use great caution

in drawing confident conclusions favourable to personal salva
tion, are the most likely to stumble on pharisaical grounds of

objection ; and the more so, because, in so doing, they seem to
themselves to be standing up for holiness of life, without which,

certainly, no man shall see the Lord*.

    " It may be of no great consequence to aim at so balancing

matters, that one might be able to pronounce which of the two
errors produces the more mischief in practice ; but the investi
gation and statement of the truth, (as it is always important,)
should be our chief object.

     " § 4. Mr. Edwards, (page 454) observes, that ' Christ

  * " Add to this, that if the essence   faith require an appropriation, they
                                         will then strive to increase the qualifi-
of faith be supposed to consist in the
previous qualifications of the true be-  cations, that they may be eutitled to
liever, men will be apt to be content    appropriate."-- Original Note.

with low qualifications, whereas if
184 CHAP. XI. A.D. 1789. /ETAT. 49.

does not promise to be the author of our redemption, but upon
condition ; and we have not performed that condition until we
have believed.' Therefore, we have no grounds until we have
once believed, to acquiesce in the statement that Christ will

save us. Therefore, the first act of faith is no more than this,
' the acquiescence of the mind in what he does declare abso

lutely;' (so in page 418,) 'it has been said by many, that the

soul's immediately applying Christ to itself as its Saviour, was
essential to faith. Doubtless, an immediate application is

necessary ; but that which is essential, is not the soul's imme

diately applying Christ to itself, so properly, as its applying
itself to Christ.'

    " These passages afford a sample of what I conceive to be

that erroneous view of justifying faith, which pervades this

chapter.

     " And now to explain my meaning as briefly as possible ; 1
not only allow, but maintain, that those things which Edwards

has described as essential to justifying faith, are really essential

it,

           a
                                            ;

                                                is,

                                                                                                                        ;
to in certain sense that  justifying faith cannot exist,

unless these things be present in the subject who believes but
still, they do not, strictly speaking, constitute the essence of

that act of the believer which justifies him. They are rather to
be denominated qualifications of the believer, previous to his

exercising that faith towards the Saviour which justifies him.

It is, probably, true in ordinary practice, that the qualifications

of the subject, and his subsequent acts of justifying faith,
proceed step by step, and may appear to intermix with each
other so as to render not easy to mark the distinction. That
is, the qualifications of which speak are, in their commence
it

          I

                                                                 ;
ment, often very feeble and imperfect, and so are the exercises
of faith which accompany, or rather follow them and after

wards, both one and the other increase till the believer becomes

more settled and established. However, there will be no

necessity, in this inquiry, to dwell on such cases as these,
notwithstanding their frequency. We are now inquiring into
the nature of justifying faith, itself, and also into the nature of

those qualifications of the subject who exercises those acts of

faith, which warrant his justification on the true Scriptural plan                                                         :
                    CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. JETAT. 49.                185

and, therefore, the consideration of cases where the subject has

only acquired dark and obscure views of the Gospel, in other

words, when he sees only as it were through a glass darkly, can

be of no use in this inquiry. We must endeavour to obtain

clear and decided notions of the doctrine of faith, by studying

the characters of those who are allowed to possess justifying

faith in a lively and vigorous degree.
     "            Once more --
     "  § 5.  us                    Mr. E           's method of represent
        Let       carefully review

ing  this matter    ; (page 454.)                                  this, -- the
                    act of faith,' says
     " ' The first                       he,  ' is  no more  than

acquiescence of the mind in what Christ declares absolutely.

It is the soul's resting in him, and adhering to him so far as his
word reveals him to all, as a Saviour for sinners -- as a sufficient
Saviour-- as a Saviour suited to their case --as a willing Saviour
-- as the author of an excellent salvation -- so as to be encouraged

heartily to seek salvation of him-- to come to him, to love,

desire, and thirst after him as a Saviour, and fly for refuge to

him.'

    " Now it appears to me, that in all this, Mr. E. is only, as it

were, on the very edge of justifying faith, and has not actually

laid hold of it-- so as to have given a correct description of it.

    " It is true, that all this must be in the mind of a true

believer --but, still, he has another step to take, before he can

be said to act faith personally, in his own case. In short, all

this is a preparative for the exercise of faith ; nay, it is an

essential preparative, and, in that sense, is essential to justifying

faith ; but yet not essential, otherwise than as a preparative, to

that act of the believer which (in strictness of speech) justifies

him. It seems more correct to say, that this preparative is

essential to the state of that man's mind who is to exercise

justifying faith. For without this preparative, no man can

have the faith which justifies.                                    Thus, a

    "A metaphor may, perhaps, illustrate this matter.

man's legs are essential to his being able to walk ; in other

words, there must be legs for a man to perform the act of

walking ; nevertheless, the mere existence of his legs makes no

part of the essence of walking.
186 CIIAP. XI. A.D. 179(). jETAT. 49.

" To put this more generally, I would say, certain qualifica

tions may be essentially necessary to the exercise of a true act
of faith, and yet they may make no part of the essence of the

act itself.

     " You must be duly qualified in order to exercise faith ; but
this qualification may exist without the least real faith: but here
is the distinction : not a particle of real faith can exist without

the preparative, or, what is the same thing, without the quali

fications.                                                            kept in view, I may now
                                                                      I conceive to be a true
     " § 6. These things being always
proceed to state more distinctly what

definition of the nature of justifying faith. It is that act of the

soul, so qualified or prepared as above described, by which a

man is led to apply the Gospel promises to his own individual
case ; that is, he believes that Christ will do for him all that he

has promised to do for those that fly to Him, as a Saviour, for
refuge. He docs not pretend that he finds in the Scriptures
any promise to himself personally, but, on the contrary, he
finds that all the promises are made to characters ; he believes

himself to be such a character as that is described to be, to

which the promises are made ; and in that conviction, together

with a full persuasion of the faithfulness of Christ, he appro

priates the promise to himself.

    " It is this act of appropriation in which essentially consists

the nature of justifying faith.
     " To appropriate the promises without the previous qualifi

cation or preparative, would be enthusiasm and delusion; not

so when the sinner has carefully examined himself on that head

which respects his qualification.                                     The

    " This idea agrees with the words of Scripture.

promise of Christ is a promise of rest to all that are ' weary

and heavy-laden.' The being weary and heavy-laden is abso

lutely necessary to qualify the sinner to come to his Saviour: it

Iis by no means, allow, the whole of the qualification ; but it

is an essential ingredient in
§                              and serves well to explain the

      7-

      If

                                          it,

                                                                   a
nature of that preparative which must precede any act of

justifying faith.                                                     man may go still farther
     " appears to me, that
GHAP. XI. A.D. 17<JU. jETAT. i'J.                           187

than the being weary and heavy-laden, and yet still fall short

of exercising true justifying faith. Mr. Edwards says, (p. 418,)

that the soul's 'applying itself to Christ is more properly

justifying faith, than his applying Christ to himself.'

    I" But think he does not speak correctly in this instance.

A sinner may certainly apply himself to Christ for all Gospel

blessings and may fail, for want of the aforesaid preparative, or

qualification ; but so far, as I conceive, is this qualification or

preparative from being of the nature of justifying faith, that

even a sinner so prepared, and even truly prepared, may fail of

obtaining, according to the Scriptural account, a true state of

justification for want of faith in his application, i. e., for want

of this very appropriation which so many persons are apt to

consider as unscriptural and delusive.
     " Mr. Edwards is endeavouring to expose and counteract a

great delusion no doubt ; but in doing this, I think he describes

what is essential to the character of the sinner who applies

successfully to his Saviour, while he professes to be describing

what is essential to justifying faith; whereas, if my statement be

§
                                     is
                                        a in

                                                 a
                                                                   is,

                                                                                                  's
true, that which is strictly essential to faith the application of

Christ to the believing soul           personal act of appropriation.
" 8. It must, however, be owned, that in Mr. E

distinction between the soul's applying to Christ and its apply

ing Christ to itself, there            considerable degree of obscurity,

indeed so much obscurity, that, without committing or being

guilty of any violence of interpretation, this author's sentiment

may be made to tally very well with the definition of faith

which am now proposing.

    " For example, Mr. Edwards (p. 408) allows, that in the

first act of faith the soul humbly and heartily applies and seeks
I

                                    a
to Christ, and sees such congruity between the declared mercy

of God and the disposition he then feels towards Him, that he

cannot but hope that that declared mercy will be exercised

towards him.                                             would be incongruous for

   " Yea,' continues he, he sees
is
     '

        §
                  a

                            if
                                     '
                                                     it
God to give him such inclinations and motions of heart towards

Christ as Saviour, he were not to be saved by Him.'

    " 5). Now let any one pause here, and consider what there

in this account that falls short of appropriation (certainly
                                                         ;
188 CHAT. XI. A.P. 1799. jETAT. 49.

very little, if any thing at all :) and then let him further consider,
whether it be not true that, in proportion to the excellence or

perfection of the qualification, there will not necessarily, as it

were, be connected with it the appropriation of which I speak.

And if this be admitted, which I think can hardly be denied,

then the chief difference between Mr. E                                 's account of this

matter and mine, is, that he makes the essence of justifying

faith to consist principally in the qualification, and I describe it

as consisting in the act of appropriation ; yet always remem

bering, and always maintaining, that this act of appropriation
must be the act of a sinner qualified as above.

    " Now I greatly mistake if this view of justifying faith do

not agree both with Scripture and the use of common language,

in regard to such words as faith, trust, belief, &c, better than

Mr. E     's view of it.
" Mr. E
                                   's view of
                                   it,
                                                       it,

                                                                    it
                                               unless, indeed, we are allowed to

comment upon                       and to interpret with the aforesaid degree

of latitude, confines the belief of the sinner to mere general

ideas of Christ's redemption, as also to mere general ideas of

the character of truly contrite sinner. Now, for anything
a                                                                                     I
                        a
see, very wicked and unconverted man may see the evidences

of the Word of God, and also the general meaning of the

gospel way of salvation; and, lastly, that there                          no other way
                                               it
                                                    is

                                                       is,
                                                                   a

                                                                      is
of salvation and yet he may not have one grain of confidence
'

                                ;

                        '
that he himself shall be saved, that                                    not have one grain of

true justifying faith but when                                          added, that the sinner,
                                   :

                                      '
besides seeing the truth of all this, sees                              propriety in  ;' it,

acquiesces in it,' and seeks to Christ heartily and humbly

and conscious of his own disposition towards Christ, cannot

but hope that the mercy of God will be exercised towards him                          it ;'
and, lastly, sees 'that would be incongruous for God to give
                                   it

him these inclinations in case he were not to be saved then

is, as have already said, that seem to perceive that Mr. Ed-
II                                             's I
                                                                ;
wurds,in  fact, includes an appropriation of the mercies of

Christ by the sinner to his own soul in other words,                      it      then
                                                                              is

that perceive in Mr.               E           description the traces of faith, --

justifying faith,-- which carries him much beyond general views,

and even much beyond any e;eneral approbation of the Gospel.
          CHAP. XI. A.D. 1798. JET AT. -49.               189

"Consequences of this View ok Justifying Faith.

    § 10. " It is now time to notice what may at first sight,

perhaps, appear to be a formidable objection to this view of

justifying faith.

    " The language of Scripture is, He that believeth shall be

saved, and ' he that believeth not shall be damned.'

    " A very solemn and awful declaration, no doubt ! and one

which should set us all upon carefully examining ourselves,
whether we be, or be not, ' in the faith.'

    " The objection may run thus : If every unbeliever is to

be damned, and if belief, or justifying faith, implies, in its

essence, a personal appropriation of the benefits of Christ's

redemption, then (in strictness) no one can be saved, except he
be able so to appropriate the merits of Christ to his own case :

Christ's flock, it is allowed, is a little flock ; but how exceed
ingly, nay, how alarmingly, will that little flock be lessened by

such a definition as the above, which seems so much to narrow

the way, and straiten the gate that leads to life !
"
"  § 11.  The answer is   this.          case  it should  be found,
          any particular  or individual
   If in
I(what take to be not uncommon in practice,) that there may

exist a true sound state of the qualifications or preparatives, in

the sense above stated, and yet the sinner, thou:h so qualified
or so prepared, may not yet have been able to lay hold of the

mercies of Christ in the way of a personal appropriation of them

by faith, to his own case ; this must be owing either to a want
of a clear view of the freeness of Christ's salvation, caused,

perhaps, by some extraordinary temptations of Satan, or by an

excessively deep sense of unworthiness, producing an unreason
able and improper timidity of resolution, with lowness of the

animal spirits, or, lastly, in some cases, from a degree of dulness
or imperfection in the intellect itself ; for it is by no means true,
that the clearness of a contrite sinner's perceptions does always

keep pace with the sanctified affections and sensibilities of his

heart.

    " Now whenever instances of this kind take place, I cannot

suppose that such characters are to be excluded from the
1<?0 CHAP. XI. A.l). 1799. #:tat. 49.

kingdom of God, even though they may never, in this life,
attain to the brightness of Gospel light, or, in other words, to
the full assurance of hope. Such persons, it is true, can
scarcely be said to have attained a perfect faith of appropriation ;
yet who can deny but that they may still have hold of the hem
of Christ's garment, or who can suppose that their defects or
imperfections, in regard to the matter of faith, are not pardon

able defects, insomuch that God, who alone sees the heart, may

impute to them that faith which they seem to be on the very
edge of attaining?

    "§ 12. If it should here be further objected that, according

to these ideas, it is not faith that saves a sinner, but certain

qualifications or preparatives, I observe, that it may appear,

perhaps, on a review of what has been said, that an answer has,

in fact, been already given to this objection.

     " For we have already seen that the contrite sinner, who

possesses the requisite preparatives, though he may have been
too diffident to exercise a faith of appropriation, may yet fairly
be said to be in a probable state of salvation. Yes! in a
probable state of salvation, even though he do not possess that

faith which (in strictness) justifies. It may well be doubted,

for example, whether the thief on the cross had obtained, in
strictness of speech, the faith which justifies ; yet who can
doubt of his salvation through the merits of the Saviour?

    " The Holy Scriptures, in describing the way in which salva

tion is obtained, lay open that great and most important matter
with all possible clearness and precision. Among many other

passages I would mention that most explicit one in the Acts,

viz., ' Repentance towards God and faith towards our Lord
Jesus Christ.' Here it should seem that repentance is to be

found in what I have called the qualifications or preparatives.

I do not say that repentance and those qualifications are

convertible terms; but I see distinctly- that those qualifications
imply a very great part, if not the whole, of repentance -- and

then it is particularly to be observed, that there is superadded
the expression, 'Faith towards our Lord Jesus Christ!' Briefly,
therefore, the repentance -- the being weary and heavy-laden --
the mind's acquiescence in the Gospel plan of salvation -- in one
     CHAR XI. A.I). 1799. jETAT. 40.                              191

word -- the qualifications or preparatives, are the firm ground

work upon which the believer stands, in order that he may

embrace the promises by the simple act of appropriating the

merits of Christ to his own soul ; for it is, indeed, by this last-

mentioned act that he becomes united to Christ, in which union

his  "saSfeoty,mourchsalsveaetmiosn,    consists.
                                      necessary
                                                   in  order  to  give a clear idea of

the Scriptural plan of the salvation of a sinner, but when that
idea is once clearly conceived, it does not follow but that some

latitude may be allowed in the practical application of it.

Thus, for example, when the woman in the crowd strove to

touch the garment of Christ, there was, doubtless, in a certain

sense, an actual exercise of personal faith. She not only

believed that there was virtue in Christ to heal her, but she

believed also that there was a willingness in the Saviour to

heal her on her making such an application.

    "§ 13. On this subject a very important question arises,
viz., whether Mr. E.'s view, which I have stated in these pages,

be the safer view of the two, and the more likely to produce

good practical consequences; or again, whether this view, which

insists on a personal appropriation of the Saviour's merits by
faith, be not attended with considerable danger, and liable to
much abuse, if taught and insisted on in all its simplicity.

    "To satisfy these inquiries, I would, in the first instance,

observe, that the previous question in a doctrinal matter of
this sort ought always to be, ' Is the statement true and certain,

or is it doubtful, and perhaps false?' If a doctrine be really

found in Scripture, and be agreeable to the analogy of faith, we

are not to be alarmed on account of any invidious representa

tion of its consequences in regard to any imaginary danger.
We are, in general, very poor judges of the consequences of

doctrines. The simple inquiry, therefore, ought to be, whether

the doctrinal point on which we are inquiring be, or be not,

taught in the word of God. If it be taught there, no dangerous

consequences can possibly ensue from properly inculcating it.

Moreover, it has constantly been the practice of controver

sialists in religion to lay stress on some popular objection
grounded on the score of danger, which they suppose must
192 CHAP. XI. A.I). 1799. *TAT. 49.

infallibly attend on the tenets of their opponents ; and this

practice is not to be commended.

    "§ 14. After having premised so much on this supposed
head of dangerous consequences, I now proceed to observe that

a very diligent consideration of this matter has convinced me

that the aforesaid idea of justifying faith, which I here under

take to explain and support, so far from being dangerous in

its consequences, is, of all things that can be imagined, that

principle of practical religion which cannot fail to insure a
harvest of good works. The 'secret of the Lord' is said to be
' with them that fear Him ;' and, to my mind, that very secret

is here, viz., that no man can appropriate to his own soul the

saving mercies of Christ, who is not habitually fighting the

good fight. I believe that it does not please God to give this

assurance of hope to low and negligent exertions, or to poor and

mean attainments in the Christian life. A hypocrite will find

that he cannot support the belief that Christ has saved him, so

long as he is inactive or unfruitful in the Christian course.

    " I would endeavour to open this matter somewhat more

explicitly, and for this purpose let us keep in view the difference

between Mr. E  's notion of justifying faith and my own.

     "After what has been said that difference may be briefly
expressed in these words. Mr. Edwards represents the faith of

the believer as consisting in an application to the Saviour. On

the contrary, availing myself of Mr. E.'s own words, I consider

it as that act of the believer whereby he applies the Saviour to

himself.

    " § 15. It is, I think, abundantly clear from Scripture, that,

whatever constitutes the essence of justifying faith, the possessor

of the right faith is in a state of salvation : and further, it is

equally clear that he that believeth not shall be damned, so that

salvation and a true faith are infallibly connected together.

These things could not escape the sagacity and diligence of

Mr. Edwards.

"The next step of this very accurate reasoner seems to

have been this, viz., that whoever applies to the Saviour in

the sense which he has described, or in other words, whoever

possesses the qualifications which I have been describing as
    CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. «TAT. 49.                                 193

the necessary groundwork for a subsequent appropriating faith,
cannot fail to be, also, in a state of salvation ; and then the con

clusion seemed to be perfectly unexceptionable, that justifying

faith consisted in the aforesaid qualifications.

    " In one word, justifying faith secures the safety of the

believer ; so do the qualifications just mentioned ; and as nothing

short of justifying faith can secure the safety of the believer, it

would follow, that justifying faith and these very qualifications

must be, in substance, the same tiling. And thus, if I am right
in my stating of the errors of Mr. Edwards, I think I cannot

be wrong in this mode of tracing his mistake.

    " It appears to me, that this great divine was led into the

mistake by not observing, 1st, that a well-grounded appropria

tion of Christ's merits implies every good thing which his
system of qualifications can be supposed to contain, so that

there can be no room left for delusion; and 2ndly, that the

qualifications themselves, when abundant and truly of the right

sort, though they do not imply an actual appropriation of the
Saviour's merits, do, nevertheless, imply so much of a disposi

tion to lay hold of the Gospel promises, and to appropriate
them, as to exclude all doubt of the salvation of him who is

allowed to be so qualified.

    " § 16. Still I keep my mind on the question just stated,

namely, which of the two views of justifying faith is the safer?

and further, these yery considerations will very much help us
to elucidate that important question. And here my mind is

led to inquire into the practical consequences of the two

systems as thus stated.

    " To me it appears very clear, that the man who considers

justifying faith as consisting only in a general belief and appro
bation of the Gospel way of salvation, will be much more likely
to rest contented with low views of the holiness of God, and

with a feeble contrition and penitence on account of a sinful
nature and sinful practice, than one who cannot rest satisfied
with his views of Christ's salvation till he is enabled to lay hold

of  the promises to his  own   personal  comfort.
                         say,  ' God is  holy and
     " The former may                              just,  mankind  are

fallen and wicked, and Christ has purchased redemption,' and

                                                          o
194 CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. *TAT 49.

may, I think, much more easily thus rest contented with slight

views of the nature of conversion and sanctification, than the

latter can do, who examines himself whether he be actually

weary and heavy-laden, and not only examines himself on

these points, but prays importunately for deliverance from the

plague of an evil heart, and for ability both to rejoice in

God's salvation, and also to relish the beauty of holiness. The
one may be content with knowing that he is to apply to the

Saviour for every blessing, while the other feels that he has

applied for the grace of God, knows whom he has trusted, and

goes on cheerfully in the narrow way.

    "§ 17- And here a distinction of some consequence in this

inquiry occurs to my mind.

    "An erroneous or ill-grounded appropriation of the merits of
Christ is, I allow, much more dangerous than a defect in the
Iaforesaid qualifications; but then, think, such a delusion is, in

fact, much less frequent, and, from the reason of the thing,

much less likely to happen, than the other.

   "A truly serious and intelligent person, who has studied the

Scriptures, will not easily appropriate the merits of Christ to

his own case, without a very strict examination into those
qualifications which entitle him to do so. And in fact, he be
           a

                          if,
striving to enter in at the strait gate,' or, in other words, beis, '
striving to obtain peace with God, by sound faith in his Son,

he will labour to attain those holy views, of the divine cha

racter, and along with them, that deep contrition of soul, which

will enable him to trust in Jesus with conscience at ease
                                         aa
through the blood of the covenant.           person who  in
                                             it
    "§ 18. Whereas, on the other hand,               is

structed to look at the qualifications as the essence of his faith,

and the foundation of his peace with God, may, as appears

to me, be much sooner brought into belief, that he has
                                         Ia
obtained enough for the ease of his conscience in this world,

and the safety of his soul in the next.      am, at present, not

speaking of downright hypocrites who are deceiving both them

selves and others, whatever may be their views of justifying

faith, that whether they think consists in qualifications or
       it

in appropriation, but of truly sound Christians, so far as  a
             CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. /ETAT. 49.              195

judgment can be formed; and here I cannot but think (after
much consideration), that the Christian whose notion of justify
ing faith consists in the attainment of qualifications, as its
essence, is in much more danger of becoming negligent, and
contented with a low state of grace, and, perhaps, of deceiving
his own heart, and even of falling away at length from the
soundness of Gospel doctrine and Gospel practice. The reason
is, that his system is much more loose and undefined, and

unless great care be taken, is liable to degenerate into pha-

risaism.                             It is true, he must labour

    "Not so the other character.

incessantly to obtain the very qualifications so often spoken of,

but then he does not rest in those qualifications. They are to
enable him to believe, that is, to appropriate the merits of
Christ to his own case. His object, therefore, is by far more

simple than that of the other, who rests in the qualifications as

the end of his Christian exercises.

    "§ 19. This, I think, is a distinction of considerable conse

quence in practice. For, it may be further observed, that the

simplicity of which I here speak, pervades every part of the

practice of that believer whose faith consists in a direct appro

priation of the merits of Christ. It is by no means confined
to the single act of believing. I wish I could so trace the

difference between the two characters, now in the view of my
mind, as to render that conception of the thing (which seems
abundantly plain to myself) easy to be apprehended by others

also.

    " The appropriating believer has the Saviour before his eyes

in every thing that he does. He looks constantly to him for

orders, because he is the captain of his salvation, and he is

fighting under his banners. In all his distresses he cries to

him for help, because he has put his trust in him, and to him

committed his cause. He is little shaken by temptation,

because he is acquainted with his deliverer. He is not always

seeking for his treasure, because he is conscious that he has

found it;    accordingly he  values  it and rejoices   in its possession.
    " It is  very true that  he was                   this treasure, this
                                      led to obtain

pearl of great price, through the medium of qualifications and

                                                      o2
196 CHAP. XL A.D. 1799. «TAT. 49.

preparatives. These qualifications pointed out to him the neces
sity of a Saviour, the misery of man, and the holiness and

mercy of God ; they therefore impelled him to lay hold of the

proffered means, but having obtained this great end of all the

means, it is the less necessary for him to keep these in per

petual contemplation, because the presence of his Saviour does

for him all that he can desire, and all that can be needful for

his happiness and for his progress in the Christian course.
"
    §  20.  As  I   trust it is the  sincere  desire  of my mind  to state

all the arguments which occur to me on this subject, with strict

impartiality, I must not dissemble that there does seem to be

(after all) a certain view of this question which may be sup

posed to be favourable to Mr. E.'s conceptions of the nature of

justi"fyIitngmfaayithb.e urged, e.g. that notwithstanding all the oppo
sition which I have made to Mr. E.'s ideas, I still have been

compelled to make several very important concessions.

    " E. g. Do I not allow that the qualifications of which we

have so largely treated, are essential to the character of the

true believer? Do I not allow that the Christian cannot pos
sibly be justified without them? And then, further, have I not,

in fact and substance, admitted that that act of appropriation

by which the believer applies the Saviour to his own case, is an

act not absolutely essential to his salvation? Have I not ad

mitted, that if the qualifications be but genuine, the act of

appropriation may be safely dispensed with, and that, in reality,
this act may be considered as, without doubt or controversy,
virtually implied in the mind of him who possesses the qualifi

cations?

    " Lastly, if these things be really so, is it possible to support

a doubt on which side the advantage lies ? and does not this

great rule of practice suggest itself to our minds, viz. : ( Let

your anxiety be respecting the qualifications; examine them
narrowly-- use all diligence about them; watch every avenue to
Ifdelusion in this matter.
                                     you secure the qualifications, you
cannot be essentially wrong --any other defect you may have will

be venial; for, in truth, it will be rather a theoretical, than a

practical defect.'
              CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. *TAT. 49.                             197

" § 21. On the other hand, the man who lays great stress on

his system of appropriation may        true) be safe; but still,
                                      (it
                                          is

                                                ;

                                                                  is
his safety depends on the soundness of his qualifications, rather

than on the confidence of his appropriation. In his appro

priation, he may easily be deluded and he                             the more

likely to be so, in proportion as he sets a high comparative

value on that attainment, and thinks meanly of the requisite

qualifications.

    " It may, therefore, be thought, that, at the best, there can

be but little gained by the system of appropriation, however cor

rectly may be understood in theory, or however justly applied
it

           ;

               it

                      a is
in practice but             very obvious, that by misapprehension
                                       it,
of the doctrine, or misapplication of
                                                  a
                                       the greatest mischief

may be the consequence.               will not be denied, that there

    " 22. In this statement,
is                          if
                                  it
           §
so much truth as to call for abundant practical caution and
                                                                      :
the caution will ever be found to consist in studiously con
                                                                           it
tending for the due qualifications as essentially necessary to

form the foundation of personal appropriation of the Saviour's

merits. For, no doubt,      this consideration be left out, or

only slightly insisted on, we corrupt the word of God and
pervert his Gospel to the destruction of the soul. But be

ever remembered, that on no occasion are we to surrender theis it

truth, because may, by possibility, be perverted or abused.
Our business to take care, that while we are contending for

the sound and essential doctrine of appropriation, we do not

forget, or lower, or speak lightly of the requisite qualifica
tions. These must be insisted upon with all our might,
and all our care and diligence. Moreover, the answer to
such statements as the above in favour of the qualifications,
whenever these are insisted on to the disparagement of the
doctrine of appropriation, will ever consist in the two following

things: --
    " The first is, that this doctrine, when properly taught, by

one who rightly divides the word of God, not only possesses
every advantage which the system of qualifications can pretend
to, but also carries the believer much further in his Christian

views and conceptions, than that system can possibly do and
                                                                      ;
198 CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. JETAT. 49.

no wonder: it is more Scriptural in itself, and therefore it is

not to be treated as a piece of mere technical theory in religion.

By this system the union with the Saviour becomes more close,

more steady, and consequently cannot fail to prove more pro

ductive. The man who rests his all on preparatives and

qualifications, or does so in a great measure, may, I allow, be

still substantially right, in the main; but the man who is in the

habit of appropriating, is he, who, I think, has a much more

     distinct view of Jesus Christ as his Redeemer, and will pro-

V bably abide in him more uniformly throughout the course of his

pilgrimage.

    " To illustrate and support this point by Scriptural expres
sions and Scriptural examples, would be a very useful work, if

undertaken and executed by one who is wise in the Sacred

Writings, and who has had experience of the Divine life in
his own soul, as well as of the artifices and bufferings of

Satan.

    " § 23. The. other thing to which I have just alluded, which

ought also to be kept in mind, by any one who wishes to
observe upon the aforesaid statement in favour of the notion

of qualifications and preparatives, has already been touched on,

in the course of these remarks, and particularly at § 16, viz.,
that whatever may be said in general, on the heads of the safety
of qualifications, as opposed to the idea of appropriation, in the
article of justifying faith, there is very great danger of a
Christian's resting content with much inferior degrees of holi

ness, and much slighter attainments of personal connexion with
the Saviour, and much lower gifts of the Holy Spirit.

    " And here also, I conceive, much might be said, to good

purpose, on the great danger of resting in such low and doubtful

qualifications. It might easily be shown, that it is by no means

true, that this side of the question is so very safe as it is pre

tended to be.

       "The man who is eager to appropriate, and who cannot

I appropriate without a broad and solid foundation to support

him, such a man will, most probably, be anxious to abound in

the true Christian preparatives or qualifications.  Not so, I

believe, the man whose system is to rest in the said qualifica
                CHAP. XI. AJ). 1799. MTAT. 49.                                                                                   199

tions ; and the reason is very plain. The former has an object

to obtain; he cannot gain his object, that
                         ;                    he cannot appro

                                         is,
priate, without the preparatives he, therefore, labours to

possess them but the latter, having no distinct object in view,
a

             :
beyond general notion of Christian qualifications, appears to

me to want altogether that spur which accelerates the course of

the former.              turned the other way; and person
                         is
    " Thus the argument
                                                I

                                                                                 a
well furnished with Gospel doctrines may, think, prove this

point, with much clearness and precision."

It may be allowable to conclude this chapter with the

quotation of an eloquent passage from one of Dean Milner's

sermons, apparently written while his mind was employed upon

the subject of the foregoing dissertation*.
" It may be hard to say whether
                                             do more harm by
'

                    !
                                   !'

                                         a

                                 I

                                                                                                     a
preaching Peace peace to mere nominal Christian, to

wicked worldling, who has obtained no saving interest in the

Redeemer's merits; or by denying to a sincere believer in

Christ, that consolation and rest to his conscience, which the

Scriptures hold forth to such characters. In both cases,
?

                 is
                              a

                                                        by
                                                                    is

                                                                                                                               :

                                                        if I
should act very ignorantly and very unfaithfully. The true

servant of Christ has right to look up to the Father of Jesus

as his Father, and to Jesus himself as his elder Brother and

this be so, why not the man to be told so, in so many plain

words But in regard to one who,        sin, daily crucifying

his Saviour afresh, there can be neither truth nor propriety in

applying the same language to him: he must, in the first place,

deeply repent in dust and ashes, and, by prayer and application

for mercy at the throne of grace, through Christ, must acquire

ground to believe that he has an appropriate interest in the

merits of the Redeemer.

    " But have not all men (it will be asked) an interest in the

sufferings and death of the Son of God Has any particular
'

     a
                                                                     a?
                                                                                    i.,

                                                                                                                              ?
person ground for higher pretensions in this matter Are we

not all sinners, and therefore all on        perfect level in this

* See Sermons of Dean Milner, vol. p. 196.
200 CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. JETAT. 49.

respect ?' Such questions, I acknowledge, are quite pertinent

to this inquiry; and the answers which they call forth will very

much elucidate the subject before us.

    " It is very true, and be it ever remembered with unfeigned

and universal gratitude, that Christ is the propitiation for the

sins of the whole world. So far, every human creature that

treads this globe may be said to have an important interest in

the sufferings and death of Christ. Indeed, so very important

is this truth, that it is the very first consideration that gives

any good ground for hopes of pardon to a guilty sinner, and

affords ease to his burdened soul. Here he fixes his foot ; and

though surrounded with fears and misgivings, with guilt and
danger, still he may bid defiance to despair. ' Christ,' says

he, 'died for all sinners, without a single exception. The gate

is strait, I do believe ; but no one shall tell me it is not open.'

Such is the poor penitent's argument, and, God be praised ! it
is a perfectly sound argument -- and his interest in Jesus Christ

is, so far, effectually established. I say, so far, because we

must here most carefully distinguish, and remember, that this

is by no means that interest in Christ which enables the sinner,
in the true spirit of adoption, to cry ' Abba Father ;' this is not

that interest in Christ which a sanctified penitent servant of

God has obtained.

    " Once more ; this general, or rather, universal interest in
the Redeemer, of which I have been speaking, important as it
is, is no more than what the greatest, and I may add, the most

        is,
                                    it

                                              it
                                                                                ;

                                                                                           a ; it,
impenitent sinner alive may have. Nay, he actually has

whether he ever makes use of or not and, on the dreadful

*****supposition, that he dies impenitent, will, at the last day, be

his greatest condemnation, that he did not, while alive, make
use of this interest.

"There  therefore, something further to be acquired,

beyond this general or universal interest in Christ Jesus

something to be done by which an appropriate interest may be

established; something on which may be grounded the rela

tionship of Father and Son, between Almighty God as
Father, and the penitent sinner as one of his children --

between Christ Jesus, the elder Brother, and the penitent
CHAP. XI. A.D. 1799. jETAT. 49.  201

sinner, as a brother and joint heir with Christ his Lord. In
other words, that general interest which all mankind have in
the salvation and redemption by Jesus must be carried into
effect by every man for himself, in each particular case, in order
that Christ may not have shed his blood in vain."

     The above quotation cannot fail to be interesting to the
readers of this memoir of Dean Milner, both as exhibiting a
considerable accordance with the preceding thoughts on justifi
cation, and also as affording a fair sample of the usual style
and manner of his addresses from the pulpit.
                                                          202

                         CHAPTER XII.

Animadversions upon Lord Grenville's Answer to Buonaparte's Letter to

     George III. --Correspondence. --Religious Experience. -- William Hey,

       Esq. -- Liberality of Dean Milner towards the poor of Leeds. -- Letters to
       Rev. Wm. Richardson. --Distress of Mind. -- Professor Carlyle. -- Remarks
       on the Religious Experience of Dean Milner. -- Letters Dr. Haweis'
      Impartial History of the Church. --Dean Milner's Life of his Brother. --
       Subsequent additions to the Life respecting the change in Joseph Milner's
      Religious Views. --Dr. Milner's Feelings during the Writing of the Life. --
      Elasticity of Spirits. --Charge of Irregularity recently brought against
      the late Rev. Joseph Milner. -- Dr. Hook. -- Letter to the Rev. James
      Stillingfleet. -- Dr. Haweis. --Letter to a Friend on the dangerous Illness
      of his Sou. -- Letters to Rev. Wm. Richardson. -- Opinion of the present
       Bishop of Calcutta upon Dean Milner's Religious Publications. -- Dean
      Milner's attachment to Cambridge. -- His conscientious Employment of
       Time.

                              AD. 1800. JETAT. 50.'

Dean Milner's political sentiments, his decided and strong

attachment to the existing institutions of the country, being
considered, it is impossible not to perceive and admire the
sagacity which dictated the letter from which the following
extract is taken, on the subject of Lord Grenville's answer to

the letter then recently addressed to King George III., by

Napoleon Buonaparte.

    It is needless to say that numbers of persons belonging to

the political party to which Dr. Milner conscientiously adhered,
thought and advised differently ; but in politics, as in all other
matters, he invariably thought for himself.

              "To WilMAM WiLBERFORCE, ESQ.
                                   " Queen's College, January 21, 1800.

    * * * " If I had had his * note to answer, I would

have been a deal more civil in words, but equally firm in sub

stance. They were, I think, perfectly right in not letting the
King answer --but why could they not have said, ' We are glad

to hear of the very name of peace, in any way or in any form ;

                                                           Buonaparte's.
                   C11AP. XII. A.D. 1800. jGTAT. 5O.           203

but what signifies asking us whether the war is to be eternal ?

You propose nothing; we have formerly proposed, and have

been sent back with contempt. You show no disposition to

peace but in talk ; and at the very same time, you tell your

armies    you are  going to invade us, &c., &c.'   meditating  some
           seems
    " It           to me, that if Buonaparte were

violent measure, either on us, or on the allies, or both ; and

wished to influence France, and make the people contribute

freely, and the soldiers fight in earnest, we, by such an answer,

shou"ldIncoancwuorrdw, itchonhciemivemohsitmefafetcttuhaellyh. ead of his troops, with

our answer in his hands, and commenting upon it.

   " I cannot think, that any thing would have been lost, by

shewing a disposition to hear.                        from the insta
                                                      not have con
   I" would have stated the objection arising
bility of their government; but still, I would

sidered it as an effectual bar to hearing what they have to say.

It is ridiculous to talk of Buonaparte's government being a

government only of a day or two ; be it so. Suppose he offers

to quit Belgium, and to put you and the allies in possession of
everything they could wish ; would you refuse the advantage

because he is an upstart ?

    " There is no probability of any such thing, I believe, in the
main ; yet I declare I should be surprised at nothing ; and I

would never have exasperated him, nor shut his mouth. Hear

Ihim, say, hear him ; but don't give up a particle to him. I

suppose it wDl be said, that he wanted his authority to be
recognised by us-- it may be so -- but possibly, he wanted it to

be rejected. I don't know enough of the interior of France, or
of his particular views, to say well what he wants ; but I am

sure, there would have been great use in letting him go on, and

in seeing what he is driving at. There would have been no

harm in expressing the utmost doubts as to his stability, nor

Iwould have expressed those doubts at all in friendly terms ;

but there is a deal of difference between friendship and civility.

Nothing like a wish for his stability, should have come from

me ; and for similar reasons, I would have said nothing about
the old line of princes. Alas ! alas ! only think -- in a very
204 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. .STAT. 50.

short time you may be on your knees to this very B., and

begging him to admit you to negotiate ! I hope our people

will not ride the great horse ; it is such a horrid measure. Not

that, on the whole, I expect a successful negotiation ; but I

wish the argument to be on our side when it is broken off, and

that we may say with truth, as the Americans did, 'We have

exhausted the last drop of the cup of reconciliation.' Those
that give our Ministers credit for more discretion and foresight

than I do, may view this matter in a different light. They may

suppose, that they know, that nine parts out of ten of France'
are ripe for restoring monarchy ; and that the allies, the three
great powers, have solemnly coalesced, and sworn to set all
matters on their old footing ; and lastly, that they will keep

their vows. If all this be absolutely foreknown, I grant it will

make some difference in the reasoning ; but really not a great

deal, even then ; still I would have given him civil words,
however I had thought it necessary to guard against strengthen

ing his authority.

    "Every body that I see, thinks with me, except W

who has long been violent for the Duke of Portland, Wyndham,
&c."

     The following letter to Mr. Richardson of York, although
somewhat similar in its character to one addressed a short time
before to Mr. Wilberforce *, is, if possible, yet more touching

and affecting. It cannot fail to be read with advantage and

with deep interest by all religious persons ; and to such of the
religious friends of the late Dean Milner as may still survive,
it will be in the highest degree satisfactory.

     These considerations justify its publication.

"To the Rev. William Richardson.

" My dear Sir,                      " Queen's College Lodge,

                                       4th February, 1800.
" When we are upon a footing of ceremony with people, we
seldom fail to answer their letters very punctually ; and I assure

                * Chap. x. p. 177-
CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. .ETAT. 50.                           205

you I have often thought it to be an odd sort of proof of friend

ship, to neglect, for a long time, the kind communications of

those whom we sincerely love and regard. It is far from being

the best sort of proof, I admit; but still it is a real proof--at
least, I must not give up the point just now, when I have

before me (unanswered) your truly kind letter of the 23rd of

November last.

    " It set my mind at ease at the time, in regard to the
Isubjects it referred to, and have looked it over several times
since with great pleasure. I have experienced a very afflicting
winter on the whole. I have had a deal of pain ; but by far

the worst to bear is the affection of the mind.

    " My views have, of late, been exceedingly dark and dis

tressing; in a word, Almighty God seems to hide his face.         I

    " I entrust the secret hardly to any earthly being.

endeavour to pour out my heart before God; but really I
receive so little that I can fairly call answers, in any shape,

that my heart fails, and I know not what will become of me.
I feel assured, that, for a good while, my earnest desire has been

to serve God according to my station, and to give myself

I Iwholly to Him ; and hoped was going on tolerably well :
Ibut find it no easy matter to look death and judgment in the

face ; and the thing which most dispirits me is, that my own

case takes up so much of my attention, that, in a measure, my

usefulness is destroyed, or at least lessened.

    " I see my fault to be, that I am impatient in prayer, and

do not hope and wait quietly : but how to get the better of

this, I am utterly at a loss. I don't know whether I make

you understand me perfectly. In one word, as my prospects

here in this world grow darker and darker as to bodily decay,

I would fain have my evidences of a good hope brighten, -- else,

what is to support me? There is, doubtless, a good deal of

bodily affection mixed with this ; but it is not all so, and the

Idevil is very busy. I bless God, however, that never lose

sight of the Cross, as the great thing to cling to ; and though

I should die without seeing any personal interest in the
Redeemer's merits, I think, -- I hope, I should be found at his

feet. If I am to be saved at all, it is assuredly in this way.
206 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. JETAT. 50.

This conviction has not yet been shaken in my mind ; but it is

a blind sort of faith, and nearer allied to despair than to confi

dence. I see plainly, indeed, that there is no other way, but
still I do not see               I
    " I will thank    but  that     may   perish.  leisure.  My door is
                      you   for  a  word  at your

bolted all the time I am writing this, for I am full of tears.

    "The first volume of the Ecclesiastical History is nearly
reprinted : it has been a very laborious job ; but if I am spared
I will try what I can make of the fourth volume.

    " I am ordered by the Archbishop to preach at St. James's

Chapel on Friday, the 28th instant, and I certainly intend to
do so. They don't often hear the truth, I fear.

                                                                       " I. M.
    " P.S. Our good friend Stillingfleet wrote to me, by this

post, the kindest letter imaginable : quite in his style.

   " I have heard from Carlyle, at Constantinople ; all is well.
I repeat
        a             am extremely pleased with Bulmer."

      The state of Dean Milner's health at this period inducedI iIt,
him to recur to the advice of his friend, the late William
it                         ;a
Hey, Esq., of Leeds, whose letters exhibit eminent piety and;
friendly regard, as well as professional skill.it

     In letter dated February 19th, 1800, this gentleman
writes, --" will endeavour to dispose of the liberal supply you
have sent me, in comforting many distressed persons."

     This passage refers to sum of money sent at stated times
by Dr. Milner to Mr. Hey, to be by him distributed among
such of his poor patients as might be unable to procure for

themselves the comforts which their circumstances required.

It would ill become the biographer of Dean Milner to publish

the deeds of Christian liberality which were done by him in
secret but may be allowable to say, that amid his many acts
of benevolence, to strangers, as well as to his own poor relatives,
he was ever ready to allow the peculiar claims of his indigent
fellow- townsmen of Leeds with respect to them in particular

   might be truly said, that " the blessing of him that was ready
to perish came upon" him; and he "caused the widow's heart
to sing for joy."
            CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. jETAT. 60.  207

     Mr. Richardson, as it appears, replied very kindly to the
affecting communication from Dean Milner, dated February
4th, and the Dean, always peculiarly grateful for kindness, thus
again wrote to him from the residence of Mr. Wilberforce, in
Old Palace Yard.

            "To the Rev. William Richardson.

My dear Friend,  " Old Palace Yard,

                 Westminster. March 1th, 1800.
" I will seize a vacant moment (and it is but a moment) to

assure you that your very kind letter of February 17th, which

is now before me, was truly a cordial to my mind, almost

overwhelmed with darkness and sorrow.

    " May God bless you and visit you with his choicest bless

ings, for so noticing your poor friend.

   " I would hope you are not entirely mistaken in my case,
Iand know you dare not natter; yet, on the other hand, I
Imust not, fear, give you that full credit for understanding my
Isituation in spirituals, which should wish to do.

    " Next to any immediate act of kindness which you are so

good as to show to my poor self, there is no possible way in
which you can so effectually secure and call forth my grateful
feelings towards you, as by the friendly attention which you

pay to the writings of my deceased brother. I know the
Itrouble such an undertaking gives ; and therefore know how
to appreciate your regard to his memory. Still I entreat

you not to flag in this matter*. Again, my dear friend, God

bless you.       " Your affectionate

                                              I. M."

     The following letter to the same excellent friend affords,
besides other interesting matter, an instance of the great
kindness which it was Dr. Milner's invariable practice to

bestow upon such deserving young men as were recommended

to his favourable attention.

* Mr. Richardson was engaged in preparing for publication a volume of Joseph
                                               Milner's Sermons.
208 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. *TAT. 50.

           "To the Rev. William Richardson.

" My dear Friend,                 " Queen's College Lodge,
                                      April 10th, 1800.
    " Mr. B. kindly called upon me to-day, to say that a friend

of his was going to York to-morrow morning ; and so I take

advantage of the opportunity to write you a short letter,

though I have    nothing very particular to say.  young                                                                               man.  I
    " B. really  is a very amiable, mild, taking

am greatly pleased with him. His public dispute called his

act, is lately put off till the next term, on account of the death

of a Master of Arts of St. John's. When such an event takes

place in term time, it causes three days non-term, and no
business is done : so poor B., who was ready charged and
primed, must keep in that state till he has an opportunity of

    a it

       a

                       :

                   II
                                                1
                                  it a
                                                               a I it,
firing. He was very little discomposed about                                                                                          though he

said he could not well set about other business till he had got

that off his mind.   have known some people in his circum

stances exceedingly ruffled by such an event.                                                                                         wish his

    " He seems, indeed, excellently disposed, and

modesty would let him call upon me oftener than he does;

for would really be  pleasure to me to do service to

such lad and those subjects have been so familiar to me

for long time, that  gives me no trouble to assist one

in his situation.    gave him some advice about spending

his summer, but mean to send for him and examine him

particularly.

    " May Almighty God bless you always, and return seven

times into your bosom your kindness shewn to me lately, both

in what you said, and in the dispatch you used in answering

my  letter.

    " cannot     but think there  something sadly wrong about
I
      I

           aI I
                              I

                                                         is

                                                                                                                                   ;
my views, or my way of going on, in some respect or other, or

should not be so very much in this great darkness and

dismay.    assure you sometimes think my mind will lose all
its tone.    aim as much as possible at two things: -- 1st, to

keep up steady, praying, waiting spirit, for light and, 2nd, to
surrender my own will to His will entirely, and therefore to
               C11AP. XII. A.I). 1800. jBTAT. 80.        209

Iallow no known sin. This must surely be right ; but suppose
II do not do what I say. There is something wrong,
                                                         am

Isatisfied, or should not be so miserable, and have so little
Iconfidence towards God, at the times when most want it. There

is nothing that I see clearer, than that my continued afflictions

Iare useful and even necessary to me. In intervals of health,

can pray very sincerely for the return of illness, if expedient.
I really tremble when I grow better, so disposed am I to wander

into the old way of worldly-mindedness, and of pleasing self ;

but when the fits of illness come, I do not, I believe, properly

kiss the rod. Yet I really cannot charge myself with much

murmuring ; I thank God, I have got over that a good deal ;

but a sort of melancholy sulkiness comes on, and a want of

cheerful submission. No earthly being can tell what I suffer in
mind and body. I should be very grateful to you to write again

to me at your leisure.

    " It pleased God that I got through my business in London

tolerably well.

    " There are certain things that I must do, or else I must
give up all. I endeavour to go on as well as I can, and to live,

as it were, from day to day ; my motto is, ' Sufficient for the

day,' &c. &c.
"I
          am your obliged  and faithful  friend  and servant,

                                                     " I. MilNEr.

    " N.B. --The last account -from Carlyle was very concise;

he was quite well; had travelled four hundred miles through
Asia Minor towards Jerusalem ; he was at Kemar, opposite

Cyprus."

    There are, probably, persons who think that " the surviving
friends of Dean Milner,"-- to adopt the words which he himself
used in reference to his departed brother, --" would have con

sulted his reputation much better   by stifling the contents" of
this, as well as of some preceding
                                    letters, " than by thus pub

lishing them, and proclaiming the weakness, and even the

wickedness, of human nature*."

               * See Dr. Mii.ner's Life of his Brother.
210            CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. /ETAT. 50.

     The author of this Memoir willingly confesses, that she has

felt some doubt upon this subject. In addition, however, to

the important consideration of the unquestionable nature of the
evidence afforded by this and others of Dr. Milner's confidential

letters, of his genuine and deep anxiety on the great subject of

religion, she had, for her direction and guidance, his own

example. Acting, doubtless, with a view to the glory of God,

and the spiritual advantage of his fellow-creatures, he did not

deem it necessary or expedient to withhold from the public eye
various private reflections of his departed brother. On the

contrary, he has suffered the readers of his Life of Joseph
Milner to "enter" with him "into his closet," and to "watch

the genuine effusions of his soul," while prostrate before God.

He was well aware that by thus laying open the secret recesses

of his brother's heart, he should cause much surprise to persons

unacquainted with the real nature of the Gospel of Christ, and

might perhaps give occasion to some anxious inquiries, such as,

" What is the cause of all this mourning, under a sense of sin ?

What means this uncomfortable darkness of mind ? Whence

this lamentation over the strength of corruptions, and the
difficulty of resisting temptations ?" To all such inquiries, he

gives the true answer, alike applicable in this, in that, and in

every similar case. " These complaints," says he, " are made

because he who utters them has an entire hatred of sin, and an

exquisite sensibility in perceiving its motions, and because he

hungers and thirsts after righteousness*."

    A remark   of   Joseph    Milner, already   "qTuhoeteyd,aremaaylwpaeysrhatphse
               the  reader's  recollection :--
here occur to

most distressed who have the least reason to be so ; it is the

hest sign in the world."

     The following very interesting letter gives the first intima
tion of Dr. Milner's intention to write a ' Life ' of his brother,

and exhibits his views and feelings with regard to that publica

tion :--

                    Ltfe of Rev. Joseph Milner.
             CHAP. XII. A.D. 180(1. MTA'V. 50.                 211

             "To the Rev. William Richardson.

" Dear Sir,                      " 15M May, 1800,

                                              Queen's College.
" I have before me your's of the 13th April last. You will

have thought me long in answering, particularly as you must
now be near the conclusion*. . * * * When you

hear all, you will, perhaps, rather wonder that I have done so
well as I have, though I have but a lame account to give.

   I" 1. have learned not to trouble myself about errata; I

do as well as I can during the printing of the sheets ; but after
all is over, I really think that the insertion of an errata-sheet is

only proclaiming one's own errors or negligence, and it makes
people look at it and say, ' How badly,' or ' How carelessly,

this book is printed ;' persons who, perhaps, would not other
Iwise have found out one single error. Observe,
                                                               speak

only of common, little, trifling, errors, such as anybody can

correct.

    " 2. I had only to reprint the author's introduction to the

second edition of the first volumet, and then it would have

been done, but a most vile affair has happened, which gives me

a good deal of trouble. Dr. Haweis has lately published an

" impartial history" of the Church of Christ. If you have seen

you will perceive that           quite Jacobinical in Church
it,          t
matters throughout. He speaks handsomely of my brother init
                 I
places, but he has his eye constantly upon him, to pull to pieces
                       it
his notions of establishments.is

    "All this would not in the least have affected me but there
                                              ;
are in the most abominable misquotations and misrepresen
                                               iIf a I
                                                               :
                                                               I
tations of his (my brother's) sentiments, insomuch that my

friends are clear that they ought not to pass unnoticed by me.
The good to be done is, trust, my object, when say, that
acquiesce in their judgment, and am writing sort of long

advertisement or preface to this said volume                am able to
work, will be ready in three or four weeks.
it

             * Of the revUion of the volume of Srrmons.
                             Of the Church History.

                                                         P  2
212 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. *TAT. 50.

    "3. Besides the above, I wish to write something like a
' Life' of my poor dear deceased brother. I am at work, and

have honest Stillingfleet's papers before me.

    " My first view was to have written myself all that may be

called the domestic part of his life, and then to have requested

you to have picked from Stillingfleef s account* a few pages, and
also to have added your own brief sentiments respecting the
internal change of his mind in religious matters. You would,

either of you, have done that much better than I could ; and,

further, it would have been a very great pleasure to me to see

such an account of his life go down to posterity with all our

three names bound together. I do not yet entirely give up the

hope that something or other of that sort may be donef; but,
Iwhen I set to work, really found it would so embarrass me to
Ikeep clear of the religious part of his character, that could
Inot get on at all on that plan, and therefore
                                                                                            have much
Iencroached on what had intended to leave to you and to

Stillingfleet.

   " I have written rapidly, and the thing is very incor

rect at present ; but my friends, who have seen                                             say will
                                                                                            it
do exceedingly well, and, that, though long,                                                    is it,

                                                                                                            it
                                                                                            very enter

taining.                                                                                    not likely to do some
                                                                                            my brother, know
    " Here, again, wish every line that                                                     ; is
good to be blotted out. In commending
          II                                                                                             II
                 is I                                                                                                  aI
am going most expressly against his wish however, say not

word but what         most strictly true.                                                   mean to send you this
                     come to the point.
    " 4. Now to        it
                             it it a

                                   I

                                                 I

                                                    II

                                                                    it
life of my brother in about fortnight, by Mr. Ogle, of Jesus

College.  could send   sooner, so far as am concerned,

because, having Dr. Haweis to take under hand, am hard

worked, and must send you very rough. Indeed wish, and

do beg of you to cut and slash, and do exactly with                                         as you

think fit. You will find in many entertaining things, and

   * Mr. Stillingfleet, as appears from  the names of Richardson and Stilling
                                         fleet will always be associated in me
the printed Life, had himself compiled,  mory with those of Joseph and Isaac

and transmitted to Dean Milner, Life     Mi ns*.
of his brother Joseph.

      In substance has been done; for
t

                         it
                                                        a

                                                                                        i.
               CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. *TAT. 60.                                            213

       some instructive, which, probably, you have never heard of : it

       Ihas almost broken my poor heart to write it; and, assure you,

       I live from day to day, expecting every day, or nearly so, abso

       lutely to break down. * * *

           " I leave it to your judgment entirely, to add a little more
       from Stillingfleet, if you think proper, and also^to insert a page

       or two of your own, on the nature of the change both in my

       brother's heart and head, in religious concerns.

          I" This plan cannot give up : it would, I repeat
                                                                       it             be very
                                                                           is

                                                                                 it,
       pleasant to me but then             I   do not press you, --judge for
            I
       yourself when you see the thing, and the state;                      in.
            " shall be ready, whenever you please, with the volume of
I
     IIHistory; for hope to have all printed off, and Dr. Haweisit
       well flogged, before come to you at York, on or about the
       19th or 20th of June; that should suit, so as not to interfere
                         I

                             if

with your summer excursions.               is            *    *  As to the publication

                                             *
       of the books, month or two of little consequence; or rather,
            a

       think, people get more settled towards September and

       October than during the summer months and we had better
                                                                 ;

       not  "spenshdalol uwr afiirtefotro  no purpose.
                                           your opinion
                                                         and  advice,  and  am,  dear     Sir,
               " Your obliged friend,
                                           " Very sincerely,
                                                                                      I.  M."

     The sparkles of constitutional gaiety, which enliven thisa
otherwise grave and serious letter, will forcibly recall the        a
memory of Dr. Milner to the minds of those who enjoyed his

personal acquaintance.
     The following extracts from letter, addressed to the same

friend, and referring chiefly to the composition and publication

of the Life of Joseph Milner, exhibit, in strong light, the

Dean's extreme tenderness of heart, and his unbounded confi
dence in the judgment and good-will of Mr. Richardson.

"My dear Mr. Richardson,                                 "May, 1800, Queen's College,

    " It was very much my wish                                           Thursday night.
                                                         to have a few hours more to

       employ upon the narrative which                        send you. Still,        don't
                                                         I
                                                                                   I
214 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. jETAT. 50.

Iknow that could have done much more at
       a                                               unless could

          if

                                     I

                                                               it,

                                                                                                                       ;

                                                         I
                                                            I
have   had previous talk with    you.       not quite  sincere.  They
       Friends are partial, and   often,
    "

*****#are here very much pleased with what have written but do

entreat you, you have the least regard for me, to do with this
manuscript exactly as you think best. Cut and slash, -- cut and
slash as much as you please.
" send you good Stillingfleet's narrative along with             and
if                                          it
                                                                it
    II I
                                                                                   ;
                   it                                                                 a
you think right to pick out few pages of his, and to add
                       ;

                            I
                                         a

                                       I
few of your own, descriptive of the interior of my dear brother's

religious principles and religious feelings, would be exceed

ingly acceptable to me but do not press you.                   have been
     " have not neglected business, assure you
                                            1

                                                   ;I
most uncommonly worked; you know told you how Dr.
Haweis plagued me. You will now do just as you think fit
                                                                                                                          ;

and shall expect your commands, whether     I          am to come by

York about the 20th of June, or to wait till my return from

Carlisle.              you did but know how the wounds of

    " Oh my dear Sir,
I
                         !
                                     ;

                       I
                               if

                                                 is

                                 I

                                                                                      a

                                                                                I
my poor heart bleed afresh during this business, you would
pity me. At the same time, will freely own that, though

feel, and bitterly, yet there something of sort of sense, that

am doing what          ought to do on the occasion, and that

thought relieves       but, do save me all you can.

                                 " Yours very affectionately,    "I. M.

" To the Rev. William Richardson."

     The following most characteristic letter, having been written
in the most unrestrained freedom of confidential intercourse,

throws yet greater light upon the feelings and wishes of Dr.
Milner concerning the composition and publication of his Life
of his brother.
                     CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. JETAT. 50.                                                         215

           "To the Rev. William Richardson.

" My dear Friend,                    " Queen's College, June 4, 1800.
    " I received your kind
                               letter with the proposals, &c. *, the

very morning that Mr. Ogle set off from this place with my

little  parcel for   you.   I  must  be at  Carlisle       on  the                       22nd                 instant
        1st. First,  then,
    "

Iat farthest, and consequently must leave York some time on

the 20th.

    "2ndly. In regard to being at your house; you are very
Igood, and take it exceedingly kind, -- I feel
                                     a                                                   assure you.

                                                            it,

                                                        I
At the same time, believe me, man of my infirmities would

rather be at an inn, than at any friend's                  whatever:                                          he can
                                                                                                                       of
indulge his   ill tempers better.           that        M         A                                           ,

    " 3rdly.  It has been supposed

Leeds, was particularly well acquainted with my brother's state
of mind at the time of his change, and had interviews with him.

    " dare say you have heard my brother speak of that
    I

          ;

             I
matter and confess, my opinion is, that he would not com

municate anything material; for             remember, he was thought
                                     I iIf

                                                          is
by  m"yHberothewr,onrotht ytocrheaavtuerec,onadnudc,tedbehliiesvea,dvicemvuecrhy                              prudently.
                                                                                                              improved;
        it is

              a
and yet was a strange thing to bid his audience Read the
                                                                                         '

Anti-Jacobin Review,' and that heard him say from the pulpit,
                                     I

                                                    is
last summer, myself.                                    likely to communicate

    " You will know best whether he

anything useful.                                                                                              fear they

    " 4thly. You will now have read my papers                                                                  You will

are too long, but did not well know where to stop.
                     I
                            I

                                                                                                           ;

                                                                 I
have observed, that all have said does suppose something to

be added respecting the heart-work, the internal struggles, the

change of views, &c.

    " 5thly. wish, really, you would be so good as to say no
              'I

                               is

                                                               a

                                                                                      a
more about spoiling my work,' with the addition of yours, or

any body's else. It not to be considered as thing of that

    * Proposals for the publication of second edition of the first volume of

                     Joseph Milker's Ecclesiastical History.
216 CHA1'. XII. A.D. 1800 jBTAT. SO.

sort: it is a plain, simple narrative, and reads well enough,

because the matter arranges itself, and because the life itself

also is truly entertaining. When you have read and considered

I it,                                                                 should like

                                            it

                                            is is I
                                                  I
                                                               iIt,
    you will best know what wants.                            repeat
us all to go bound up together, that
                                                    what should like, but

see the difficulty, and my heart                    almost broken with the

business.      have mentioned my wishes as above,                             do not
                                                                      I
    " When
is                                                                                  a it

             I

                       I
mean to say that want you to take much trouble, and yet

unfair to ask you to appear at all in without giving youI

                                                it,

                                                       a
respectable magnitude and portion -- really feel all that, on
your account. If you like better to add little without your
name --or -- nay, know not what to say.
II" give
        I" 6thly.

                  I
                          it

                                         a
            you carte blanche.              copies  of        the  Proposals  which  I
               return you few

have got struck off.      may be as well to clip off the bottom

    " rather think

sentence about Haweis just at present and to let that nomi
                                            a
                                                           ;
nation appear just at the time or fortnight before.

     " sad raffled letter --
               " But am always yours truly and affectionately,
                                                                       " M."
A

            I

                                                                              I.

    All persons who were intimately acquainted with Dr. Milner
will allow, that the foregoing letter may be justly styled " most
characteristic." It strikingly exhibits, besides other remarkable

qualities, that peculiar elasticity of mental constitution by
which he was happily distinguished -- happily, because this

elasticity was the very quality of mind which, the expression
        is
                  it
                       is

                                             it

                                                          a

                                                              it if
may be permitted, protected him against the otherwise over

whelming force of his own fervent affections.

For the purpose of rectifying mistake which the perusal

of the above letter may possibly have exc'ted in the minds of

some readers,             proper to observe, that the Life of Joseph

Milner  published exactly as                came from the pen of the

Dean, without any such addition, in that part of which relates

to the great change in his brother's religious views, as in this
letter he desires,
               CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. ETAT. 50.                                            21?

      In a note appended to the printed Life, a declaration to this

effect is made by the Rev. William Richardson.

    It should also be observed, that to the subsequent editions

of the Life, large and important additions were made by the

Dean himself.

      The motives which induced him thus to enlarge this work,

are thus stated by himself*.

    " The writer has been informed, that, after all the explana

tion furnished in the several pages of the first edition of this
narrative, respecting the religious sentiments of Mr. Milner,

and the change which they underwent, some well-disposed

persons have expressed a wish that still further light had been

thrown on these subjects.

    "Two distinct questions are asked: --
    " 1st. What defect or failing could there be, or what change

could be necessary in the character of a clergyman, who, from

his first going into orders, is stated to have been a proficient in

literature sacred and profane; perfectly orthodox in opinion;

Ifzealous andpractical in preaching;                                                    and exemplary in conduct?
                an alteration for the                                                   better really took place, what
    " 2ndly.

are the circumstances which contributed to the improvement
of a character, apparently already so excellent ? In one word,

what is the history and the nature of the alteration ?"

    To these inquiries, which, as Dean Milner observes, " are

not questions of speculation or mere curiosity," but which

" lead to discussions of the last importance," brief, but com

prehensive and satisfactory answers are afforded. Otherwise

than luminously and impressively, Dr. Milner could not write
upon any important subject; it may, therefore, be easily
believed, that in replying to the weighty questions here pro

pounded, he writes with extraordinary force and perspicuity.

The Life of the Rev. Joseph Milner however, so well known,
t

      is it
           is

                                                                             i
                                                                                       a

                                                             is,
that  sufficient to refer the serious reader to any of the

later editions of that truly admirable piece of biographyf.

   * See second edition of the Life,                                                    to charge lately brought against Jo-

published in 1802.                                                                      seph Milner, in common with some

     It perhaps proper here to advert                                                   other excellent clergunen of the pe-
218 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. *;tat. 50.

The second edition of the first volume of the History of the

Church of Christ, of which, with its long preface, Dr. Milner,

in his letter to Mr. Richardson, dated May 15th, speaks*,                                                          as
likely to be " ready in three or four weeks," was published
                                                                                                                   in

the succeeding August.

To this publication allusion is made in the following letter.

              "To the Rev. William Richardson.

" My dear Sir,             " Quern's College, September 8, 1800.
" You must know that the present Bishop of Lincoln and

myself were very intimate at Cambridge.

    " About two years ago, he desired me to get him my
brother's first volume of Ecclesiastical History. I did not

succeed; nor, to say the truth, did I take much pains about
                                                                                              I
as foresaw there would soon be second edition.
                                                                                                               is it,
I                          it                                                                 therefore
        I ft
                                            aa
thought but right to send him copy of the second edition
of Vol. I., the moment was struck off; and the inclosed

the answer from his Lordship, received by me yesterday.
" You will think
                           curious enough to read am sure and
                       it                                                                I
                               it
                                     it                                                              it
                                           *.
                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                           I
therefore have thought worth while to send you                                                                but

beg you will not fail to return

riod charge of '" dariug violation of                                     The chapter " On Ecclesiastical Es
the regulations of the Church;" See                                     tablishments," in the second volume
Dr. Hook's Visitation Sermon, first

edition, published in 18H8. It true

that in the third and subsequent edi
;                                                                       of the History of the Church, likewise
    n                                                                   decisive as to the sentiments of the
                               is                                                             ;
                                                  ; is                  author of that work.              is

tions, the accusatiou  cancelled but                                    Joseph Milner was, doubtless, a man

as that circumstance may have escaped                                   of extraordinary zeal and in his labo
the notice of many persons who may
have a high respect for Dr. Hook's                                      rious discharge  of his sacred office,
                                                                        probably taught    " from house to

authority, may he permitted to ob                                       bouse," in a manner unusual among
I

                                    is
                                                                   ";- *
serve that an attentive perusal of the                                  clergymen   of less energy; but so far
                                                                        from being  guilty of " daring violations
Life of the Hev. Joseph Milner might
                                                                        of the regulations of the Church," he
have convinced Dr. II. of the injustice

of such an accusation. It  there                                        would, from principle, have deprecated

expressly stated, that according to the                 any approach to such line of conduct.
                                                                                              a
best legal opinions which the kingdom                                     See page 211.                is
afforded, "Mr. Milner, by meeting his
                                                                          This letter was not found among
                                                        Dr. Milner's papers. It
own parishioners in his onu jmrish,                                                                        therefore

had dime nothing contrary to any law                    probable that he hart destroyed it.

whatsoever."
         CHAP. XII. A.D. 18ti:>. *TAT. 50.                          219

do  " It is a lamentable truth, that  the bishops of our country

    not understand the real state of  Ireligion ; and yet am not

Isure, that their ignorance has not, in some cases, its uses.

     " The Bishop of * * * , for example, has, am told,
acted very inconsistently ; that is, he has, in certain instances,
been most unreasonably severe with godly young men, and, in
others, has shown himself sufficiently friendly.
    " May God open their eyes, and incline their hearts !
    " As to binding up my Animadversions with The Sermons,

as the Bishop of Lincoln hints, I think your proposal the

better, viz., to give them to the possessors of the first volume
of the History; and they may, indeed, also be given to such
         the Sermons as appear to be reading persons.
     of
Ipurchasers         "
                          am,  dear   Sir,   yours  affectionately,

                                                                 " I. M."

     The following truly  affecting  letter  reveals most unreservedly
the views and state of    mind of    Dean    Milner^while engaged in

the composition of the Life of his brother.

     "To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.

                                          " Queen's College Lodge,

" My dear Friend,                            September 10, 1800.

     " I acknowledge I was in debt to you for a letter, and for
a very kind one too. The contents     of this last, also, furnish a
new proof of your kindness, and of    that tenderness with which

you   always treat  mentem rneam     exulceratam.   that  sore  to  heal.
                                     never expect
     " Indeed, my   dear friend, I
                                                                    of the
    " In regard     to my feelings    respecting the Life           by me
                    certainly no job
deceased, most                        was ever undertaken

Iwtwioirtinht"inasYgnoo,dmuwtruhucimvchehurlryte. lukvceitnTraydhnecmeyle,utsctaenhyrowrtthoeranuxtdelyecdruotaeeansdtd--nwvoaiettnhrdimlyssuoocshefmtasruapcmihtpeyisapremwritiennuldlr.btahaet
efmceaocsanettsltyie:dree;nrxoactatuinosdtnehaittamnisIed--dhtiidhygeehtnlgyoostotaidglklrnentoeahwateubrrelveeewrttyooasmwspaeee,lla,stkohtrhaftitarstoytf,oyudoaeunhldiacwavsoceouylthdoaindlepattehhvreee

    me no doubt on the business.
220 CHAP. MI. A.D. 1800. JETAT. 40.

    " If your papers had contained the plague I could not have
been more fearful of opening them ; nor did I once untie the
string or peep into them, till I was flogged by good Richardson

last  winter, to let him  have  the Life.
                          that  struck me,
      " The first thing                     after  I  had  read  yours,

was, that there were a number of entertaining things about

him and us, which took place when he was a boy, which were

only known to myself, or if you had heard of them, you had

probably never heard them very exactly, nor in detail; and so,

that there was nobody but myself that could execute that part

well.

    " Thus the idea with which I sat down to write was as

follows ; that the Life should be considered and owned to be
written by us three; viz,, you, Richardson, and myself --that

each of us should execute our respective parts exactly ad

arbitrium, that is, at the pleasure of the individual; and I con

ceived that a sort of whole would belong to what each should

do; and lastly, that the three wholes would constitute one

finished whole complete.

     " Such were my ideas at setting out, and if you have seen

the manuscript, you will have observed, that it ran all, for

many pages, upon that plan. I conceived that my part would

principally be the anecdotes and the niinutiee, and particularly

of the very early part of his life ; and then, that yours and

Richardson's would comprise the graver and more important
Iparts.
         was greatly pleased with this plan in my own mind ;

and permit me to say and assure you, that the idea of our (all

three) going down together, bound up, was to me a soothing

and most pleasant reflection.

    "Why, then, was not this plan adhered to5

   " The fact is this -- I began as I have said ; nay, I went on,

almost, if not entirely through, with this system still in view.
    " I wrote as rapidly as possible ; I could not stop to compress

or reflect --my heart would have broken if I had --or at least, I

should very soon have been incapacitated for going on -- so on

I went, slap dash, through all the parts of his life --putting

down all that 1 could recollect, or that struck me as particular ;

still, as you will observe, steering as clear as I could of the
                CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. jBTAT. 50.                                       221

history of his own internal change of mind in religious things ;

and still meaning, that all that, and all that was connected with

it,
               it

                           a
    should be left to you and to Richardson.

    "But  seems, that had been so particular, and had
                              I

                                   a
swelled the pages to such degree, that Richardson thought

there was not deal wanting otherwise,        it       was still my wish,
                              ;

that so much might be selected from your account, and so much
added from Mr. R.'s, as should complete the whole -- and, that

your part and his part should consist pretty much of such

things as was less able to speak to.

    " Such were my ideas and thought such
       I                                                                 system might
                          I;

                                I
                                       I

                                                                                    ;

                                                                                   a

                                                           I
be  m" aBduet,tomayppdeeaarr  tolerably consistent.
                              friend, felt that was,
                                                      in this business,                the

most incompetent judge in the world and, therefore, was,

and am most happy, that Richardson undertook to settle the

whole without calling upon me any more, for my opinion or

interference.

    " This was most exceedingly kind on his part --for indeed,
                                      I
                                                    I

                                                                             ;

                                                                    if

                                                                    I
cannot make you understand how much this matter tried my
spirits and shattered constitution. begged of Richardson to
cut and slash my pages, and to alter, and, in short, to do

exactly what he thought best with all the materials and you
had been at York, instead of him, of course should have

made precisely the same request to you.
    " All this
    it it,                    not to be considered as apology, no, nor any
                 is
part of -- you don't want any apology, well know but after
                                         I

                                                                     ;

the love and kindness you have shown, and the pains you have

taken, would have been brutal         not to have explained to you
the history of the thing.             that must be as pithy as
                                      E
     " have so little room left,          I
    I
               I
possible. 1st. hope your dear                goes on well. Does

God bless him, and preserve him in the same modest, diligent,

inquiring state of mind, that he appeared to be in, at Carlisle
                                                                                       ;I I ?
How beautiful are such dispositions in youth and how soon
                                      !

                                               a

                                                I
                                                                      !
are they, usually, apt to be lost 2ndly. do beg, that we
may contrive to meet somewhere -- you used to come often thisI
way -- beg we may meet either here, or in the north. 3rdly.
am sorry you should think am too severe with Dr. Haweis
                              I
222 C1IAI*. XII. A.I). WOO. ,«TAT. 51).

think, that when you have read his book, you will alter your
          IEvery body
opinion.               have asked, has thought that he

deserved the drubbing.               "Yours,  I. M."

     " N. B. The misrepresentations  of facts of which Dr. Haweis

has been guilty, merit all the blows he has received, completely.

On that head I am convinced, and have no remorse --but the

doubt with me has been, whether there be any part of him

sound, as a servant of our common Lord ? and here, the more

I have inquired, the worse I have liked him. See how scanda

lously he is misleading the public, in giving them a general
notion of evangelical preachers. Hear our friend, Mr. Richard

son, on this head, and his opinion of Haweis. His character,

of old, is very problematical."

     To another friend, Dean Milner, in reference to the same

subject, thus writes :

    " In regard to Dr. Haweis, I have briefly to observe, that

neither any contempt he could have expressed, nor any opinions
he could have advanced, would ever have induced me to take

the least notice of him, if he had not been guilty of the grossest
misrepresentation of matters of fact. No man reveres more

than I do, both liberty of thought and liberty of expression :

but when a person falsifies facts in the supporting of his
opinions, he ought, in my judgment, to be exposed as very
dangerous : and on this head, my good and worthy friend,

permit me to say, that I do not see how the judgments of well-

disposed persons can possibly be divided.

                 " I am, dear Sir, always yours, faithfully,
                                                    " Isaac Milner."

    On the 19th of September, Dr. Milner, to whom Mr. Wil-

berforce had written warmly concerning his own domestic hap

piness, thus replied to him :--" Perhaps these wonderful smiles

are for some future trial; continue to watch:" and this very
reply found Mr. Wilberforce, who was at Bognor with his family,
in the deepest distress on account of the dangerous illness of
his wife. On hearing of the affliction which had thus befallen
CHAP. XII. A.I). MOO. JETAT. r.O.                   223

his friend, Dr. Milner hastened to Bognor, and remained with
him till the danger was past.

     "What a blessing to have such friends!" is Mr. Wilber-

force's remark in his Diary, with reference to this occurrence*.
     About the beginning of October, Dr. Milner, ever ready to

regard any claim upon his attention, thus wrote to Mr. Wilber-
force: --

    "Yesterday I received a letter from Matthew Montague,

strongly recommending Mr. Perceval to be University Counsel
if Mr. Le Blanc be made a Judge, and urging also your favour

able opinion of him in the strongest terms.

   "I think the office is but five guineas per annum, or a

I Iretainer, and hope we shall have no business for him.
have answered that I think the Vice-Chancellor appoints or

nominates, and that the University usually acquiesces in his
Inomination.
              never remember a contest.
" If there should be a contest, my long residence has con

nected me directly, or indirectly, with so many lawyers, that it

would be highly improper in me to engage my little interest

before I know the candidates, particularly as two lawyers are of

our own college.

   " Iwill be a candidate also, doubt not, and I am sure
Ihe will think himself the fittest for the office. I confess
Ithink him exceedingly unfit, and wish, in order that all diffi

culties may be removed, that somebody may be fixed on

decidedly fit and experienced.

   " From all I have heard, however, I have reason to believe,

that Perceval is both brilliant and solid.

    "Christian says, 'Oh, no!' and calls him flippant, and will

not, in the conversations I have had with him, hear of any

body but himself for University Counsel.            I. M."
                            "Yours affectionately,

    Mr. Perceval was elected University Counsel in October,
1800, and held that office till the year 1807.

              * See Life of Wilberforce, vol. ii.
224 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. MTAT. 50.

     On the 5th of November, Dean Milner, always disposed to
sympathize with others in their affliction, thus wrote to an old
and valued friend, one of whose sons was dangerously ill: --

" My dear Friend,            " Queen's College Lodge,

                                  November 5, 1800.

" Your two last letters have made our hearts exceedingly

heavy, and the prospect is truly afflicting to poor Robert* in

his peculiar circumstances.  We see him constantly, and
endeavour to be a little support to his spirits; but I trust he

habitually looks to the right place, where alone sound support

is to be had. I was about writing to you a few lines the two

last evenings, but felt so sorrowful and so indisposed, and had

Iso little to say to the purpose, that omitted to do it.
    " I endeavour always to remember your afflicted son and all

your family in the warmest applications I can make to the
throne of grace. I would have written to John himself before
this time, and have often been tempted to do so, but that I

feared to flutter him too much, and perhaps injure his tottering

health. You may, I think, venture to tell him that I have the
Imost affectionate feelings towards him at all times, and that

now reflect, with most peculiar pleasure, on the bold and

decided part which God has enabled him to take in the minis

terial functions since he was in orders. He conducted himself

here, where the trial was difficult and formidable, with such a

mixture of warmth and prudence as he may now review with

solid comfort. Far be it from me to suggest the least false or

self-righteous source of comfort ; but this I say, in any dark
*

  Aa

           I

                                                                                        a

                                                                             a
                                                                                if,

                                                                                   it
                                                                                   if
moments, he should be tempted to doubt whether he loves

Christ or not, can have no doubt, nor ought he to have any,

but that Christ loves him; otherwise He would never have

made him so much his willing instrument and servant in the

ministry. Such things never come from mere human nature.

Let him, therefore, consider the whole of last year as was,

viz., gracious smile of his Redeemer, and smile too that may
be preparatory to his present suffering. You may add also,

younger son of the same friend, and Student of Queen's College.
                 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. jETAT. 50.                 225

it will not fatigue him, that I have mentioned repeatedly (since

he left us) with peculiar pleasure, the frequent conversations we
had together on St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans.

"May God support you, dear Sir, in this new affliction.

He has carried you through many already, and with very

evident profit.  " I remain your affectionate friend,
                                              "Isaac Milner."

    To the reader who, by the perusal of Dean Milner's con

fidential letters, has already been made acquainted with his
feelings during the preparation of the first volume of his
deceased brother's sermons, and the writing of the Life which
is prefixed to that volume, the following letter, written soon
after the publication of the book, will not be uninteresting.

"To the Rev. William Richardson.
                   " Queen's College Lodge,
" My dear Friend,
                                                         November 1th, 1800.
" Many thanks for your last letter. Your letters are always

comfortable to me, let you write about what you will.

    " The sermons please me, and (so far as 1 can judge) others

also, much beyond expectation. Dr. Jowett speaks in the highest

terms of their merit in regard to strength, conciseness, harmony

of numbers, arrangement, and sense, though he confesses that

there are a few inelegancies which may be easily mended in a

second edition. My health had hindered me from hearing my
brother preach often, for many years ; and I now perceive that

he had worked himself from a style, that in his youth was rather

flowery and diffuse, into one that is strong and nervous and

sufficiently polished, except in a few instances. Indeed, I am

convinced that you must have had a world of trouble to bring

them into the state in which they now are. I really see nothing

in them that can be called desultory in the least ; and they are

full of matter and wisdom. The 'Life' too, gives great satisfac

tion : but why would you leave out what was nothing but the

strictest truth*? However, I must say no more. God bless

* This refers  to some strong expressions of regard      towards  Mr. Richardson,
                                   used by Dean Milner.
                                                                         Q
226 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. JETAT. 50.

Iyou !   see, in every line you have written, your love of the

deceased and your sincere regard for his memory, and for his

credit, and your neglect of your own. Oh ! my friend ! how

this book has made me feel afresh ! yet with a degree --a con

siderable degree of satisfaction !

    " My brother used generally to put upon his sermons, the

the year and   month   and   place of preaching;  much,  that  I  hope
               every  relic  of his writing so
    " I value

the manuscripts of those printed have not been destroyed,
I Ifthough fear they may be.
                              not, pray preserve them care

fully, with all the others. You truly say, that to read those
                   being with him. It affects me
sermons  is  like   " Yours very affectionately,  beyond       measure.

                                                               I. M."

     Besides the composition of the Life of his brother, Dr.
Milner during this year, edited the second edition of the first

volume of the Ecclesiastical History, to which he prefixed a
treatise entitled Animadversions on Dr. Haweis' Impartial and

succinct History of the Church of Christ. With respect to Dean
Milner's Life of his brother, it is allowable here to quote some

remarks subsequently made by the present excellent Bishop

of Calcutta*: "His sentiments," writes the Bishop, "on the

great truths of the Christian religion, will be found fully stated
in the continuation of Joseph Milner's Church History; and,
perhaps, yet more distinctly, if possible, in the Life, prefixed to
the first volume of his brother's posthumous Sermons. He

has here given his clear and decided views of the leading
doctrines of the Church and of the Reformation, the history of
which he had so carefully studied."

     Of the second edition of the first volume of his brother's

Church History, the editor has himself spoken, in a letter already

given in this work t ; and his own preface to that edition, is in

exact accordance with the statements made in the letter.
     To the Animadversions on Dr. Haweis' History of the Church,

the reader will likewise have observed some allusions in Dean

Milner's letters to his excellent friend Mr. Richardson of
York.

               Dr. Wilson.    f See Chap. X.
          CHAP. XII. A.D.,il800. /ETAT. 50.                                         227

Of that very able performance, which is incorporated with

the Dean's preface to the second edition of the first volume

of Joseph Milner's Church History and of which the writer
                                                                                    from "
himself declares, that he was induced to undertake
is
            is

                          it
                                 is

                                               a
                                                                           a

                                                               it
                                                                           *. is

                                                                                          it,

                                                                                      it a
strong sense of the utility of the Ecclesiastical Establishment

of this country,"     needless to say more, than, that while

such as might be expected from man of Dr. Milner's

decided opinions and warm feelings, when employed in clearing

from gross misrepresentation, and exculpating from imputed

blame, the memory of beloved brother,                    likewise an

example of Christian moderation and forbearance

Dr. Haweis being dismissed, Dean Milner, in this preface,

which     an elaborate performance not repeated in the sub

sequent editions, "most gratefully acknowledges the liberal

patronage of the University of Cambridge," who had, at their

own expense, already printed three volumes of his brother's

Ecclesiastical History, and who had engaged to print the re

maining manuscript    papers relative to the same     subject.                      writes
                       and consideration in this      matter,"
    " Their kindness
Dr. Milner, " certainly makes an indelible impression on my

mind, and anything could increase my affectionate attach
          if
             it
ment to that learned body, after so long and active residence
                                                         a

among them, would be this honourable token of respect to

the memory of my deceased brother; who himself, many years

ago, as student in the same seminary, received distinguisheda

marks of approbation f."
    Dr. Milner adds, that " the more he has examined and

compared with each other, the original authorities, which are

frequently obscure and contradictory, the more scrupulously

faithful he has found" his brother, " in his statement of facts,

and the more judicious and discreet, in separating truth from

error, and in assigning the just degrees of probabilities." He

  * A rejoinder to Dr. Haweis' reply   notice of the reader under its proper

to this work, entitled Further Animad  date.
versions on Dr. Haweis' Misrepresenta
                                              This passage, extracted from the
tions, was published by Dr. Milner in  Preface to the second edition of the
the year 1802, and will deserve the    t

                                                              is
                                                                                 2
                                       first volume,  prefixed to the later

                                       editions of the Ecclesiastical History.

                                                      Q
228 CHAP. XII. A.D. 1800. jETAT. 50.

"ifobserves,  the alterations from the old edition should, in

some few instances, appear, on comparison, to be greater than
might, from this account, be expected, the reader is to under

stand, that these alterations are to be justified either from actual

remarks of the author in manuscript, or from the editor's

recollection of his conversations."

    He concludes thus : " The smaller alterations, however, --in

the use of particles, and of particular words, and in the con

struction of sentences, are very numerous, --and if the editor

has helped the perspicuity of the author, without diminishing

his force, he has gained his aim."
     These notices of Dr. Milner's Life of his brother, and of his

Animadversions on Dr. Haweis' History, with the extracts given
from the preface which contains those " Animadversions," will

serve, in conjunction with his own letters, to convince every
candid person, who takes into the account his various avoca

tions as Head of a College and Dean of a Cathedral, that his

time, at this period, must have been most fully occupied ; in
fact, when the afflictions both of mind and body under which he

at this time laboured, are considered, the true matter for wonder

is, rather, that he accomplished so much, than that he accom

plished no more.
                            229

CHAPTER XIII.

Commencement of Dr. Milner's acquaintance with Henry Martyn. -- Fourth
                                        PaosfsaCgheristi.n--hLius thpeubr.li--sheCdomLmeecntutarerys. o--n
Volume of the History of    the Church  Luther. -- Correspondence. -- Rev. W.
the Galatians.-- Professor  Smyth.--     in his last Illness. --New edition of
                                         Management of Queen's College. --
Dean Milner's alleged partiality to
Terrot. -- Letter to a young Friend
Joseph Milner's Sermons. -- Internal
Tutors. --Correspondence. --London Bridge. -- Professor Farish. -- Sunday
Travelling. --Dr. Haweis. -- Rev. T. Ludlam. --New edition of Ltfe qf
Joseph Milner. --Sir "William Wynne. -- Letters. -- Mrs. Stillingfleet.

A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.

As Professor of Mathematics, it fell of course to Dr. Milner's

lot to examine, in the January of each year, the candidates for
the Smith's Prize ; and it sometimes happened that this acci
dental personal intercourse with eminent individuals led to

intimate acquaintance and enduring friendship.
     The year 1 801 furnished an example of this kind. Henry

Martyn was the Senior Wrangler of that year, and was first
introduced to Dean Milner on occasion of the examination for

the prize above mentioned. The Dean was struck by the
remarkably amiable and somewhat pensive expression of his
countenance, and on entering into conversation with him, and
discovering that his native place was Truro, in Cornwall,
chanced to ask him whether he had ever known anything of a
Mr. Walker, a clergyman of that town. Mr. Martyn's answer
at once revealed to him the character of the Senior Wrangler
before him. With unusual animation, and a countenance alto
gether changed, as Dr. Milner used to say, when he afterwards
spoke of the occurrence, by its glowing and beaming expression
of grateful affection, he replied, that he had indeed known
Mr. Walker; and that his father and others of his relatives
had reason to bless God, that such was the case.

     There was little opportunity for further conversation at
that time ; but it is needless to say, that the Dean was much
interested by the deportment of the youth whom he was
examining. He made further inquiries concerning him, and
230 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. .ETAT. 51.

had afterwards frequent intercourse with him ; taking, as was
his custom with regard to those young men of whom he enter
tained a high opinion, many opportunities of showing him

kindness. When Mr. Martyn " took leave of him," on quitting
the university, "he was much affected, and said himself that
his heart was full*,'' an expression indicating, when used by
him, more than common affection. After Mr. Martyn's depar
ture for the scene of his labours in the East, Dean Milner

never ceased to feel a warm and peculiar interest in his
exertions, and their success, and heard of his early death with

very sincere sorrow.
     The principal occupation of Dr. Milner's leisure hours,

during this year, was the preparation for publication of the

fourth volume of the History of the Church of Christ, edited,
as the title-page bears, "on the plan, and in part from the

manuscripts" of his late brother. The early part of the year
was indeed, of necessity, and according to invariable usage,
occupied by the arrangement of college business, the settle
ment of accounts, &c. ; but the evenings, even of the busiest

days, were devoted to the purpose above specified.
     The contents of the fourth volume of the Church History

are, as Dr. Milner, in his Preface, observes, " of such a nature

as not to have found their way into our ordinary ecclesiastical
histories." The characters and motives of several individuals
who appeared upon the scene during the period of time com
prehended by this volume, and who by their lives and writings,
paved the way for the Reformation, had been, by previous
ecclesiastical historians, either neglected or misunderstood, and
consequently misrepresented. Wickliffe, John Huss, and Jerome
of Prague, were in reality Uttle known ; and above all, many
serious and generally well-informed persons were very imper
fectly acquainted with the religious part of the character of
Martin Luther.

    " Some of his natural qualities," says Dr. Milner, speaking
of Luther, " have been the subject of much observation : but

the ruling principles of the man, those principles which were

                           See Mart i d's Journals and Letters.
           CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.        231

eminently spiritual and Christian, are almost buried in

silence."

    To the elucidation, then, of the character of Luther, Dr.
Milner devoted his most strenuous efforts. "The German

theologian" had indeed, as he says, been considered and repre

sented by his brother, as " a distinguished subject of Almighty

grace ; which, by enlightening his understanding, changing his
affections, and animating his hopes, prepared him in a most

wonderful manner for the extraordinary part which he was
appointed to sustain "" but the Dean had access to materials

and to sources of knowledge which were unknown, or inaccess

ible, to the author of the early volumes of the Church History ;
and it is, therefore, not surprising that he has brought to light,

concerning this great Reformer, much interesting matter and

many authentic particulars with which his brother had no
means of becoming acquainted. He spared no cost in the

obtaining of such books as might assist him in his undertaking,

and often sent for them to German and other foreign libraries,

regardless alike of the expense or the delay thus incurred. In
addition to this, it may be observed, that Dr. Milner was a

cordial admirer of Luther, and that he, therefore, experienced a
positive pleasure in searching into every part of his history.
His own words, when speaking of his deceased brother's senti
ments with regard to Luther, may, with equal truth, be applied
to himself: -- " He loved him as a man of plain dealing and
unfeigned piety ; he admired him as a champion of truth ; he
revered him as an instrument of God, highly honoured, and

expressly chosen for the purpose of defending and propagating

the Christian faith ; and he contemplated his success with

delight and astonishment."                   that,  in this fourth
                                             with   the affairs of
    It will, therefore, be easily believed,
volume, " uncommon pains" are taken

Luther, especially during the first years of his wonderful

exertions ; the greatest pains, however, are bestowed upon the
elucidation of the sentiments of the great Saxon Reformer,
with regard to the fundamental articles of Christianity; and, as
embodying in the fullest manner the great Protestant doctrine
of justification by faith, considered by Luther, in common with
232 CHAP. Kill. A.D. 1801. *TAT. 51.

the whole body of the Reformers, as arliculus stands vel caden-

lis ecclesite, especial notice is taken of his Commentary on the

Epistle to the Galatians. One short passage referring to this

commentary lays open so explicitly Dr. Milner's own opinions

concerning the all-important doctrine of justification by faith,

that it may with propriety be here quoted.           the Galatians,"
     " Luther's Commentary on the Epistle to         a performance,

writes Dean Milner, " is in itself so excellent

was read with so great avidity immediately after its publication,

and was so instrumental in promoting the glorious cause of

Protestantism, that it seems to have a superior claim to the

attention of the historian. I have repeatedly read and medi
tated on this treatise, and, after the most mature reflection, I

am fully convinced, that, as it was one of the most powerful

means of reviving the light of Scripture in the sixteenth

century, so it will, in all ages, be capable of doing the same,

under the blessing of God, whenever a disposition shall appear

among men to regard the oracles of divine truth, and whenever
souls shall be distressed with a sense of indwelling sin ; for I

perfectly despair of its being relished at all by any but serious,

humble, and contrite spirits, such being, indeed, the only

persons in the world to whom the all-important article of

justification will appear worthy of all acceptation. The author

himself had ploughed deep into the human heart, and knew its

native depravity ; he had long laboured, to no purpose, to gain

peace of conscience by legal observances and moral works, and

had been relieved from the most pungent anxiety by a spiritual

discovery of the doctrine just mentioned. He was appointed
in the counsels of Providence --by no means exclusively of the

other Reformers, but in a manner more extraordinary and much

superior -- to teach mankind, after upwards of a thousand years'

obscurity, this great evangelical tenet, compared with which,

how little appear all other objects of controversy ! namely, that

man is not  justified by  the works  of  the   law,  but by the  faith  of
               **            **                this  admirable   piece  of
Christ*."                                " In

divinity, the author, by numberless arguments, and particularly

                          - Gal. ii., 16.
CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. *TAT 51.  233

by the marked opposition between law and faith*, law and
gracet, proves, that, in justification before God, all sorts of

human works are excluded, moral as well as ceremonial. He

restores likewise to the Christian world the true forensic sense

of the term justification, and rescues it from the erroneous
sense in which for many ages it had been misunderstood, as
though it meant infused habits of virtue, whence it had been
usual to confound justification with sancti neat ion. The incom

parable theologian before us settled the true bounds and limits
of the Law and the Gospel, and distinguished between accept
ance with God and personal holiness. The former, he shows, is

received as a free gift on Christ's account alone, by faith in the
heart of a humbled sinner, and implies complete pardon and
reconciliation with God ; the latter, which he insists on as

equally necessary for eternal happiness, he describes as con

joined, but not compounded, with the former; imperfect always
in this life, but sincerely pressed after and delighted in. By
this doctrine, rightly stated, with all its adjuncts and dependen
cies, a new light breaks in upon the mind, and Christianity
appears singularly distinct, not only from Popery, but also from
 all other religions. Neither the superstitions of the Papist, nor
 the sensibility of the humane, nor the splendid alms of the
 ostentatious, nor the most powerful efforts of unassisted nature,
 avail, in the smallest degree, to the purchase of pardon and
 ])eace. The glory of this purchase demonstrably belongs to
 Christ alone; and he, who in real humility approves of,
 acquiesces in, and rests on Christ alone, is the true Christian.
 Thus self-righteous persons are rebuked ; thus distressed con

 sciences are relieved ; and thus men are enabled to bring forth
 all the fruits of righteousness. An ill use, no doubt, has fre
 quently been made of the precious doctrine here stated, and
 St. Paul's writings abound with admirable cautions on this sub
 ject. The sixth chapter to the Romans is full to the point.
 But this very circumstance, namely, that the true Christian
 notion of justification is apparently liable to a charge of anti-
 nomianism, unquestionably demonstrates that Luther and the

* Gal. iii., 12.  t GaL v., 4.
234 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. .ffiTAT. 51.

other Reformers did not mistake that apostle's meaning;

because, on the supposition that St. Paul really meant to
ascribe the justification of a sinner before God, to human works,

in any sense of those terms, the very plausibility of the objec
tion loses all foundation. However, not to insist further on

this argument, let him that would be wise in the things of God,

study this great Christian article of the revealed method of

fallen man's acceptance with his Maker, and let him do this
with prayer for divine illumination. Let not any man suppose,

as ignorance is ever apt to do, that evangelical truth is so plain

and obvious, that every one may attain it without attention,
industry, or effort. Let him rather be told, that the way of

life is deeply mysterious, and has great difficulties belonging

it,to though, nevertheless, of infallible attainment to every
     it,
humble, seeking, persevering soul."

    It may be sufficient to add, further, that " to furnish solid

and luminous information concerning the interesting trans

actions of this memorable period," and at the same time to

"compress the narrative into moderate compass," was Dr.
                             it
Milhneerc'sertoabinjelyct;"                           task. In the execution of
                                               a
                                                      be employed in the service
                                                    it
                             and was no easy
                             believed himself to

of his Heavenly Master, and in the humble hope of His bless

ing and protection," he committed                       "to the judgment of

candid and impartial readers."                          of the life
                                                        here cited
    A passage bearing upon Dr. Milner's account

and character of Luther, may, with propriety, be

from a very interesting work lately published*.

    " must mention, before conclude," writes the accom
plished author of the work in question, " the two last volumes

of Dean Milner's Ecclesiastical History. The reason for which
it                           I
    is                             I

     I                                   I

                 is
necessary that should recommend these volumes to your

attention            this, that they contain, particularly in the life of

Luther, the best account know, of the more intellectual part

of the history of the Reformation. In other words, they con

tain the progress of the Reformation in Luther's own mind,
                                                        i.,
very curious subject.                                                       a

*         Lectures on Modern History, by Professor Smyth, vol. p. 26ft.
             CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. JETAT. 81.            235

" Such were the great talents and qualities of Luther, and

such the situation of Europe at this time, that the Reformation,

in fact, passed from the mind of the one into the mind of the

other.

   " I therefore consider these two volumes, particularly in the

lives of Wickliffe and Luther, as a most entertaining and

valuable accession to our general stock of information, and one

that may be considered as accessible to every student."

    " Dr. Milner," continues Professor Smyth, " appears to me

too determined a panegyrist of Luther. This, however, may be

forgiven him ; not to say that it becomes me to speak with
Idiffidence, when I speak to differ from one whom
Ihave been so able, and whom                       know to

                              conceive to have been so

diligent."

    Professor Smyth had before observed, that, with " the par

ticular system of doctrine upon which the Ecclesiastical History

is written, he, as a lecturer on history," had " nothing to do."

     The discerning reader will, doubtless, perceive that Dean

Milner's sincere belief in that " system," of which the doctrine

of justification by faith is the fundamental article, and Luther

the able and zealous expounder and advocate, is the source of
his admiration and reverence for the great Reformer.

     In addition to the continuation of the Ecclesiastical History,
of which further notice will be taken in a succeeding chapter,
Dr. Milner was, at this time, occupied in preparing for publi
cation a second edition of the first volume of his brother's

Sermons. Busy, however, as he was, he neither neglected to
correspond with his friends, nor did he decline any useful extra
work which circumstances might throw in his way.

     With reference to the Sermons, some extracts from a very
beautiful letter written to Dean Milner, by the late Rev. W.
Terrot, may here be introduced.

" Dear Sir,                   " 4, Brompton Grove,

                              Knights bridge, London.
I" Having found the sermons which
                                   mentioned to you

when I had the pleasure of seeing you in town, I send them to

you in great hopes that you will hereafter publish them.
236 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.

" I have copied also two other sermons which your late dear

brother sent me.

    " One, to teach us to go to Christ exactly as we are -- the
hardest lesson in the world. 1 John v. 1 1. ' This is the record

that God hath given unto us eternal life, and this life is in his

....Son.'                       Perfection, Gen. xvii., 1. 'And
    "The other, on Christian        Walk before me and be thou

when Abraham, &c.
perfect.'

    I" These sermons he selected for me when was setting out
in the ministry, to teach me the great doctrines on which I was
chiefly to insist, and which, by the blessing of the Lord, I have

found to be powerful to awaken and convert my fellow-sinners,

and which are all my hope and stay, in the present critical

state of my health. I hope it is not wrong to pray that a

great blessing may attend the writings of the man who was the

first instrument of turning me from ways that were evil indeed ;

but this idea is always in my mind, that his reward at the last

day will be in proportion to the quantity of good done, by what

he said, and by what he, being dead, yet speaketh.
" Pray accept the assurance of those sentiments of respect
and affection with which I have the honour to be,
                 " Dear Sir,
                        " Your
" To                  Milner."  most  obliged  and  fait"hfWul .seTrevarnrto, t.

      the  Rev.  Dr.

     Early in this year Dr. Milner, ever tender hearted, and
ready to sympathize with others in their affliction, wrote to the
son of one of his oldest friends, during his last illness, the
following truly Christian and very touching letter.

" Mv dear John,
    " It was a very great pleasure to me yesterday, to see,

through your brother Robert, your own handwriting ; and the
more so, as you permit me to write to you a few lines -- indeed,

with great good-nature, you invite me to write at length. I

must not, however, take an improper advantage of the con

cession; I must beware of fatiguing either your body or your
         CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. /ETAT. 51.  237

mind. It was the apprehension of doing mischief, either in

the way of fatigue or of agitation, that has kept me, hitherto,

from venturing to send you a letter; but I perceive, from all

accounts, that you enjoy so extraordinary and so blessed a

composure of spirits, that I trust no harm will arise from this

step.
I" Before 1 knew whether  durst write to you or not, I
Ithought I had a great deal to say.
                                     fancied that a sort of

storm was coming on, and I supposed that there was plenty of
room for counsel and precaution ; but, on the contrary, I now

find, that there is a most wonderful calm ; and I feel disposed

to say little beyond expressing my gratitude and admiration on

account of His power and goodness, who, when he pleases,

rebukes the winds and the sea.

    " It is not to be denied, my dear John, that the sweet calm

ness of mind which you experience has still something awful
in it, which ought to be observed on such an occasion. How
much is your present situation of bodily weakness to be envied,
when compared with that of the numerous strong, powerful,

rich, and wise, who have not learned the humbling doctrines

of the Gospel !

   "I repeat it--I have little to say to you; I am lost in

wonder; yet, in writing, I experience a very pure and a very
Ivivid satisfaction, and this because see nothing to suspect,

nothing to fear, nothing to complain of, nothing to be anxious
Iabout.  dare not add, ' nothing to wish otherwise,' because,
Iso far as my own feelings are concerned,
                                           almost every day
lament that I make so little progress in the trying Christian

doctrine of resignation. Human nature pleads powerfully; we

are not easily reconciled to loss of health, friends, and worldly

comforts; and the temptation is the more insidious because

there is a degree of regard to these things, which is lawful.

    " We persuade ourselves that we could give up all these

temporal blessings at another time, or, what we call the proper

time, more in the course of nature; but, in my judgment, I am

most perfectly convinced, that if the mind be not brought to

think God's time the proper time, it will give them up with

reluctance at any time.
CHAP XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.

    " Some years ago, when my brother was supposed to be in
great danger from a fever, I had hard conflicts in this matter,

and he wrote me a very wise and instructive letter on the

nature of Christian resignation *. I pray God to support me
when the trying moments come -- otherwise, I know Satan will

buffet me at his will.                     ·
" From these reflections you will collect, that I have no
pretensions to advise you, at present, in spiritual things. No--

I rather wish to learn the history of God's dealings with you.

It is true, you are but young; but no age, no experience, no

strength of abilities, can supply the lessons which God teaches

those who surrender themselves, not partially, but entirely, to

his instructions. You are too weak to acquaint me with those

lessons, therefore by no means attempt it: your friends will

inform me : I shall listen with delight, and, I hope, with profit.

    " As humility is the life and soul of the religion of Christ,

there is perhaps hardly anything which ought more carefully to

be avoided, in the intercourse between friends, than the saying

or doing of anything which has a tendency to puff up; we are

all of us, sufficiently disposed to this evil of ourselves: yet, in

the very important duty of self-examination, we are not to

affect to be blind to what God has done for us. It is to me,

and it ought to be to you, an unspeakable satisfaction, in your

present state to reflect, that it had pleased God to enable you

to take so decided and so active a part in teaching practical

religion, for above a twelvemonth before this illness took place.

It is true, that with God, all things are possible ; but I am
convinced, that the fact to which I refer, is a more strong and

more pleasing evidence than almost any other that can be
conceived, in a state of great weakness, when neither the

memory nor the understanding can exert itself with vigour.

    " I mention this to you now, (as I have, I believe, men

tioned it every day since you began to be unwell, sometimes
in the way of joy on your account, and at other times, in the

way of exhortation to our common friends) as a thing that

should call for your constant gratitude and thanksgiving. I

                        * See Chapter IX.
                CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.  239

believe you could say with truth, that you were glad to go into

his courts, &c.

    I" reflect, also, with a true pleasure, on the many conversa

tions which we had together (a litttle before you left Cam

bridge) on religious subjects, and particularly on the Epistle to

the Romans, that rich field both of doctrine and of practice,

and also on the nature of the evidences of the being in a
spiritual state. Keep in mind what you insisted on, viz., ' that

all things will work together for good, &c. &c.' It is a most

precious promise.

    I" But am breaking my resolution, both in being too long,

and in proceeding to instruction.

    "Tell your affectionate (I cannot call him afflicted) father,
that I receive all his letters with satisfaction and thankfulness,

Iand that wish him to continue to write as often as his great

labours will permit him. Oh! my dear John ! to be the son of

such a father is, of itself, a blessing that calls for continued

praise. He has had hard rubs in the course of God's provi

dence, and I doubt not but he has profited by them; but the

thing that always strikes me particularly is, how wonderfully
Almighty God has blessed him in his children. The explana
tion is, he is a praying father, and God is a hearer of prayer.

    " God bless you, my dear John, now and for evermore. I

am a poor, feeble creature, and could weep sadly over your

bodily afflictions, if I were to give way to my feelings. But I

can check myself, and, through God's mercy, can join all your

dear friends and relatives in encompassing you about with

songs of deliverance.    " I am very affectionately yours,
                                                "Isaac Milner."

    With the present Lord Archbishop of York, then Bishop of
Carlisle, Dean Milner communicated by letter frequently, both

upon religious subjects in general, and his brother's sermons

in particular.
 ********" I send you by this post,'; writes the Bishop, January
                                                                jn
29th, 1801, " the few further notes I have made on reading
your brother's sermons.
240 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 61.

essentials I perfectly agree with your brother's doctrine, but
some things, if taken as detached passages, I should explain

rather differently."
     The following letter treats of several interesting matters: --

       "To the Rev. William Richardson.

                                " Old Palace Yard, Westminster,
                                " W. Wilberforce's, Esq.
"My dear Friend,
                                March G, 1801.
" I find myself here ex officio. I am a member of the Board

of Longitude, and we meet three times a year at the Admiralty

to receive and judge of proposals, &c. And excessively enter

taining it is to see how many persons, of desperate fortunes,

imagine they merit rewards for their skill in finding out the
longitude at sea. One foolish fellow writes to me and says, ' As

you have the disposal of four, or five, or &c, thousands of

pounds for assisting persons in their schemes, I think it my
Iduty to ask for one thousand.
                                believe that will be enough to

enable me to complete my scheme.' Some of these applicants

are absolutely crack-brained, and others ignorant in the ex

treme. About a year ago, a fellow came from Norwich and

thought he had found out the longitude merely because he had

hung an immense weight of lead to a telescope, which he sup

Jposed would steady it at sea.
" Sir  and Lady Catherine                    were here last

night.

    " She is going on exceedingly well. * * * I cannot, in

the compass of a letter, make you master of  's character.

Such a strange jumble is the human heart, that I am not with

out hopes that he has, at times, very serious thoughts about

eternity, and very serious convictions of sin. Last summer he

told me, that one night, when he had remained restless and

feverish for many hours with severe thirst, his mind was

strongly impressed with the dreadful state of those in eternity,

who should in vain ask for ' a drop of water to cool their
tongues.' * * * *
                                is extremely friendly and open

to me, and has nothing about him like double dealing that ever

I perceived. But I am in great apprehension, that the more
CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. JETAT. 51.  241

thoroughly he becomes acquainted with Christian doctrines, the
more he will dislike those who speak out, unless it should please
God to alter his views.

    " You will, however, agree with me, that we are not to tem

porize in the least, beyond proper civility and respect. He is
quite orthodox in opinion, and he has permitted me to open

myself to him in the fullest and plainest manner that I could

Idevise. He assents to almost everything that is said; hardly

know anything of the doctrinal sort to which he does not

assent; and yet when we come to practical teaching of congre

gations, I immediately perceive that we are wide asunder. He
sees that I do not think him sound, and this keeps him in a

state of irritation in his own mind. He would fain quarrel with

nobody, and I do verily believe, that he has a sincere regard for

me.

     " There is a sixpenny thing just put into my hands, called
A Reply, SfC, from Dr. Haweis. On the whole it is sadly dis

ingenuous : but yet he confesses very honestly in one place,

and, in general, is by no means so boisterous as I had expected

him to be.

    I" really hope my animadversions may have done him some

good; he is most decidedly a peg lower, and it is very plain,

that he does not wish to provoke a rejoinder from me. I

believe it will hardly be necessary to take notice of him at all;
the utmost will be a sentence or two, when the Life of my
brother is re-published*.

    " N. B. I have been much pressed, and by most respectable

friends, and very particularly by the master of this house, to

add a number of instructive circumstances or anecdotes respect
ing the private and public conduct of my late brother, when I
publish a new edition of his life.

     " Mr. Wilberforce, I say, in particular, by letter mentioned
this to me, and said, that I might say many things of him (my

 brother) which were very well known to be true, and to which

the people of Hull would bear testimony, and which, lastly,

* A rejoinder, under the title of Further Animadversions, &c, was, however,
                 published in the year 1802. See note Chap. X1Y.

                                                                                                                  n
242 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. JETAT. 51.

would be of service to be known, and by no means appear

ostentatious.

   "Now I confess, that anything like this is totally against

my first judgment, and, however agreeable it might be to an
affectionate brother to see the amiable parts of the character of

his dear relative set forth in detail and handed down to pos

terity, I say I dislike the thing; and I am pretty sure that my
Ibrother himself would have hated it exceedingly.
                                                             have only

to say, that when such a man as Mr. Wilberforce points out the

propriety of such a step, and tells me, that he himself remem

bers several parts of his conduct which might with great pro

priety be recorded, I am staggered. Tell me honestly how it
Istrikes you, and in this would wish both you and myself to be

decided in our judgments, purely by the consideration of doing

some good, be it more or less.

   I" have found it absolutely impossible to attend much to

the fourth volume*, at the same time that these sermons are
Igoing forward; but the moment they are dispatched,
                                                             shall

atta"ckOiut ragfraiiennidf  all be well. *    *   *          behaved very much
                            William Hey     has  indeed

like a Christian during his late severe trials. I never in my

life read more affecting letters than from him.
" God bless you, my dear friend.
                                                             " Isaac Milner.

"N.B. While I have been scribbling this long letter, I

have had twenty people about me, disputing concerning Catholic

emancipation."

     Numerous and various as were the claims upon Dean
Milnei^s attention, during the periods of his brief visits at the
house of his friend Mr. Wilberforce, he was less constantly
occupied there, than in his own study at Cambridge or at

Carlisle ; and therefore generally seized the opportunities which

these periodical visits afforded him, to " clear off," as he used

to say, some of his unanswered letters.
    The following letter, written by Dean Milner from Cam-

                            * Of the History of the Church.
           CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. .ETAT. 51.        243

bridge, soon after his return from this visit to Palace Yard,
treats of an important subject.

           "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

"My dear Friend,         At Queen's,              " Queen's Lodge,

    " The case is this.                            March 24th, 1801.

                                      we happened unfortunately

to have several clever Fellows, some time ago, who should have

filled our offices of trust, as tutors, &c, but were disqualified

on account of their principles. I was positively determined to

have nothing to do with Jacobins or infidels, and custom has

placed in my power the appointment of the tutors, provided

they be Fellows of our own College. Our own being very

unfit, we went out of college sorely against the wish of several ;

however, by determining to make no jobs of such things, but

to take the very best men I could find, I carried the matter

through, in no less than three instances :-- Thomason, Barnes,

Sowerby. The consequence has been, that a belief has taken

place, that we should continue to go out of college for candi

dates for fellowships, after the cause had ceased.  I have

applications without end to this purpose ; and not only so, but

admonitions, sometimes anonymous. I inclose one that came

lately. You cannot think how plagued I have been, from a
variety of quarters, on this head, though I endeavour to make

it known everywhere, that we have now got two good tutors,

and have no reason for going out of college.

    "The Bishop of Lincoln called on me the other day with

Dr. Turner, and was inclined, I think, to have talked more

politics than usual, if there had not been a third person present.

    "N.B. It is very positively said here, that Pitt and the

Bishop of Lincoln had a bill ready, if not printed, to take

away all from the clergy, and to make them pensioners at the

Treasury.                             " Yours,

                                                    I. M."

     As affording evidence that, in the midst of his constant and
various avocations, Dean Milner was ever ready to give his
best attention to any extra labour which he was requested to

                                                                                                  R2
244 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. JETAT. 51.

undertake, it may be mentioned, that, in the spring of this

year, he addressed to the Government, at their request, a very

elaborate Memorial respecting the construction of the Bridge

across the Thames, then about to be built. His letters at this

period contain various allusions to this affair. To Mr. Wil-
berforce he thus wrote : " My Memorial will be at length ;
explaining my reasons, and entering fully into them. It would

be very easy to make a great parade, and to crowd a paper full

of algebra ; but I am determined not to mislead.

    I" have given a great deal of attention to the subject, and
Ihave consulted authors ; and am convinced, that a conference

of the practical engineers with the theorists, is the only way to
get on to any purpose." This letter concludes with a strong

recommendation of the late Professor Farish, as a person

                    mechanical  "knoawmle,dbgoenamifgidhet ,"bewrvieterys
                    question.
Iwhose

useful
 mathematical and
on the occasion in
the Dean, " most positive, that there is nobody here equal to

him, or to be compared; but delicacy will be required in

hinting this."

The second edition of the first volume of Joseph Milner's

Sermons, which the Dean on the 6th of March had announced

to Mr. Richardson, to be " half printed," and " much called

for," was now nearly completed ; not, however, without much

harassing labour. This appears from the following letter.

               "To William Wilberforce, Esq.
" My dear Sir,

    " I would have written to you last night, if it had not been

for T. Thompson, who dropped in upon us in the afternoon,

quite unexpectedly. By the by, I am very sorry to say, that

this is the second time he has come to us by travelling on
Sunday, and without any apparent good cause ; certainly none,

but a little worldly convenience ! I am truly sorry to see such
conduct : I gave him a hint of it pretty strong. He would not

have done so in your grand-father's time, when there was no

income tax ; and when, if there had been one, he would not

have been troubled with it.

    " I never, I think, worked so hard in my life as at present,
              CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. /ETAT. 51.                        245

to get my brother's sermons out before I go to Carlisle. I

have made, and am making, considerable additions to the Life ;

and the Sermons are printed so much closer, that, .without

Imaking any thicker book, shall be able to add four, or five,

or six fresh sermons.

    I" have many other things to do ; in particular, some
sermons to prepare for Carlisle. What can I do ? I don't
throw away a single hour when I can by possibility work ; in
Ifact, this excessive attention is quite too much for me ; hurt

myself by it.

   " God bless you. If you should not be well, you know I,

of course, throw all aside, and, in case of necessity, come up at

a moment's warning. So God bless you and preserve you.

   " N.B. I mean, if I live, so to order things in future, as

never again to be hurried in this manner by my own business.

But many are expecting these sermons ; and if they are not

done now, it will be autumn before they can come out.

"Once more remember me affectionately to B. and the

little ones.

                                      "Yours,                          I. M.
" P.S. How does the little, Utile baby ? Write me a single

line to set me easy about yourself."

     The actual completion of the second edition of the Sermons
is announced in a very characteristic letter, from which the
following extracts are taken.

              "To the Rev. William Richardson.

"My dear Friend,                      " Carlisle Deanery,

                                      June 30th, 1801.
" I have at last got the new edition of Sermons ready; and,

considering my infirmities, this has been no easy job. The Life

is doubled at least. By casting your eye over the old edition of

the Life, and comparing it with the new, you will instantly

perceive what is additional. From page 34 to page 52 of the

new edition is entirely new, and may, I hope, prove useful. I

I

                                   it
                                                                  it,
shall be very anxious to hear your judgment of and the more

so, as know you will give me very sincerely.
246 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.

" You will wonder beforehand how I could increase the

life so much, without spoiling it. But suspend your judgment
till you see it ; and then, I trust, you will not think, that, in

lengthening   it,     have at all broken through the principles upon

                iIt,
which the Life was originally written. There are many addi

tions to      of which you will take notice as you go along,

besides that above-mentioned.                                                 said about

    " have added sentence or two more to what
II I                               I
        ;
         I                              ;
                            a
                                a                is
                    I
Ludlam but understand that there                          a

                                                I
                                                      it I

                                                                             a
                                                most abusive attack

on me by T. Ludlam.                wish had known of                            few days

before had finished this volume because might have added

an advertisement, or page, in answer.                     but hope

    " have not seen the Spleen just published
                                         if

                                                            it ;

                                                               I
                                                                  I

                                                                                 it
will not require an answer. Tell me you think does.                             am

tired of controversy.                           thought                         right to

    " Haweis has behaved abominably, and
                                   ;

                                        I

                                             I
                                                         I it
take notice of his false quotations and have every reason to

be satisfied with the effect of my animadversions.                              hope,

indeed, they will serve to check the progress of that shocking
member of the Church. His reply was that of one who squeaks

miserably; but yet he said some things which, thought, called
                                                II
for a fresh lashing.    have, therefore, printed Further Animad
              aI
versions, (twenty-fourifpages, price 6d).       he write  again or not.
                        Haweis, whether
    " Here end with     II
                                             I
" The little strength and leisure have, wish to employ

upon the fourth volume of the Ecclesiastical History, which will

take up       deal of time, and require a deal of care. The

manuscript was in bad order, and the author not at hand to

explain.        ever answer Ludlam at all, should wish the
                                                a iIt I
    " Besides,

work to have more permanency than usually belongs to
                                                                                :
pamphlet. When you see his pamphlet, let me know what                                     a

you think.      dare say, when first see               shall be violently
              I

                               I
                                      I
inclined to respond; but have experienced, that feelings of

that sort go off, or lessen exceedingly, with little time and

before this time twelvemonth most persons, probably, will have

forgotten the dispute.  some copies of          the Life for myself,

     " have printed
I
                CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT.51.      247

(separate) ; but I think it better that the Life should not be

known to be separate, (at least just yet,) lest the sale of the

Sermons be injured by that circumstance coming to light.
Many persons may buy the Sermons for the sake of the Life;

and one would not check the sale of them, by circulating the

Life by itself. I Iought to say, that have added to the volume

of Sermons two long new ones, so that the book now contains

much more than before.

    " N.B. Let nothing that I have said about the Life hinder

you from following your own judgment in that affair. Give or

sell it to individuals as you like ; only, I think it should not be

sold publicly yet.  " I am, dear Sir,

                         " Yours affectionately,      I. M."

The attack upon Dean Milner, by Mr. T. Ludlam, men

tioned in the above letter, was the more painful to him, on

account of his past friendly intercourse with that gentleman ; it

is, therefore, peculiarly satisfactory to find him expressing, as

he does, his conviction of the transitory nature of the feelings

which that attack could not but excite in his mind.

     Ever active in his endeavours to serve his friends, Dr<
Milner, during this summer, took much pains to ascertain, for

the benefit of a deserving clergyman, a particular point of law

affecting the prospects of that clergyman in the Church.

Other matters also, which came under his cognizance in his

capacity of Dean of Carlisle, occupied much of his time.

Nothing can be more true than a declaration which he occa
                               himself,-- that he disliked to do
sionally  made     respecting
anything        halves."
          " by

A detail of the circumstances of this affair, even if it could

with propriety be given, would not be generally interesting.

Suffice it to say, that the Dean suffered not the matter to rest

till he had obtained, respecting
;
                          ;

                                                it,

                                                                                                               a
                                  the opinions of several

eminent civilians among whom may be mentioned one of his

own much-valued friends, the late Sir William Wynne.

This gentleman was, in 1803, elected Master of Trinity

Hall and in consequence of that event, spent, subsequently,
248 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 11101. /ETAT. 61.

certain portion of his time at Cambridge. Or. Milner esteemed
him as a man of sense and integrity; and by his death, in the
year 1815, was deprived of a friend, whose society might have
tended to cheer the closing years of his life.

     On the 2nd of October, Dr. Milner thus wrote to Mr. Wil-
berforce : --

"My dear Friend,

     " I have thought, and think every day, of the scenes of last
year at Bognor ; and particularly of the night when I awakened
you ; but I did not remember the day so exactly as you now

point it out.

    " I wish my heart were duly affected,--God's mercies are
very many and various. It is a sad thing to call on Him only

when we are afflicted. We need a sense of his goodness. See

my poor brother's private thoughts.        As to myself, I surely

    " I wrote you a few lines last night.

ought to consider that my grandfather died at sixty, my father

at fifty-seven, my brother Joseph at fifty-three ; that my eldest

and robust brother never reached fifty, and that I am in my

fifty-second year. Prepare ! prepare !

   " In the business about which I wrote to you, as in many

other concerns of the like nature, Pitt sure has been greatly to

blame. He has been a poor patron to this University, consi

dering his opportunities : I am quite convinced that old North
was infinitely better, -- more attentive and considerate, -- distinct

from all his blameable jobs.

    " I have, however, written to Lord Hardwicke, and also to

Mr. Yorke, who has returned me a very obliging answer."

     In the September of this year, Dr. Milner received at
Queen's Lodge a visit from his old and valued friend, the
Rev. James Still ingfleet. The following letter, which he wrote

to that gentleman soon after his departure from Cambridge,
must be interesting to every reader.
            CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. JETAT. 51.   240

            " To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.

" My dear Friend,  " Queen's College Lodge,

                   October 12, 1801.
" I take it very kind in you to have remembered us so

affectionately. May the God of all consolation requite you
many fold into your bosom. But I must call you to order on
one point. It is really stuff to talk of our kindnesses to you and
Iyours. I hope
                am, and shall ever be, disposed to do what
Iever I am able for you or yours, by way of showing that do not

entirely forget the real and essential kindnesses which you and

your excellent rib conferred upon my poor brother deceased ; I
verily believe his life was prolonged by those kindnesses: and I

am well convinced that he might have been continued to us

some time longer, if he could have been persuaded to lessen his

labours a little ; but his heart was too much in the work to

allow of relaxation ; and so far as he himself is concerned, it is

my great satisfaction, -- my dolonim dulce lenimen,--to think

that he is far better where he is, than dragging out a few painful

years with asthma, &c, &c.

    " In regard to kindnesses, I have really had no opportunity

of showing you more than bare civilities. Several times during

Iyour short stay with us, was going to attempt to make Mrs.

Still, understand how much and how deeply my mind was

impressed with a sense of her repeated motherly attentions to

Iher poor friend ; but it proved too much for me, -- could not

get on, but was always stopped, in limine. My poor heart is

irritable at best, and is so extremely sensible whenever that

string is touched, that 1 am soon overwhelmed. The world has

never looked as it used to do to me, since the event alluded to ;

and perhaps it is better for me that it has not ; for I have long

seen it very plain that mild methods will not do for me.

Nothing but the rod answers at all: and may God grant that 1

may kiss the rod cordially, and remember that He afflicteth not

willingly.

    " I am but poorly; and attacks, though gentle, are felt by an

old sufferer, -- much more than by a fresh hand, who has never

been in the wars ; and the effects also are much longer in

repairing.
250 CHAP. XIII. A.D. 1801. jETAT. 51.

    " God has been merciful to us in regard to my poor niece,

who gains ground, I think, every week." * * * " We all

of us talk of you every day, and wish you would make it conve

nient  to stay some  days with us on   your return.  over  about               your
                     and then we will  talk matters
    "  Come, I say,

summer journey, and contrive to make it very economical ; and

also settle several other affairs.
       "
          Yours  truly and affectionately,

              "  As also Mrs. S        's and  Edward's,

                                                           "I. M."

Mr. and Mrs. Stillingfleet were among the friends whom

Dean Milner most entirely loved and esteemed. Towards

Mrs. S      , in particular, his    chaelal rtheorve"rfmlowotehderlwy itkhindgnraetsistuedse",
on account  of what he used to

towards his deceased brother. She was, indeed, a woman well

deserving of the affection of her friends. Mr. Richardson, of

York, once said  of her, in conversation  " wqiuthitemiryrseeslifs,tibthlea.t  there
was about her "  a meekness of wisdom
                  251

                  CHAPTER XIV.

Confidential Correspondence. -- Chapter Business. -- Illness. -- Sermon at White
      hall. -- Rowland Hill. -- Fourth Volume of Ecclesiastical History.--Vigour
      and Perseverance of Dean Milner. -- Accident on Stainmore.--Prominent
      trait in Dean Milner's mind. -- Anecdotes.-- Rev. Mr. Church. --Letters. --
       Domestic Affairs. -- Discovery of the Invisible Girl.

                                 A.D. 1802. jETAT. 52.

It was intimated in the last chapter, that towards the close of

the year 1801, Dean Milner had exerted himself for the benefit
of a deserving clergyman, and in the arrangement of certain
other affairs respecting which, in his capacity of Dean of Car
lisle, he possessed considerable influence. Some of the con

sequences of his friendly efforts, which were, upon the whole,
successful, are mentioned in the following letter, -- a letter
which carries forward the Dean's personal history, and is
otherwise exceedingly interesting.

"To the Rev. James Stillingfleet.

"My dear Friend,                 " Queen's College Lodge,

                                     \Tth March, 1802.
" Dr. Kipling had told me before the receipt of your last

kind letter, that I was indebted to you on the score of epistolary

correspondence.                  of this sort, because they

    " I can bear animadversions

evidently originate in kindness.

    " I am never so much inclined to pour out my heart to
a friend as when I am in affliction. I know not whether you

have heard of poor * * * * 's deplorable situation. Only two
days ago, the first news arrived from Mr. Thompson, that ' he

lies most dangerously ill.' As far as I can collect, there is very

little chance for him indeed, for he appears to have been

declining for some months past.

    " Mr. Thompson says he expressed great fear of hell, and
prayed very earnestly. Bad as this situation is, you will, I am

sure, prefer it to that of the Duke of B. who died lately,
252 CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. /ETAT. 52.

with the fortitude of a heathen. I am quite shocked at that

relation.

    " Poor * * * * 's conduct has been, I understand, quite

unexceptionable for a good while ; and certainly his conscience

has been uneasy for a long time.

    " I wish you would drop a line to Mr. Dykes about him,

and to Mr. Scott, and say what you think proper about such a

case. Alas ! it will perhaps be too late !

   " What I particularly fear is, lest his wife, who is a Papist,

should bring about him some parson of her own persuasion,

who might pretend to absolve him, make him easy, and draw

his dependence from Jesus Christ to some-wretched formality.
*****,If you could see him yourself, it would be a great comfort.
" In regard to  II think about it just as did when
Iyou and I talked together.
                             am by no means clear that the

change would have been for my comfort on the whole, or even

much for my advantage. Any little advantage from increase of

income has no charms for me.

    " You would hear how I exerted myself in the winter by

going down to Carlisle, and managing about some small pieces

of preferment ; small, but of great consequence. My presence
was absolutely necessary to support F
                                       , and on some

other accounts. Also, I secured, through Dr. Coulthurst, the
living of Elland to a son of poor Miles Atkinson. I had been

very ill in October and November, so ill, that unless Mr.

Farish the surgeon, and my niece's husband, had gone with me

all the way, I should not have dared to venture to go ; and, as

I Iit was, doubted whether could reach Carlisle ; but God was

merciful. I had previously done my best by writing and
negociating. I verily believe I wrote above forty letters, to

the Bishop, the Prebendaries, and their different friends and

connections ; God be praised, everything succeeded.

    " For six weeks I had a most frightful intermission of the

pulse, at about every fourth beat. This complaint did not

permit me to sleep, and harassed me exceedingly. It left me

about a month ago.

    " I was appointed to preach, on Ash Wednesday, at White
hall ; and I was very anxious to discharge that duty, particularly
              CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. *!TAT. 52.                               253

Ias had been disappointed by ill-health at the time of my
Iformer turn at the same place, soon after was made Dean. I

went to London, but I was so poorly, that I was obliged to

have a substitute ready.

    " It pleased God, however, that about seven o'clock in the

morning of Ash Wednesday, I found myself wonderfully better.
I instantly sent my boy three miles to tell my deputy not to
Icome.
        preached on ' the one thing needful,' for an hour and

twenty minutes, to a crowded audience, and to the Bishop of

Oxford, who would think it queer work, I dare say. Many

more would have been present, but the report had got round,

that I should not be there. You would have been entertained

to see Rowland Hill at the Chapel, expressing his approbation

in too marked a manner.

   "I have worked exceedingly hard at the fourth volume*

since I saw you -- a great deal too hard for my health ; insomuch,
Ithat really find it absolutely necessary to relax, or I shall be

quite entirely knocked up. The manuscript was by far the

most unfinished of any ; and as the author is not present to

explain obscurities, I often spend many hours in consulting

authorities, and making out doubtful expressions; so that,

when you consider my infirmities, and the many and various

duties I have to discharge, respecting the education of youth, as

master of a College, my connections at and with Carlisle, and

my domestic affairs, you ought rather to be surprised, that

I have actually struck off two hundred pages. The finishing of

a book that contains so much matter, and so closely printed, is

a great work. I sometimes despair of living to finish it; which,
however, I have much at heart, if it be the Divine Will. As to

Igoing on with it-- dare not indulge the thought, though it

does come across me sometimes.

   "I thank you much for the valuable relief you have sent

me of my dear brother. I will try if I can make anything out

about the dream.

t  Viz., the         * Of the History of the Church  o"f  Christ.   he ever  wrote.''
              letter from Joseph Milner, docketed         the last

                  Chap. IX.
254 CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1808. JETKT. 52.

    "Your letter of January 8th gave me great pleasure. I

rejoice to see you so much in earnest about Divine things ; and

if I had time and strength, I would obey your directions about

writing in defence of the True Church, occasionally.

    " N.B. It is well for you, that I have no room to scold

you for staying so long in the south, and yet not giving us a
little more of your company.

    " I sincerely pray that Edward may continue to conduct

himself to your satisfaction. With grateful remembrances of
Mrs. S.'s kindness,

                   " I am yours, most affectionately,
                                                    "Isaac Milner."

    The writing of " above forty letters," and the winter journey,
mentioned in the foregoing communication to Mr. Stillingfleet,

afford together, an example of the persevering vigour which
Dr. Milner invariably exhibited in the performance of whatever

he undertook. The truth is, that whether in health or in sick

ness, he quite forgot himself, when there was a duty to be

performed, or a friend to be served.
     Respecting this journey to Carlisle, undertaken, as it was,

in the depth of winter, it may be mentioned, that an accident
occurred in the course of something similar to that which,
so many years before, had happened to Dr. Milner while
travelling abroad with Mr. Wilberforce. In crossing moun
tainous district between Yorkshire and Westmorland, called
           ;

                                         a

                                       it,

                                                                                        a
                                                                                                   a
Stainmore, the road being totally obliterated by snow, the
Dean's carriage was dragged from off the beaten track, and was
upon the very brink of steep and deep bank. Its descent
was arrested by the united strength of Dr. M ilner's fellow-
travellers he himself, being, of course, unable to render any

assistance.

     In his numerous subsequent transits over the same wild
tract of country, he seldom omitted to allude to the narrow

escape here recorded, as one of the providential occurrences of

his life.                                      manner," at

    The approbation expressed " in too marked

the Chapel of Whitehall, by the venerable Rowland Hill,
                    CHAP. XIV. AJ). 1802. jETAT. 52.     255

naturally recalls the recollection of another incident, related, I

think, in the life of that excellent man. Dean Milner having,
during one of his many visits to London, heard Rowland Hill

preach at his own crowded Chapel, went to him in the vestry

after the service was concluded,  oafndse, vceorarldiaplelyrsosnhsa,kin"gMrh.imHiblly,
the hand, said, in the hearing

Mr. Hill, it is this slap-dash style of preaching after all, that

does all the good."

One other passage in the above letter to Mr. Stillingfleet,

calls for a few remarks.
"Ifourth
           often,"   says   the Dean, speaking       in   reference to the
          volume    of the  Ecclesiastical History,      spend many hours
                                                     "

in consulting authorities, and in making out doubtful expres

sions."

    In elucidation of this declaration, I may venture to quote a

passage from a private letter to myself, written by one of the

JDean's intimate and valued friends.                     F,
    " One prominent trait," writes the Rev.
" in the great mind of Dr. Milner, was the steady perseverance

with which he pursued any object of inquiry which he had

once started ; he would not let it go till he had made himself

master of it. It was this valuable property which made his

extraordinary powers tell in every department of science; it

was this which, at least, contributed to place him at the head of

the mathematical tripos in the year of his graduating. And as

his honours and preferments were a due homage paid to his

attainments, it was this which seated him in the Lucasian chair,

and advanced him to the deanery of Carlisle.
     " But this property, which always stuck by him, showed

itself in cases wherein it proved sometimes inconvenient, some

times amusing.

    "The public greatly regretted the slowness with which he

proceeded in the continuation of his brother's History of the
Church of Christ ; but if any think that the delay arose from
indolence, they are in error. He was, indeed, often incapa

citated by pain and bodily infirmities, but not by want of

mental energy. The fact was, he would slur nothing over ; he

would not put down upon his paper what he had not established
25G CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1(102. JETAT. 52.

by proof ; and if the libraries of Cambridge would not afford

him satisfaction, he would send to Germany; and, therefore,
what he has done, he has done well. * * *

     " On one occasion, the same valuable quality was the cause

a temporary disappointment.  I was anxious to introduce to

the Dean the late Rev. Mr. Church, then going out as a chap

lain to Madras. Desirous that a young minister going out on
so important an errand should have the advice, instructions,

and encouragement, of so able a counsellor, I took Mr. Church

to the Deanery. The Dean was at home, and alone ; this was
what we wished. But, alas ! the Dean had seen, in Ainsworth's

Dictionary, as an authority for the use of a word, " Auct. Phil."
What Auct. Phil, meant, the Dean did not know, and, unfor
tunately, neither of his visitors could tell him. Mr. Church
was introduced, and very kindly received, but still Auct. Phil,

was on the Dean's mind, and he turned to volume after volume,

till, to the no small joy of his visitors, he found that it meant

Auctor Philomelm. He then entered into conversation with

Mr. Church, discussed with him the duties of the situation to

which he was going, and gave him very judicious advice.

    " This instance shows the mental property of which I have

been speaking. It is not such as to exhibit it in advantageous

operation, but, on that very account, it shows more clearly the

strength of the principle, because it shows it acting in opposi

it

            a
                                               a

                                                                                                         ;

                                                                        it,
tion to considerations which might have checked                                                             and no

doubt was an exception to the general rule in ninety-nine
cases out of hundred, such propensity would be attended

with the most beneficial results."

     Many other anecdotes might be related in evidence of the

existence and the strength of the " mental property" alluded to.
Of its solid use and value, no doubt can be entertained.

     As to the rest, Dr. Milner was himself as fully aware as
could be the most familiar of his acquaintance, that his habit

of always thoroughly investigating whatever subject, great or
small, presented itself to his attention, was sometimes incon

venient, and sometimes almost ludicrous: and, being at least as

good-humoured as he was industrious and persevering, he not
unfrequently joined in the friendly laugh raised against him

upon such occasions.
           CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. .ETAT. 52.                                  257

      With reference to the fourth volume of the History nf the

Church of Christ, a person, with whom Dean Milner had but

little intercourse, thus wrote to him on the 24th of May, 1802.

    " I hope it will have the effect desired ; if it has, it will
Igreatly rejoice my heart, for sure am, that much good may,
and, I trust, will, be derived by every reader. It is a work that

will  "edI iftyruasnt dtheanttetrhtaisin   all  serious and pious minds.
                                          may    find you restored to sound
                                                                             health,

and may the blessing of God in Christ Jesus attend your

labours."

      Such communications were always welcome and refreshing
to the mind of Dr. Milner, and the more so, when they came

from quarters whence he had no reason to expect them.

     The following extract from a letter written by Dr. Milner to
the late Rev. John Scott, of Hull, has reference to the person

whose illness is mentioned in the letter with which this chapter
opens :--

                                                    "April 20th, 1802.

     " The account you were so kind as to send me of poor * *
* *, lately deceased, was exceedingly acceptable. It was

certainly quite as satisfactory as could be expected in those

circumstances, and to me, much more satisfactory than if he

had gone out of the world without any fears, which, I dare say,

might easily have been brought about by management; such

management as, I doubt, some of the Methodists frequently

use in speaking peace, and even triumph, improperly, to certain
persons at the point of death. Instructions of that sort draw

the mind from its main concern, viz., deep humility and self-

abasement under conviction of sin. Indeed, I cannot but hope

the best of * * *.

    " 1. Because 1 reflect with great pleasure, that I may be

sure you would not overstate to me the good     side ;                       respect ;
                                                in every
    " 2. You gave him the right instructions

and,

    " 3. What did drop from him was perfectly right as far as it

Iwent ; and to all this I add, that think his perseverance in

hope, his placing that hope on the right foundation, his showing

no disposition to mitigate his faults, and his being enabled to

                                                
228 CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. JETAT. 52.

support a praying spirit throughout his illness, and to the last --

these things put together are surely inconsistent with the sup
position of God's having left him to despair and a reprobate
mind. Yet, after all, his case is undoubtedly a lesson, rather
than an example."

     The following letter contains, in addition to other interesting
matter, some satisfactory reasons for what might be considered
the slow progress of Dr. Milner in the continuation of the
History of the Church.

" My dear Friend,       "Deanery, 22nd July, 1802.

    "Your letter to me of June 3rd was comfortable to my

feelings in several ways, and I was thankful to you in my mind

on the receipt of it.

    " 1 have put off giving you an answer from time to time,

IIunder one pretence or another, till begin to suspect, that, if
wait till I can do and say as I wish, I shall never write at all.

Let it be noted then, that I seize the very first day on which

the franks of members of parliament begin to avail.
" Poor
                        always remembers you affectionately, and

with much gratitude. He takes it for granted that you will

have heard of his illness. He has not put pen to paper for

many months, and he is now so emaciated as to be quite a

shocking spectacle to those who knew him before.

    " The doctors agree that his case is not dangerous, but that
he may remain ill a long time, and perhaps never perfectly

recover.

   I" He is an old friend of mine, and have a great and very

sincere regard for him and his ; and I wish, if it might so please

God,   to be useful to  him in more ways than one.            his  mind
                         past, and long before this illness,
    "  For some years

Iwas, think, deeply impressed with the importance of eternal

things, and he had, at the same time, some strong convictions

Iof sin and of a sinful nature, and also, trust, some real desires

to be taught spiritual wisdom. His spirits are so weak, and he

is capable of so little attention, that there is but little oppor

tunity of judging whether the good work of the spirit of God

be going on in his soul. I hope and pray for the best.
CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. JETAT. 52.                            259

" I fear you think me long about Volume IV. of the

History. My answer is this, most conscientiously. I believe
I Ithat
have worked harder in that business than                    ought

to have done. Some weeks of the latter part of last year

were, as you know, closely and successfully employed about
Imatters here, and
                     took, in the winter, a troublesome

journey to Carlisle. Then came on our annual examination

in College, &c. &c.

    "Add to this the particular attentions which I think it

right to pay to such individual students as are going on well,

by way of encouraging them and inciting others. Then duty

called me to preach in our chapel more than once, and once at

Whitehall. Lastly, many hours are spent on the sofa in pain

of the head, &c.

   I" therefore ask you, whether you think I have been idle,

in having now actually printed off upwards of 250 pages, that

is, nearly the half of the fourth volume, and this from a manu

script very imperfect, and which often gives me a deal of

trouble in making out references and doubtful matters. I hope

to get to work again before long.

    "To the list of interruptions I might well have added

'family concerns.'"

This allusion to "family concerns" has reference to the

departure from Cambridge of Dr. Milner's niece, with her

husband and a part of her family, an event which was, indeed,

a severe trial to his social and affectionate disposition. She

took along with her but a part of her family, because he could

not prevail upon himself to relinquish the whole. The eldest

daughter he detained ; and very great was the bitterness of the

separation between the uncle and the niece, who was herself as

tender-hearted as the relative whom she quitted. From that

time forward, his affections certainly centred in the child thus

left to his care. He concludes his letter as follows :--

   " My niece being thus settled at Hull, it will, I know,

naturally occur to several of my friends, that this new arrange

ment will bring me more into the neighbourhood of that place,

and indeed, to Hull itself.                                 But
    " This may possibly, to a certain degree, be the case.

                                  82
260 CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. jETAT. 62.

I know my own feelings. Hull can never more be the place of

my residence, for any length of time.

    " As soon as ever the fourth volume is completed, I will

ask your advice, and take a comprehensive view of what is to
be done about his works.

                                           "Yours most affectionately,

                                               "Isaac Milner."

     It was during the year 1802, that " The Invisible Girl"

attracted, by her marvellous performances, crowds of wondering

visitors.

      The general nature of the mechanism by means of which

this ingenious deception was effected, is now sufficiently under
stood : but when the invention was new, it excited an almost

incredible degree of interest and astonishment. Princes, peers,

and bishops, swelled the admiring throng.
     In common with thousands of other persons, Dr. Milner

was attracted by the fame of this exhibition, --if exhibition it

may be called, -- visited the scene of wonder, and witnessed the
magical effects produced: but unlike the greater number of
those thousands, he could not rest till he had discovered the

secret. That he did discover the secret, has been mentioned, I

believe, in some periodical publications ; but beyond this fact,
nothing authentic has been hitherto made known.

     His own account of the matter, contained in the following
letter, exemplifying as it does the persevering character of his
mind, will not be deemed uninteresting.

"To John Pearson, Esq., Golden Square.

" My dear Sir,                             " Queen's College Lodge,
    " Since I parted with
                                                    December 18, 1802.
with the Invisible Girl.
                           you, I have had further intercourse
                           I went again with Mr. Wilberforce

and Mr. Bankes ; and we all came away in the same state of

Iignorance and admiration, with which you and left the room

in Leicester Fields.

    " Mr. William Farish, and Mr. Robert Jarratt, called upon

me in Palace Yard ; and as they had not seen the performance,
          CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. JETAT. 52.                        261

I described the wooden frame, the glass ball, the tin trumpets,
Iand, in short, every part of the apparatus, as accurately as
Ipossibly could. It is very remarkable, that while
                                                                  was

describing the four brass rods which go from the wooden

pillars of the frame respectively, and are in a horizontal

direction, all in one instant, it bounced into my mind, that

there must be an opening in the said brass rods just opposite

the centre of the mouths of the trumpets, and that the girl

spoke (from some adjoining room) through a pipe which termi
nated just opposite the said centres. The brass rods above-

mentioned appeared to me sufficiently thick to conceal a tube

of the necessary size; and as the wide circular ends of the

trumpets came so very near the supposed openings in the brass,

I saw clearly that all the phenomena might take place from

such an arrangement. Whether the trumpets communicated

with each other or not, was a point of little consequence. In

either case, the sound, or the breath, coming along the main

pipe, from the girl, through the wooden pillars, and to the

Iorifice which have supposed to be in the brass rod, would

rebound from the wide opening of the trumpet, and be suffi

ciently well heard, and in the same way the breath would blow

on the face by rebounding ; for the said wide opening would

collect all the sound, or wind, and would condense so as toaI
                                       I
prevent from being dispersed.     felt perfectly confident that
II                                               Ia

      it                                                     it,
this was the right explanation of the whole matter; and so

thought Mr. William Farish, and Mr. Jarratt.  funnel from
    " went to Broomfield that night: got

Mr. Wilberforce's kitchen, and metal pipe from his organ;

and soon convinced myself that my explanation was, in

substance, right. That the girl should see, had (you know)
appeared to me no difficulty: now as soon as blew into the

funnel, the wind rebounded upon my face directly, and made

the same sort of sound as the girl's blowing did.

    " In the next place, as there must be four openings, corre

spondent to the four wide mouths of the trumpets, saw that
          in
                      it
                                    it

                                   I
there was no reason to suppose that the sound came from one
more than from another, -- fact,
                                  comes from all four at

once and there being four places at which     bursts into the
;
 262 CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. *TAT. 52.

 room, there must be a sort of uncertainty in referring the sound
 to its proper place : and this agrees remarkably well with the
 phenomena. Further, if you put your head down, under the
 frame, the sound seems to come from above, because all the

 orifices are above; whereas, if you put your head to the

 trumpet's wide mouth, it rather appears to come from below ;
 so it ought to do, as we shall see presently.

      " In ruminating over this matter at Broomfield during the

Ievening, saw, that the more I considered the explanation I

 have given, the more perfectly it appeared to agree with all that
 1 had seen or heard. One single doubt only remained, viz., 'The

sound, when she blows, ought, perhaps,' said I, ' to make some

 noise, a whistling sort of noise, as it comes through a nick or
hole in the brass pipe.'

    " I mentioned this distinctly to Mr. Wilberforce, and said I
should like to go again, for that I was sure the whole thing
Imust be explicable only on the principle had suggested ; and

that, perhaps, the whistling noise was prevented by a bit of
ivory, or of some such substance, along which the air might
pass, just as it came into the room.

    " I recollected that there was a sort of net-work about two
Iinches broad, made of brass, very small brass; but could not

recollect upon what the whole brass frame rested, or whether
there were another brass rod parallel to the upper one through

which I have supposed the sound to come; neither could Mr.

Wilberforce assist my memory on that point. We had both
totally forgotten that there was a cross wooden bar, just at the
bottom of the said brass net-work, which bar reached from

pillar to pillar. Neither of us had the smallest recollection of

that wooden bar.

    " Mr. Farish and Mr. Jarratt went, the day following, with

the full impression that they should find an orifice at or about

the place that I had described : but the master of the show was

amazingly alive to their examinations, as soon as he saw to
what part they directed their attention, and would not let them
touch anything. However, they clearly saw four openings,
not in the brass indeed, but in the said wooden bar, and there
fore a little below the centre of the funnels, or trumpets. This
CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. jBTAT. 52.                     263

minute difference, however, does not affect my claim to the

discovery -- for the principle of the sound, or the breath,

striking the funnel, and of its rebounding, and, in short, doing

Ieverything as had said and predicted, turned out to be exactly

so. The opening being a little lower, is certainly more favour

able to the rebounding from the oblique surface of the trumpet's

mouth : and the wooden cross-bar is capacious enough to hold

a pipe of great diameter. Mr. Jarratt, I fancy, first perceived

the nick in the wood ; and, if they would but let one examine
thoroughly, I have no doubt but that it would be found that
Ithere is a sloping direction given to the opening.
                                                     went a

third time to see all with my own eyes. The men pretended

that I had not discovered the main secret : ' Then,' says I, ' I

may mention my opinion anywhere.' They entreated me not

to do so, in the strongest terms. Mr. Wilberforce put a piece

of paper to the opening, and the girl's breath blew it away.
I would have this to be communicated to no more persons than

already know it : but I thought it best to give you the exact

history of the business.

    " I could make, any day, an apparatus which would answer

all the purposes of that in Leicester Fields. The nick in the

wood, through which the sound comes into the trumpet, is in

the ornamental nick (or moulding) made in the mahogany bar,
and does not appear different from the other parts without a

close attention ; and can only be seen well on the side next the

window. There it appears more open for about an inch. On

the very first day I went, I remember I wondered why there

should be a brass frame to hinder one's mouth and face from

getting close to the trumpet. You can't think how surly the

fellows were at first, and how they said one must touch

nothing, and would not let us put anything against the orifice ;

but Mr. Wilberforce slyly put a piece of paper there, which, as
I said before, the girl's breath blew away.
" Yours,                                     I. Milnkr."

     Subsequent to his discovery of the main secret upon which
the clever deception in question depended, Dean Milner, who,
as the readers of his Life must be aware, was never satisfied
264 CHAP. XIV. A.D. 1802. JET AT. 52.

till he had probed an affair to the very bottom, frequently
visited the exhibition in Leicester Fields, almost en ami. The

exhibitor, sensible that there was, in fact, nothing further to
conceal, took delight in showing him all the minutiffi of the
contrivance ; being, in truth, well remunerated for his civility
by the multitude of visitors attracted by the Dean's frequent
presence and lively conversation. Dr. Milner had even, when
he chose, admittance behind the scenes ; and for this privilege,
he on one occasion paid at least its full price. He had entered
at an early hour, the apartment of the invisible agent in the
mysteries which he had succeeded in fathoming ; and such was
the influx of visitors throughout the morning, that to emerge
from his hiding-place, without betraying much of the secret,
was impossible. The manager implored him not to ruin his
fortunes; and the good-natured Dean, finding that he must
make up his mind to remain for some hours where he was,
and being quite at home with regard to the various signals
habitually transmitted from the outer to the inner room,
amused himself by relieving the invisible girl, who was, in fact,
a little decrepit old woman, from a part of her tedious duty.
While she cooked her dinner (a mess of soup, as he used to
relate), he observed for her the signals given, and in fact did
all but speak. Nothing of all this, however, did he mention,
except to those few persons to whom the secret was already
known, until the astonishment and admiration excited by the
invisible girl had passed away. Afterwards, indeed, he did
frequently relate the whole adventure with much glee.
                                                         265

                             CHAPTER XV.

Misunderstanding between the President and the Fellows of Queen's College. --
      Written Documents. --Industry of Dr. Milner. -- Election of Fellows by-
      Royal Dispensation. --Comparative advantages of Open or Close Colleges. --
       Domestic Affliction. -- Board of Longitude.-- Sentiments with respect to
      Public Affairs. -- Letter to the Rev. William Richardson. --Preaching at
      Carlisle. -- Fourth Volume of the Church History. -- Accuracy of the His
       tory. -- Dr. Milner's qualifications as an Ecclesiastical Historian. -- Habitual
      Study of Theological Subjects. -- Remarks upon Dr. Kipling's Work on
       the Articles of the Church of England. -- Hebrew Language. --State of the
       Country. -- Recollections of Dean Milner, by a Clergyman formerly of
       Queen's College. -- Christian Observer's Critique upon Milner's Church
      History.--Dr. Milner's Remarks on the Critique. -- His Opinion of the
        Christian Observer.

                                 A.D. 1803. jETAT. 53.

The beginning of the year 1803 was marked by certain differ
ences of opinion between Dr. Milner, in his capacity of Pre
sident, and the Tutors and other Fellows of Queen's College --
.differences which led to discussions of a character highly
distasteful to the frank and friendly spirit of the Master.

    It would be easy, were it necessary, to prove, by means of

documents now in existence, that throughout these occurrences
 Dr. Milner acted with a determined view to the real good of
the society which he governed, and with a steady firmness of
 purpose, tempered by the natural urbanity of his disposition.
 But in order to demonstrate this, it would be necessary not
 only to enter into some matters which are now no longer
 interesting, but also to incur the hazard at least, of wounding
 the feelings of some persons who still survive.

      One observation should, however, be made.

     It is notorious that there have been persons, very ill

 informed, no doubt, who have suspected that after his settle

 ment at Queen's Lodge, Dr. Milner contracted habits of self-
 indulgence ; in short, that he became indolent.

      The very full and carefully digested statements which he, on
 all important occasions, made in writing, with the arguments
pro and con, for the guidance of his own judgment respecting
266 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. jETAT. 53.

matters affecting the well-being of his college, statements which

were found among his papers after his death, and which of

course have been preserved, are sufficient, even if there were

not abundance of other evidence, to clear his memory from this

imputation.

     As examples of the nature of these written documents,

I may mention two manuscripts of considerable bulk, and

evidently put together with  great care and labour.  "   Misunder
     One of these embodies   a full account of the

standing," already alluded to as having taken place in the

beginning of the year 1803, "between the Master and his

Tutors," with the causes which led to that misunderstanding,

and the line of conduct which, after a full consideration of the

circumstances, the Master thought it his duty to pursue.

   "AThe other manuscript, also dated 1803, is entitled

Statement of Facts relative to the Election of Fellows by Dis

pensation."
     This latter subject was pressed upon Dr. Milner's consi

deration, in consequence of a general wish existing in the minds
of the majority of the governing part of the Society of Queen's,

a wish, be it observed, in which he was disposed cordially to

coincide, to elect to a Fellowship, by dispensation, his county

being full, a gentleman distinguished .both by character and

learning.

Both these manuscripts are drawn up with much ability,

and are highly interesting and characteristic.

Concerning the first, however, little can be said, without

betraying matters which, in his accustomed spirit of charity,
Dr. Milner had certainly determined to conceal. Suffice it

therefore to observe, that in this very able production he

investigates and lays open, with his usual perseverance and

penetration, the whole chain of causes which had produced the

unfriendly state of feeling actually existing in the breasts of

certain  individuals towards himself; having, at first,  as he  "saliykse,
with a   passing gleam of his constitutional gaiety,     felt

Ajax, at his wits' end ; not on account of his enemies, but on

account of the darkness which surrounded him."

Those who have read the foregoing portion of this very
CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. /ETAT. 53.  267

 imperfect memoir of Dr. Milner, must be aware that he was a
 man of an exquisitely susceptible and affectionate temperament;
 lest, however, any person should be inclined to imagine that

the " misunderstanding" alluded to, although irritating at the

time, was but, after all, the consequence of some such trifling
ebullitions of temper, as will sometimes take place even among
friends who in the main cordially esteem each other, it may be
advisable here to insert a short extract from the concluding
part of Dr. Milner's manuscript.

    " I have now," writes Dr. M., " but two very brief observa

tions to make. The first is but a repetition of a declaration

Iwhich made at the outset of this narrative; viz., that by far

the most agreeable event that could happen to me, would be to
see matters assume such an appearance of perfect amity and

cordial reconciliation, that I might cheerfully and at once

commit these papers to the flames.

     "The second observation is, that if all my endeavours to

restore harmony in this society, and general prosperity to the
college, should finally prove abortive, there will be one resource

Ileft to me, of which cannot be deprived ; viz., that of pub

lishing these papers, and of depositing among the college
archives this, or a more complete testimonial of the facts and

reasons which produced these differences among us. Such an
exact statement of the truth may prove serviceable to an
impartial posterity, and it will be an ample justification of my
present friends in the support which they may be pleased to

afford me. With respect to others, even they, when passion

and prejudice shall have subsided, and shall have given way to
cooler reflections, may discover, through the help of these

pages, by what steps they have been misled, and how erroneous

a judgment they have formed of the Master's conduct. In
such an event, some of them may, perhaps, at last experience

painful feelings, when they shall come to understand how much
their unjust treatment of the Master has been calculated to

destroy the comfort, and injure the reputation, of a man whom
they were bound to have regarded with sentiments of kindness

and gratitude.

    " The public reputation, indeed, of the Master has hitherto
268 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 83.

been assailed in vain, notwithstanding the industrious circula

tion of many plausible charges. It is his triumph to find, that

these are no sooner propagated than they are understood to be

notorious falsehoods, and that he is respected as much as ever

by those whose good opinion he values."
     The latter part of the extract above given, will be read with

satisfaction not only by the surviving personal friends of the
late Dr. Milner, but by all who revere his memory.

    The same " plausible charges" against him, which were put

into "industrious circulation" during his life, have been, in
some few instances, renewed since his death.

     The above extract certainly proves, that to his own con
science, Dr. Milner stood acquitted of these charges; and if his
innocence be not thereby absolutely demonstrated to the minds
of others, it is because his biographer declines to make public
facts and circumstances, which, in his tender regard for the
feelings even of persons who had shewn him but a scant mea
sure of kindness, he has gone to the grave without divulging.

    It would have been improper in a work purporting to be a

Life of Doctor Milner, to omit all mention of an affair which, at
the time of its occurrence, so deeply affected his comfort, and
of which he thought it expedient to leave, in writing, an

accurate account.

    It is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that time brought

the truth to light. The purity and integrity of Dr. Milner's
character became daily more and more apparent. He com
pletely outlived the prejudices which, in the minds of certain
members of his college, had once operated to his disadvantage,
and died in the possession of their hearty esteem and reverence.

     The other manuscript already mentioned in evidence of Dr.

Milner's laborious habits, is a very able and dispassionate
" Statement of Facts relative to the Election of Fellows by
Dispensation, and of the Arguments respecting the General
Question of Dispensations and Second Dispensations."

      Such a treatise, admirably as it may be drawn up, cannot be

supposed likely to excite much general interest. It contains,

however, one passage which immediately bears upon a question
which has lately been agitated with considerable earnestness;
             CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. .ETAT. 53.                                                                               269

and upon every such question, the deliberate opinion of such a

man as Dr. Milner, must be valuable.

    " In the discussion of the point before us," writes Dr. Mil
ner, " much depends on not mistaking the true nature of the

general question, and also of some other questions closely con

nected with it.

    " Thus, in considering the effects of second, and even of first

dispensations, it is scarcely possible not to make some com

parison in our minds betweeen the advantages of open colleges,

and such as are confined and restricted by their foundation.

Queen's College, for example, is, by statute, a confined or a close

aI

                                    it,

                                                      a
                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                        a
college; but we open in measure, by dispensations. Now

beg leave to remark, that the question before us not whether

close or an open college be better, that is, whether close or

an open college be more likely to promote the pious purposes

of the founders in assisting the poor, and in advancing religion

and learning, but whether, as we have now the college founded

already to our hands, and closed by statute, and as dispensa

tions, with all the circumstances of procuring them, &c. &c. are

the only means we have of opening them, we ought to open

them in this way as much as we can, or, on the contrary, to use
great reserve in the use of these means. Or the real question

may be put still more accurately thus. Always keeping in view

that we are, by statute, compelled to be close college, to what
        is
           it

                                                                       a
degree  advisable to open the fellowships, by dispensations,

subject to the inconveniences of petitions, &c. &c?
    " In the solution of this question, my own mind has been

much assisted by carefully contemplating and comparing the
advantages and disadvantages of close and open colleges in

general. And here, do not scruple to own, that experience,
        it

                     is

                    is I
                                        is
                                                   a
                                                               it
                                                                                                     aa
and not mere reasoning, has taught me to pronounce differently,

accordingly as the college small or large in its foundation.
If" the fellowships be numerous, by all means let the college
be open. It
             next to impossible, that county connexions

should much predominate in very large college. In small

college the reverse the truth. We find                                    so by experience,

though may be invidious to point out instances. In small
college, when several fellows are, at one time, of the same, or even
270    CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. jGTAT. 53.

of neighbouring counties, we find that they are apt to continue so

to the exclusion of other counties; and this, not, perhaps, from

any particular affection for a person's own county, but because

admissions of pupils are generally owing to the existing master

and fellows and their connexions, and these pupils are the

materials for making future fellows.

    " For these reasons I think, that the framers of the statutes

of Queen's College did wisely in endeavouring (as they express

themselves in the statute de Partialilate) to extirpate all partial
regards to counties and county connexions. Still," adds Dr.

Milner, I'" neither quarrel with any man who thinks otherwise,

nor ought 1 to be at all surprised at such a difference of opinion
Ion this point, because I once thought otherwise myself.
                                                            once

supposed (before I had seen so much of men's motives in the

election of fellows), that merit might be the sole or the prin

cipal reason which guided the elector's mind, but it is impos

sible that I should otfend any one by asserting a general truth

which nobody who knows anything of the history of colleges

will deny, viz., that the thing is by no means always so."

     The following extracts are taken from a letter written under

a great pressure of affliction :--

"My dear Friend,                             "           Lodge,

                                                Queen's

                                             January 31, 1803.
     " Is it true that you accuse me of not answering your letters ?
I have heard this of late from more quarters than one; but
Iindeed, my dear friend, am not aware, that according to the

rules of epistolary correspondence, I owe you a letter. On
       grounds I owe                     I
other  Nevertheless, I  you more   than      can ever  discharge.     we
                         may be   wrong   ;   and be   it as it may,
    "

will not be nice. Forgive me, and be assured, that you are

deeply and often in my mind, as one of the choice ones of the
                            I feel particularly bound.
earth, and as one to whom   good deal of distress. I    know          not

    " At present I am in a

whether you have heard of the imminent danger in which my

poor niece has lately been. * * * I consider her state as

very critical indeed. May God preserve her. The sight of the

little one, Mary, now with me, almost breaks my heart, and I
CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.                       271

am sure, that if her mother dies, I cannot live with her at

present.

    " In such a state of mind, we like to write to those who will

sympathize with us.  For which reason I write this night to you.
                     go on? I hope God is with him. Fare
    " How does

well, dear friend, and believe me,                    I. M."

                         "Yours very affectionately,

     Having gone up to London during the month of March in
this year, for the purpose of attending the meeting of the
Board of Longitude, Dean Milner was induced to remain some

what longer than usual in Palace Yard, on account of the illness
of his friend, Mr. Wilberforce, who was suffering under a recent

attack of a disease, at that time so prevalent, that it acquired the

name of " the Influenza." On this occasion he conversed much

both on religious topics and on the two great political subjects

which naturally occupied the mind of his host, --the abolition
of the Slave Trade, and the prospect of peace or war. With

reference to this latter subject, the Dean, whose sentiments in

the main agreed with those of his friend, thus wrote to him

"Itafter his return to Cambridge, and while the negotiations on
this great question were still in progress:           may be necessary

to make peace, in order that the nation may be convinced that

peace cannot be had. This is just what happened when you

brought on the negociations at Lisle by your motion in 1795.

The eyes of England were opened, and they bore the war

better afterwards."

The following letter to another friend deserves to be given

at somewhat greater length.

"To the Rev. William Richardson.

" My dear Friend,                    " Carlisle, July 5th, 1803.
I I" suppose if Ido not fire at you again shall never more

hear from you.

    " I have been ill ; but am much recovered ; blessed be God
for it. I have ventured to preach twice at Carlisle ; and these
Isermons are the very first attempts which have dared to make

of that sort, since my late attack.
272  CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.

    " Last Sunday morning, I was so ill with severe headache,
that I was obliged, at ten o'clock, to send for Mr. Sheepshanks,

to request him to do the duty for me at the Cathedral ; but it

pleased God, that before twelve o'clock, I was able to go and

mount the rostrum myself. Great crowds were waiting.

    "This is all I shall say of myself, at present; except, that I

fear my inward-man flourishes as little as my outward-man.

IOh ! I have much to say to you ! but, suppose, you would

only say the same things, which you have kindly said to me

before. Only do so, then, I say. I allude to the precions
truths which you inculcated and impressed upon me; and I
wish I could profit more by them. I, really, sometimes wonder
how I can have the face to preach to others, when I feel so
little myself. They are, however, -- these truths, I mean --
precious truths, still : and I don't suppose that you could say,

to me, anything better than what you have said. May a kind

and gracious God preserve me and guide my steps !

    " N.B. I send you, for yourself, a copy of Volume IV. Part 1,
of the Ecclesiastical History. I have no fear as to your liking
the book ; it is a most instructive part of the history. I wish I

may live to finish the other part.

                            I" am, yours affectionately,
                                                 "I. MilNEr."

     In elucidation of the last paragraph of the above letter, it
should be observed, that Dr. Milner was in the habit of desig
nating by the names of Parts 1 and 2 of Volume IV. that
portion of the Ecclesiastical History which is now published
under the titles of Volumes IV. and V.

     Before his departure from Carlisle, Dean Milner wrote
again to Mr. Richardson, as follows.

"My dear Friend,
    " As you have not yet seen the book, perhaps, you may alter

your way of thinking, in some respects,when you have seen and
read it. You may, perhaps, cease to think me over-scrupulous.

IAt least 1 now fancy, that see some misapprehension on your

part. * * *
        CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. .ETAT. 53.                          273

" Now when you reflect upon the time during which I have
been able to resume my work, in this matter, at all, --when you
consider, that I have, daily, many interruptions, from college
affairs, and, about Christmas, a great deal of actual business, --
that I am obliged to attend meetings at the Board of Longitude
Ithree times in the year, in London, --that, lately, on one of
these occasions,  was detained five weeks in London, by
Iillness ; you will not be apt to think, that can have been over
Inice about this said book ; particularly, when assure you, that
Iby far the greater part of it has been printed since saw you
Ilast -- in fact, since last September. If all this do not convince

you, fear the reading of it may. You will find me not ' over

nice.'
I"However, to be serious and sincere,
                                                      have no great
Iapprehensions on that head ; for though have no pretensions
to very minute accuracy, I trust the book will be found

sufficiently accurate in the main.

    " To strengthen all this, let me tell you, that the manuscript

for this volume, left by my brother, is by far the most incorrect

of all which he wrote. No wonder. It was never looked over
by him--it was written in his weak state-- and is imperfect in

every way ; though it contains very fine things.

   I" Then the subject grows more and more important ; and
Ihave access to books which he had not : and have thought it

right to new-model a great deal, and to add a great deal, also.

    " Further, it is impossible for me not to feel myself account

Iable for the work, in a way that never felt before, in correct

ing any of the former volumes.
   I" To have published it as it stood in the manuscript, assure
Iyou, would not have done. As it is, trust, that the work will
Ibe found highly instructive and important.
                                                      have brought to

light a vast deal that never before appeared in English.

    " It is my sincere wish, that my life may be prolonged to
finish this volume*, if it be, indeed, the will of God. I hope I
am not ill-employed ; and I trust, that when you have con-

* Viz., the Second Part of Vol. IV., subsequently     published  by the Dean
                                           as VoL V.
                                                                  T
274 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. >ETAT. 53.

sidered these things, and read the book, you will cease to think
me over scrupulous."

The foregoing letter, exhibiting, as it does, Dean Milner's

private feelings respecting the responsibility which attached to

himself with regard to the volume in question, has high claims

to the attention of the reader; and it is more especially

interesting, as bearing, in some measure, upon the question of
the accuracy of this part of the history ; a question which, in

some quarters, has been acrimoniously debated.

Nothing can be more candid than the whole of Dr. Milner's

statement. The manuscript for the fourth volume, as left by

his brother,   never having been revised,                                   was, he admits, very

" incorrect"  and " imperfect ;" although                                   containing " very fine

things."

    " Then the subject" was becoming " more and more impor

tant;" and he, having, "access to books which" the original

author " had not," had " thought it right to new-model a great

deal, and to add a great deal, also."                                       in book thus new-

    It can be no matter of wonder
it,
       of
                                             is

                                                  if,

                                                                          a

                                                                              of is
modelled and enlarged, some trifling inconsistencies, or some

slight mistakes, in references, or dates, may be detected. It

sufficient, that, after the various attacks which have been made

upon on the score of inaccuracy, that part of the History
the Church Christ of which Dr. Milner was either entirely, or

in a great measure, the author,   "noswuffgiceiennetrlaylly                  allowed  to  be,
with regard to all such matters,                                            accurate  in  the
main."

As to the correctness of the views entertained and com

municated by Dean Milner, of the characters and tenets of

Luther and other illustrious men, who were instruments in the

hand of the Almighty, for the bringing about of the great work

of the Reformation, this  not the place, nor the occasion, for
I
                                        is
                                                                         a
the discussion of so comprehensive subject.

may, however, be permitted to observe, that the readers

of even this very imperfect and inadequate memoir of the life

and character of Dr. Milner, can scarcely fail to be convinced,

that he was deficient in neither of two qualifications, essential to
           CUAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.

an ecclesiastical historian -- industry and piety. He was, more

over, very deeply read in religious subjects, and of the force and

vigour of his reasoning powers, it is needless to speak. The

deliberate statements of a writer, thus qualified, may surely claim

attention and some deference from the generality of readers.

Dean Milner's season of residence at Carlisle, notwithstand

ing the preparation necessary for his frequent addresses from

the pulpit, and other avocations incident to his station, was

comparatively, and upon the whole, a season of leisure ; and

when at leisure, his mind habitually turned to the consideration

of theological subjects. It was his custom to think with a pen

in his hand ; and many valuable hints may, consequently, be

found interspersed among his remaining manuscripts. Some

times, indeed, his thoughts are expressed too briefly to be

intelligible to general readers, and occasionally, when the words

used are sufficiently explicit, the particular point or passage of

a book to which they refer, is left doubtful. More frequently,

however, the subject upon which his mind is employed is

indicated with sufficient clearness, either by express words or

by the obvious tendency and bearing of his observations. Thus

the following detached remarks, written during the summer of

1803, manifestly refer to Dr. Kipling's then recent publication

upon the Articles of the Church of England.
     " The meaning of the Church better ascertained by the

Articles than by the Liturgy."

"Can words be contrived clearer than the Seventeenth

Article ?   The last part  is in Calvin's Institutes."                             Faculty
           Calvin about    the will not being destroyed.
    " See

of the will not destroyed."  be insisted  upon  as held                            when
    " Opinions should not

disavowed."                                                                        Not

    " Kipling says, Calvin denies men to be accountable.

true. He always represents men as accountable."
" Dr. K
                             iIs,

                                                                                2
           's opinion           suppose, opposed to Calvin's.

He therefore thinks, that we have some power of thinking good

thoughts, &c. But our Liturgy says no."

The following observations, suggested by the consideration

of some passages in the Articles, are expressed at somewhat

                                                 T
276 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JET AT. 53.

greater length ; and, like every thing else written or spoken by-
Dean Milner, upon subjects which he had studied, they bear the

impress of a great mind.

    After quoting the IXth, Xth, and XHIth Articles, --

"Original sin is the corruption of the nature of every man,

whereby man is very far gone (quam longissime) from original

orifghAtdeoaumsniessss,uch&,c.&&c.c.&;"c.;""Th"eWocorknsditdioonneofbemfoarne  after the fall
                                                                               the grace of
Christ and the inspiration of his Spirit, &c. &c." -- the Dean
thus writes :--

    " The doctrine of original sin is a most important article in

the Christian scheme. All the other doctrines of Christianity

are closely connected with it ; and, in order to preserve con

sistency, must be modified according to the view that is taken

of original sin. If our ideas of original sin be not previously

settled with some degree of accuracy, we are in perpetual

danger of falling into contradictions in the treatment of all the

important doctrines of Revelation.

    " It would be easy to furnish numerous examples of this.

Not that it is always necessary for a writer to give a formal

statement of his notions of original sin for the purpose of

making his meaning understood upon other religious topics;

but this I take to be constantly true, that a perspicuous and

consistent writer, whatever important subject in religion he may

handle, cannot possibly conceal his ideas on original sin ; the

links of the chain are in a decided and even necessary connexion.

    " How extremely important, then, must it be to form clear,

decisive, and intelligible views of this doctrine; a doctrine

which, like a tree, ever bears its own peculiar branches; a

doctrine, too, where the branches infallibly indicate the nature

of the tree on which they grow !

    " In books of religious controversy, there are endless varie

ties   of the opinions which have been    held on   this                       subject.
                                           express  the                        sentiments
      " The three extracts above quoted,                                                   of

the Church of England ; and one would think, that whoever

carefully reads them, without prejudice, can scarcely give two

senses to the words, especially as they are descriptive of facts."

    " N.B. --In order to form a right judgment of original sin,
              CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. jETAT. 53.   277

the real tendency of sin is to be considered ; e. g., What would

sin produce, if grace did not interpose ? All that grace does--
that is, all that is to be ascribed to grace-- proves sin the

greater."

    " It is not fair to define a Calvinist, ' one who holds every
thing that Calvin held.' It misleads, to represent men as

holding the whole of Calvinism, who hold only a part. The
same may be said respecting the followers of Arminius. -- See

Owen's Display of Arminianism, ch. viii.; and Fuller's Gospel

of C/rrist."
"The danger of Antinomianism, though dreadful, is not
Iextensive.
              have rarely, if ever, met with a single instance of
Ithe kind ; whereas meet with thousands of Pharisees. The

reason is obvious. The Antinomian idea of living in sin, and

yet being saved, is so absurd, and so contrary to common sense,

as well as to the stream of Scripture, that it never can be very

extensive in its ravages; whereas Pharisaism is congenial to

man, and is taking fast hold and striking root everywhere.

Nay, it is natural to man, whereas salvation by grace is not

natural."

     In the following admirable letter, which may now be made
public without impropriety, Dean Milner's sentiments concern
ing Dr. Kipling's performance are stated without disguise or
reservation :--

" Dear        ,
" I have lately been informed
                               that you are meditating  a

reply to Dr. Kipling's publication on the Articles of the Church

of England. The intelligence gives me much satisfaction, yet

not without some doubt as to the complete discretion of
Iwriting any public answer to such a pamphlet.
                                                am so for

tunate as to know, that you have given much attention, for

many years past, to the controverted points in question, and,

therefore, I may well take it for granted, that whatever you
write upon the subject will be to the purpose ; yet still I am

far from feeling assured that this is a favourable opportunity for

you to give your sentiments to the public. If, indeed, you

were to enter fully into the difficult subjects of Calvinism and
278 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. jETAT. 53.

Arminianism, and furnish the public with those thoughts which
you have long digested, the world would have to thank Dr.

Kipling for having been the occasion of bringing to light the

fruit of your labours ; but if you intend to confine your plan to

observations on his publication, several unpleasant circum

stances appear to me to be in your way.

    " 1. Dr. Kipling's side of the question is by far the most

popular in our country. I suppose the proportion of those

who embrace that side, to those who are of a contrary opinion,

I Iis very great. When say this, would by no means be

understood to speak of such as have studied the question, and

made up their minds after much reading and reflection. If we
confine ourselves to persons of this class, I believe the reverse

to be, and to have always been, the truth in all ages and coun

tries. But I speak of Englishmen in general of the present

age. The times, you will agree with me, are very much in

favour of Arminian sentiments.

    " 2. And this is remarkably the case with the clergy of our

Establishment. Formerly the majority of them were calvinis-
Itical; but at present
                        believe very few of them are such,

except those who (you know) are improperly denominated

Methodists.

    "3. The thing I speak of is not a mere prevalence of

sentiment. The tide sets very strongly against Calvinism,

considered as a principle of religion and morality. Calvinistic

tenets are not only thought absurd, weak, and enthusiastic, but

they are also deemed odious, and even blasphemous. With

many persons a man is thought a worse man, for being a

Calvinist.

    " 4. All this, it is true, is merely the effect of custom or

education ; nevertheless, a writer on the Calvinistic side will
Ihave these prejudices to contend with.
                                         own they are not
Iworth mentioning as objections, provided you mean, as have

said, to enter thoroughly into the question : for in that case you

will write to the few, and they will listen.

    " 5. I have not often seen a pamphlet more calculated, in

my judgment, to suit the many of the present day, than this of

Dr. Kipling. Though it is impossible that such a work should
. CHAP. XV. A D. 1803. *1TAT. 53.       279

convert a single Calvinist from his opinion it will tend very
much to strengthen the sentiments of those who are already
disposed against Calvinism merely from prejudice, without

understanding the nature of the question.

    " 6. These difficulties you will certainly have to encounter:
but still, if you can put students of divinity upon their guard

Iagainst the partial representations of this author, acknowledge

that you will do a great service to the Church and to the

public.

    " You see I write without any sort of ceremony; and as I
am just fresh from reading Dr. K        's work, I will briefly put

down a few remarks in the very order in which they have

occurred to me.

    " 1 . The author, in his very first page, sets out with a

position that surprised me exceedingly.

    " After acknowledging that it had been a question for more

than a century, whether some of the Articles of the Church of
England should be interpreted in a Calvinistic sense, he tells

us, that this controversy was at length reduced to a single point,
and was therefore in a fair way of being soon brought to a

conclusion.

   I" have been so often deceived by the magnificent promises
Iand professions of authors, that, confess, my expectations

were not much raised by this information. My astonishment

was rather excited, on observing a disposition to be so peremp
tory on a question so difficult and intricate, and in a case where

the writer, from his age and profession, must be supposed
conversant in inquiries of this nature; and, from his situation in

the University, accustomed to investigate theological difficulties,

and to place them in different lights.
I" 2. But however improbable
                                        might think the author's

success to be, in the point which he attempted, it became me

to listen attentively to so respectable a character.

     " But, alas ! he utterly fails us, in limine. His reasoning is
this : He produces two authors who, he says, have at least
tacitly granted, that if the Liturgy of our Church be not in

correspondence with Calvinism, neither are its Articles. By so

doing, he adds, they have tacitly consented to rest the termina
280  CIIAI". XV. A.D. 1803. jETAT. 53. .

tion of the question in dispute, entirely upon the event of this
one inquiry, ' Is our established Liturgy in correspondence with

Calvinism ?' And then the Doctor joins issue with these Calvi-

nistic writers, and says he shall confine himself to this one
inquiry, ' Is our Established Church in perfect unison and

correspondence with Calvin's doctrine of predestination ?'

    " 3. My observations on such a procedure are these.

     "Supposing this to be ever so fair a statement of the

question between Dr. K. and the two authors whom he
opposes, I ask, who has consented to rest the determination of

the points in dispute in the way that Dr. K. supposes, except

Dr. K. himself? Possibly the Doctor's two opponents may

consent also. And he tells us, that they have actually made a

tacit grant, which implies such a consent. It would be pre

sumption in me to pretend to determine what either of those

writers would consent to in a contest of this nature, and where

the issue is joined with so confident a spirit by their adver

sary ; but I think it very easy to collect, from what they have
already written, that in whatever manner Dr. K. may think

proper to join issue with them, or in whatever manner he

may choose to confine himself, they would hardly submit to

Ibe confined at his will or pleasure : or, in one word, think

that they would consider themselves justly entitled to use not
only that one species of argument pointed out by Dr. K.,

but any kind of argument which they thought fairly bore upon

the question, and was likely to produce conviction in a sober

and cultivated understanding. The grand principle upon which

they would proceed would, I think, be this: Whenever a

doctrine was perfectly clear and explicit, whether that doctrine

were found among the Articles, or the Homilies, or in the

                                  it
                                     is it,

                                                               it
Liturgy, they would rest satisfied with and would apply to

the explanation, or clearing up, of any doubtful passages,

whether such doubtful passages were found in the Articles, the

Homilies, or the Liturgy. And as  undoubtedly in the

Articles that we have reason to expect doctrinal precision, they

would chiefly look there for accurate statements of controverted

points. In the Homilies they would expect to find more
diffuse explanations and illustrations of what was expressed
              CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. -STAT. 53.  281

concisely and abstractedly in the Articles ; because, hi fact, the

Articles themselves do make that use of the Homilies by

reference ; but least of all would they look for nice distinctions

and definitions of doctrinal matters in the Liturgy, the use of

which belongs, in a great measure, to the affections of the

heart, rather than to the speculations of the head; and the

language of which is wisely made popular, and adapted to the

understandings of persons of the lowest attainments.

   " You are not to infer from anything which I now say, that
I think the Liturgy of no use in the controversy before us.
The reverse is my decided opinion : only I think it ought not

by any means to stand foremost in an inquiry of this kind.

The use of the Liturgy in this inquiry is subsidiary, and in that
Ilight very powerful.
                         even admit that some of the most

conclusive arguments, on the most important points, may be
              -- arguments by no means less conclusive,
drawn from  if if
               if

                    it,

                    if
                             If

                                                       it,
                                                                  is

                                                                       I
because they depend upon statements which seem to have

been formed in an undesigned manner. In one word,

should say, let the Articles speak for themselves on all

occasions,    possible.  there be some obscurity on any

point, or     any point require particular and diffuse illus

tration, consult the Homilies, where that point, or some

other point closely connected with     expressly treated.

And, lastly,  doubt still remain concerning the meaning of

any article of faith, listen attentively to the prayers of the

Church. Thus, any man doubt whether, according to the

principles of the Church of England, Jesus Christ, the Second

Person in the Trinity, be God, let him consider the leading

clauses of the Litany.                 indulged myself in

    " But should be very cautious how
I
  I

                                                 a

                                     I
                                                    I

                                                                                                           ;
inverting this method of studying the doctrines of our Church

that is, would not recommend person to begin an inquiry of

that sort by studying the Liturgy. Least of all would advise
him to note down certain parts of the Liturgy, -- to draw

inferences from them, --and then to say, these inferences must

be the doctrines of the Church of England, these inferences

must be contained in the Articles of our faith, --whatever those

Articles may say, this must be their meaning.
282 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. jETAT. 53.

" Now Dr. K. appears to me to have used this last method
Iof argumentation ; which method
                                  think a very dangerous

one ; and thereby to have imposed upon his own understand

ing. He has not sufficiently looked into the Articles them

selves: he has not, I think, submitted to their plain and

obvious meaning ; on the contrary, he has aimed to make the
Articles speak through the medium of the Liturgy, and this in
the following method : He has adverted to several passages of
the Liturgy which admit of two, or perhaps of three, interpre
tations, and which, in fact, have been so diversely interpreted.
He has considered those passages as incapable of bearing any
meaning but that which he has given to them. He has
thought that several expressions could not possibly be used by
any Calvinist ; when, in fact, they are daily used by the most
rigid and sincere Calvinists. He does not produce from the
Liturgy, in any one instance, a direct confutation of the
Calvinistic doctrines which he opposes: but he produces some

prayer, or some expression, which he thinks inconsistent with

Calvinistic doctrine ; and he never stops to inquire whether the

Calvinist himself draws from it the same conclusion ; but he

peremptorily decides that such or such a doctrine cannot be

contained in the Articles ; and this, I think, he does in more

than one instance, where the express words of the Article are
most incontrovertibly against him. Let it be admitted that the
Articles and the Liturgy are in perfect correspondence with

each other ; it then undoubtedly follows, that if any clause in

the Liturgy directly affirms an anti- Calvinistic doctrine, the
contrary Calvinistic doctrine cannot be the doctrine of the
Church of England. But it should be remembered that this same

conclusion will by no means take place, because Dr. K. thinks

that he has found some passages in the Liturgy inconsistent
with Calvinistic principles. If, indeed, the inconsistency of the

passage in the Liturgy be demonstrable, and, consequently,

undeniable, such inconsistency, although only an inference, will

amount to a direct affirmation and establishment of the con

trary doctrine ; but it is well known, that in controversies,
inferences of this nature, drawn by adversaries for the purpose
of confuting their opponents, are seldom to be relied on. In
        CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.  283

the present instances, the inferences upon which Dr. K. lays

so much stress, so far from being undeniable, have been, in all

ages, denied by reasonable men; and are at this moment denied

not only by Calvinists, but by many who, in general, by no

means accede to Calvinistic tenets.

    " If Mr. Overton and Presbyter should think proper to

defend themselves by appeals to the public, it will then be
seen whether they will admit Dr. K's way of managing the

questions in dispute, or whether they will not rather pursue a

plan somewhat like what I have here supposed, in regard to

the Articles, Homilies, and Liturgy of the Church of England.

    " Dr. Kipling appears to me throughout, to be fighting with

a phantom of his own creation. He would prove the Church of

England not Calvinistic, that is, according to him, not in exact

harmony with Calvin : and he also maintains that every one of

Calvin's peculiarities may be comprised under his single

doctrine of predestination.
I" Now
        much question whether any one person ever

affirmed the Church of England to be Calvinistic in that sense.

Dr. K. himself tells us, (p. 6, note) that of all the writers who

have lately attempted to demonstrate the Church of England

to be Calvinistic, no one has ever once quoted Calvin for this

purpose. He, very uncandidly, considers their silence as the

effect of design. Surely a candid inquirer after truth would
rather have supposed this silence to be the natural effect of

their using the word Calvinism in a sense somewhat different

from that in which the Doctor himself uses it. It would be to

little purpose here to reply, that Calvinism must mean the
opinions of Calvin; because there are, perhaps, few words in

any language that have not undergone material alterations in
Ithe progress of time : and
                             will not here stop to inquire

whether those who use the word in its ordinary acceptation, or

Dr. K., who alone uses it strictly according to its derivation, be
the more accurate observers of propriety of language. It is

sufficient to say, that in this mode of proceeding, the contro

versy, so far from being nearly brought to a termination, as

Dr. K. says it is, would never be terminated at all. Dr. K.

might, in this way, go on claiming imaginary victories for ever.
284 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. /ETAT. 53.

    " Most persons, I fancy, will think that Mr. O. uses the

terms Calvinism, Calvinistic, &c, in a sense much more agree

able to the received usage of language, and the established laws

of composition, than Dr. K. does by adhering rigidly to the

etymology of the word ; but  if, for the sake of argument, we
                               is
were to grant that the Doctor more correct than his oppo

nents in the use of those terms, don't see that, in the balance
                             I

of sound reasoning, he would gain feather's weight. Froma

this concession would not follow, as Dr. K. says would, thatit

Mr. O. uses the signs of ideas, without any ideas annexed to
them.' It would only follow, that Mr. O. has not proved the
I

               '
                    it
Church of England to be Calvinistic in the sense in which

Dr. K. understands that word; and very few persons indeed,

as believe, have ever thought, or undertaken to show, the

Church of England to be strictly Calvinistic in that sense.

Every reasonable person will endeavour to collect Mr. O.'s

opinion from the sense in which he himself tells us he uses his

words, and not from the sense in which Dr. K. thinks those
words ought to be used. If Mr. O. have not used the term

Calvinistic in the sense in which Dr. K. uses then he has not
                                                ? it,
pronounced the Church of England to be Calvinistic in that
                                                     I
sense and  it      to no purpose that Dr. K. endeavours to prove  a
;              is                                                          is
  ;
that Church not to be thus Calvinistic. If any other person

has affirmed the Church of England to harmonize with

Calvin's Institutes, Dr. K. may possibly have confuted that

person but he cannot have confuted Mr. O., who expressly

says that the Articles do not harmonize with the Institutes of

Calvin. Further since Mr. O. has explained himself on this
                   :

subject with particular exactness, why are not his own express

declarations to be believed? Can any good reason be given

why Mr. O. not to be considered as sincere on his side ofis

this question,  as Dr. K. on the opposite sideis
                only Mr. O., but all the writers
    " But not                                     who  have lately

taken up their pens to show that the Church of England

Calvinistic, are branded by Dr. K. as knowingly and designedly

endeavouring to impose upon the public, for some mischievous

purpose. There in this, something so unbecoming Chris
     I

                   is
tian, that choose to make no remark upon it.           am sorry
                        CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.                   285

that it has fallen from the pen of Dr. K. ; and I cannot but

contrast it with the declarations of Mr. Adam, a very strong

Anti-Calvinist, upon the same subject.

    "5. Dr. K. affirms that all the peculiar doctrines which are

connected with this inquiry, may be comprised under the single

doctrine  of predestination.  K.'s work  should  be of         opinion    that
          the reader of Dr.
   " If

the author has demonstrated his positions, in all the cases in

which he tells us that he has done so ; and also,
                              a                                           whenever

                                                                   a if,
one proposition may have connexion, sometimes greater and

sometimes less, with several other truths, all such truths may
a
properly be said to be comprised in that one; then he may
allow Dr. K.'s statement to be defensible.I
         I
    " But would observe, first, that Dr. K., however excellent
                     a
demonstrator he may conceive himself to be, will scarcely

think that he has exceeded Euclid in neatness and accuracy;

yet never heard any one maintain that all the elements of that

fine author are comprised in his first proposition. Secondly,             : if

we consult experience, we shall find that numbers of very

excellent men and very judicious writers, have held some of the

acknowledged Calvinistic doctrines, and have rejected others

and these writers were never charged with want of perspicuity,
or with abuse of language.

    " But Dr. Kipling affirms that all the Calvinistic doctrines

are so connected together as to form one chain, of which not              Ia

link can be spared. As often as thi3 principle maintained,
                                         ;

                                                           is
must contend as above, that each writer must be allowed to

determine for himself what propositions he thinks necessarily
connected, or not connected together that no writer ought to
be charged with holding doctrines which he himself disavows,

because another person thinks several doctrines comprised in

one. And lastly, that Dr. K. will not be considered as decisive

authority in questions of this kind, till he furnishes us with

much better specimens of demonstration, than any which are
to be found in his late pamphlet."

     On his return from Carlisle to Cambridge, after keeping his
residence at the former place, Dean Milner paid short visit
                                                               a
286 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. *1TAT. 53.

to his suffering niece at Hull. Other than a short visit he
never could prevail upon himself to pay at that place, subse

quent to the time of his brother's decease.
     While at Hull, he wrote to a valued friend, to the kindness

of whose surviving relatives I am indebted for various other

interesting communications, a letter containing the following
practical hints, concerning the proper time and manner of

learning languages.

"I" My dear Sir,                                "Hull, August 1, 1803.

    had unfortunately left Carlisle when your kind letter

arrived thither.

    " Permit me to imitate the medical gentlemen, who, upon

farther reflection, and a more distinct view of a case, frequently
alter or modify their first thoughts.

   I I" knew that your son was a good scholar ; or, at least,
had good reason for so thinking. But I had no notion that his
Iattainments were so great as now believe them to be. On

the supposition, therefore, that he is intended for the ministry,

I see no objection (in his circumstances) to his getting through,
as soon as possible, the drudgery part of learning Hebrew. I

mean that part which consists chiefly in exertions of the

memory.

     "These exertions are absolutely necessary in learning a
language, and never more than in the attainment of Hebrew.

Every word is new ; besides the queerness of the conjugations,

of the suffixes and prefixes, and the points.

   I" For all this, repeat youth the time.
                            P it,                     The older we

                                            is
grow the less we like exertions of memory, and the less capable

we are of making them.            to be a good Hebraist, there

    " If you ever wish Mr.

ia  no time to be lost. He will be above getting off words by

heart by and by his understanding will make him despise the
         ;
                 ;
employment and though he may see the future advantage, he

will with difficulty be  brought  to buckle     to.   meddle  with  the
    " Still, he must     not be   permitted       to

niceties of the language at present nor should he spend deal
                                  ;                           a

of time about Hebrew yet."
                 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.       287

by  Dr.          Milner's mind was, at  othf isthteimceo, uvnetrryy.seri"ouLsitlyeraolclycupaiendd
    the           state and prospects

vviesritil,y,""  he wrote to  Mr. Wilberforce, from Hull, during this
                 there seems  not to be the smallest concern here about

the war. I never saw a place so involved in worldly affairs-
It is shocking ! It is affecting beyond measure."

    Later in the year, when invasion had been so long expected

that persons, in general, were becoming callous to the threatened

danger, and were beginning to look upon the affairs of the

country with indifference, he thus wrote from Cambridge to the
same friend: "The Ministry are everywhere, but particularly

here, thought weak, on the whole; but exceedingly well-
Iintentioned.
                 do not hear a mouth opened against their

principles. I am sure nothing would give us so much general
satisfaction as a junction between Pitt and Addington ; Pitf 8

vigour, and Addington's discretion, would please exceedingly."

    It may here be mentioned, that Mr. Wilberforce's health

was, at this time, so weak, that "the duty of withdrawing alto

gether from public life," was "repeatedly and urgently" pressed
upon him*. With reference to these solicitations he thus
wrote to Mr. Babington, early in the month of November:

I" On this head will consult my friend the Dean (of Carlisle),
on whom I can entirely rely for all the qualities requisite for

enabling him to form a satisfactory judgment in the case."

    It may have been gathered from the foregoing portion of

this work, that, on occasion of such appeals to his judgment,

Dr. Milner, while he constantly exhorted his friend to the use

of great care and caution in his exertions, never advised him to

quit the important post which Providence had assigned to him.

    Personal recollections, when their genuineness and correct

ness can be relied on, are highly valuable as affording variety

of interest to a memoir of this nature. Different peculiarities

strike different minds ; and consequently, an accumulation even

of slight anecdotes or recollections, supplied by various persons,
greatly tends to the production of a faithful representation of

the character delineated.

                 · See Life of Wilberforce, vol. iii.
288 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.

A clergyman, formerly a member of Queen's College, per

mits me to enrich this volume with the following very lively

account of a visit to Dean Milner, paid in the autumn of this

year, by himself, and a young companion. " My first acquaint
ance with the Dean," writes this gentleman, " was when Mr.

Sergeant S     and I were invited to the Lodge, at a time

when we were pupils to Mr. Thomason of Shelford. The Dean

was wonderfully kind to us ; sat up till two in the morning

for two or three successive nights, giving us practical philoso

phical illustrations of the nature of light and colours, &c, &c,

and amusing us with anecdotes. Amongst his other illustra

tions was that of the cause of the colour of shadows, with this

                                  KEII

scheme, with which you are, no doubt, very familiar ; and which

he said that he himself had first discovered.

    "On the second or third day of our visit, he placed us

in a bed-chamber, and said that he had a curiosity to know

how we should translate certain passages from some classic

authors, and do a problem or two in mathematics; that we

should oblige  him.    state  of  extravagant  laughter  while closeted
               into a
    " We got

together, and had not the slightest suspicion that we were
undergoing an examination. We found afterwards, that each

of us was admitted to his College on the ground of what we

then did.

    " Apparently for a moral end only, he affected to be slightly

offended with the laughter ; and alluding to it indirectly, said,
' Men's weakest time is in their laughter : it exposes them as

much as wine:' and he gave me an instance of this, by

mentioning some characteristic trait in myself, which he had

discovered in my laughter."

    Some further " recollections" of a different and more im
        CUAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.               289

portant nature, communicated by the same friend, respecting
Dr. Milner, belong to a somewhat later period.

    In the month of October, in this year, there appeared, in

the Christian Observer, a critique, (continued in the November
and December numbers,) on Milner's Ecclesiastical History.

     Of this critique Dean Milner took no public notice. His

sentiments respecting it are, however, sufficiently laid open in
the following letter ; a letter which, although it certainly mani

fests the warmth and quickness of his feelings with regard to

whatever concerned his brother, or his brother's memory, must
be felt to breathe much of the purest spirit of Christian charity.

The Dean's observations on the plan and execution of that part

of the Church History which records the life of Wickliffe, are

especially valuable.                " Queen's College,

"My dear Sir,                     16f/t December, 1803.
I1st. "You yourself examined, (while was last in London,)

into the Fatalism ascribed by the Christian Observer, to Wick-

line. The evidences to the contrary are in the early pages of

appendix to Vol. IV. of Milner's Church History.
    " Is not a man, is not Wickliffe to be believed, when he

speaks out? He says, the liberty of the Divine power is

summe libera. A single expression of this sort ought to stand

against a thousand metaphysical niceties. The late Mr. Toplady

had misunderstood Wickliffe ; having, most clearly, never read
Ithe passage in question in Wickliffe's writings.
                                                   was tender
Iof Toplady's memory, and only quoted from him, so much as

thought defensible : the Christian Observer has quoted the rest,

from Middleton's Biographia Evangelica, and has made himself

a party along with Toplady, in accusing Wickliffe of fatalism.
Sec Christian Observer, November, 1803, page 679.

   "If the Christian Observer had but given the evidence, he

would have been at perfect liberty to conclude as he pleased.

    " 2ndly. The Christian Observer (page 676,) is not satisfied

that more is not said about the Great Western Schism; and

says,"  that it was  attended  with very important consequences.    a
        He forgets   that the   author of this History writes only

History of the Church of Christ.                   v
290 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.

"The author is very pointed, (over and over) in making
Ifthe reader understand his plan.
                                   the Observer had said,
'Mr, Milner, agreeably to his plan, has twice briefly ad

verted, very particularly, to the important consequences of

this schism,' the remark would have been true, pertinent, and

instructive.

    " The remark, as it now stands, is a disagreeable slur on the

author,

"3rdly. The Observer expected a fuller account of the

Lolla"rTdus.rn to Mosheim, cent. X4., Internal History, chap, ii.,

sect. 36, and you will find a very long and learned note on the

History of Lollardism, by a man who had deeply studied the

point : and you will also see, that the Historian of the Church
Iof Christ had nothing to do with such details.
                                                 wish that

either Mosheim or the Christian Observer could have pointed

Iout any eminent servants of God who have been omitted*

would have thanked them in earnest.

    "While Mosheim is in your hand, turn to sect. 15 of the

same chapter; there you will see, in italics, The Great Western

Schism.

    "How soon a man may become sufficiently learned to
censure others ! and how easy it is to say, ' We look in vain for

a luminous view of the Ecclesiastical History of the Fourteenth

ICentury!' (See Christian Observer, November, p. 6770 Once

more answer, it was not the author's plan to write the History

of the Fourteenth Century; what he undertook to write was
the History of the Church of Christ. He was most uncom

monly versed in history of all sorts, particularly in ecclesiastical

history; and, in general, was well qualified to retain and to

dismiss matters, according to their value, when estimated by

his plan. Among the sects omitted, (see Christian Observer,
p. 677,) there probably were good men; but who knows it?

     "4thly. The Observer next says, that 'lavish enoomiums'

I Iare bestowed on Bradwardine's

    " have only to say that
                                book against the Pelagians.

                                most persons,  may say all, of

my acquaintance, have expressed both delight and astonishment

on reading the extracts given.
     CHAP. XV. A.D. 18Q3. JETAT. 53.                                     291

     " 5thly. The Observer (p. 678), intimates that there is neither

'perspicuity of style/ nor 'felicity of arrangement,' in the
account of Wickliffe. This is very hard. A very learned
friend of mine came in the other day and said, ' What can they

mean ? Perspicuity of style is the peculiar characteristic of Mr.

Milner.' So far as authority goes, this evidence is decisive.

    " The fact is, that the Christian Observer was not aware of

the  "diMffirc.ulMtyilnoef rwrsitaiynsg,  the life  of   Wickliffe.
                                          ' There    is   no person
                                                                     of ecclesiastical

eminence, whose life and character have cost me more thought

and care than Wickliffe's.'

    " One would have thought that such a declaration might

have led to more candour in the remarker. But do read the
Life again, and see whether it be like ' a common-place book,'
as the Observer says it is.

   " If the Observer had read any one of Wickliffe's biogra

phers, he must have known that there are prodigious obscurities

and even inconsistencies in the accounts of Wickliffe, and that

Mr. Milner has cleared up many things respecting him, without

mentioning the faults of the authors who had gone before him,

except quite generally. His plan is this. First he collects
the large facts in order. Then he gives an account of Wick

liffe's works. Next he makes critical observations on Wick

liffe's character, and answers the insinuations and calumnies of

Plume, &c. Lastly, he makes interesting and explanatory

reflections, most of them entirely new.

   I" know, that the Life of Wickliffe is thought, by those

who are very .well versed in these matters, to be one of the

most capital productions of the author. The language of the

most learned and able in these subjects, is to this effect:

' This history surprises and delights everybody ;' ' All are eager

for the sequel. The author's powers appear eminent in this

part of the work. His patience and sagacity in managing the

few fragments that remain respecting Wickliffe, are truly

admirable. All that we had before was either romance, or a

mere bundle of inconsistent fragments. Mr. Milner has pro

duced an intelligible whole, and has interspersed his account

with very instructive observations.'

                                                                     u2
292 CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. JETAT. 53.

" In p. 610 of the Christian Observer for October last, there

"agSatiinll,somseays,lursneuvpeornsathweawsaenntteonfceluocifdmusy  ordo.
I Iare                                                              brother's,  which

was not clear as to its meaning : but suppose there were some
such, a good critic is always governed by Horace's rule, Ubi

plura  nitent,  §c.  it  may,  I  am  ready to  own  that                the  first volume
       Be that
    "            as

was not so correct as it should have been, and as it would have

been, but for some particular circumstances. In a word, the

author trusted the review of that volume to one who was far

from being careful. But should not the Observer have known,

that there was a second edition of the first volume published
Iin 1800 ?
                am not willing to own that that is very incorrect,
Ibecause revised it myself.

"Now to be very plain. Upon reading such a critique as
this, it would be the height of affectation in me to say, that I

was not considerably displeased with the Christian Observer.
II" However, believe shall take your advice as to answer
I Iing, at present, certainly, --and if ever
                                                     do answer,                     shall

endeavour to avoid everything that looks like the unchristian

Ispirit of returning evil for evil. You know what think the
Igreat defect of the Christian Observer, and am now glad that
I expressed that to you in private long ago, long before their

remarks on this work came out. Their treatment of my
brother's book will make me in future say, not more, but less,

on that subject. As to the book itself, it must stand, and will
Istand, on its own merits. Of this              feel fully assured. I

do most sincerely assure you, that by far the most disagreeable

part of this business          is,
                                       a

                                          I

                                                                      a
                                  that as       have very numerous

religious acquaintance, and considerable correspondence of

the same sort, there will be no end of the questions shall
                                                                              aI I
be asked about the Christian Observer's critique. The learned

who will or can judge for themselves are few and those of my
                                                     ;

friends who are partial to me, and who think that                                 know

better than the Christian Observer, will be eager to show their
dislike of the Observer's critique, as least to as high degree

as they can collect that my dislike, or vexation, arises. Others

who are merely curious, and who like to talk, will want to know
CHAP. XV. A.D. 1803. /ETAT. 53.  293

Iwhat is the reply which I have to make. Nay, have already

been strongly solicited to reply ' with a vengeance.' Literally,

I am every day asked questions on this subject, either vivd voce,

or by letter.

    " After all, I believe that the Christian Observer is the best
Iof the religious monthly publications ; and so long as think
Iso, shall never treat him so uncivilly, not to say unkindly, as

Ihe has treated me. Even if the Observer fall into errors,

would be tender of his public reputation. The managers of
this publication ought not to trust the reviewing of works of
consequence to persons who do not understand the subjects

treated of.

   I" In the critique in question perceive abundance of self-

sufficiency, and vain pretensions to learning, all of which would
have been bridled a good deal by real knowledge, but most
effectually by a truly humble and godly spirit. The editors
should mind whom they employ."

     With respect to the general observations concerning the
Christian Observer, which occur towards the end of the fore
going letter, it can scarcely be necessary to remark, that having
been written in the year 1803, their publication now can carry
along with it nothing offensive to the feelings of the present
conductors of that very valuable and useful work.
                                       294

                                       CHAPTER XVI.

Correspondence.-- Religious Experience. -- Professor Carlyle.-- Letter to his
                                                    RSeelilgf-iEoxuasmMineamtioorna.n--daR.--eliHgiionutss
Sister on his Death.-- Domestic         Affairs.--
for Sermons. --Private Thoughts.       --Helps to
Correspondence. -- Library at Lambeth.--Affairs of tho Board of Longi
tMudyes.te--ryH.i--stoLreyttoefrthteo  Church. --Perseverance. -- Investigation of
                                        John Pearson, Esq., on the Death of his     tho Sawston
                                                                                    Daughter.--

Kindness of Heart. --Visit to London.

                                A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.

In the month of January Dr. Milner was necessarily much

occupied by the duties which devolved upon him as President
of Queen's College, and as Professor of Mathematics. He
always, however, found time for the service of his friends ; and,
in particular, never neglected applications for advice.

      On the 3rd of January, 1804, he thus wrote to a gentleman
who had consulted him respecting a suitable tutor for his son,

a youth of excellent abilities and acquirements :--" * * *

If even you could find a person ever so well qualified as to

learning, yet if he were deficient in the religious part of his

Icharacter, should think it most hazardous to trust to him a

youth of your son's years; and that you would very dearly

purchase the little good that can be expected -- dearly --very
dearly --at the hazard of a deterioration of his religious princi

ples, in consequence of irreligious association."
      The following letter contains, beside the tender expression

 of the writer's affectionate feelings on the occasion which called
it forth, much that will be deeply interesting to religious
 readers in general, and to the surviving religious friends of
 Dean Milner in particular.

"To William Wilberforce, Esq.

"I"My dear Friend,                     "Queen's College, Epiphany, 1804.

cannot help giving you a line upon having received

yours this morning.
              CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.             295

     "Alas! alas! this poor dear little one! that looks so like

Iyour deceased mother! May really hope that the worst is

over? It is the most affecting thing in the world to see a

Ichild one loves, ill ; and find it impossible not to love these
Ilittle ones if live with them and see their pretty ways of

going on.

    " Yet what a deal of art, and sometimes not of amiable art,

do they show! But then they overpower one absolutely by

their thousand little affectionate tricks and looks. Depend

upon it there is a superintending Providence that peculiarly

guards them.

"Edwards* is indeed a deep hand. There is a world of
Ithinking, sometimes, in a few pages.
                                       studied his book long

ago, with very great care, and wrote a few notes on some passages

IIwhere thought him not so clear as usual, or, perhaps, where
Ido not quite agree with himf, which, in general, do very

much.

    " To live the life of faith is the thing after all ! and a hard

matter it is.

   I" My poor heart is fuller than anybody knows on earth.
Iam sadly dissatisfied, and sadly hampered; know not where

to turn, or what to say; but it is not from want, but from

abundance of matter.

   I" have been trying plans that are, in some respects, new
to me. I mean practical plans. What will be the result
I II know not.
              am not without hope, but this is all

Ican "saOyn. e thing I can add.  have the fullest conviction of
Ithe Way; see it as if marked with a sun-beam, blessed be

God!

    " Moreover I find, that whenever I can act, for even a short
time, in any measure, up to the principles which I know to be
right, I succeed so far.

"There
'
                        is,

                                          +a
                                                                                                            is
              indeed, secret in religion, and this secret

with them that fear Him.'

              * The Rev. Jonathan Edwards.

                       See Chapter XI.
296  CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. jETAT. 54.

   " Every doubt about knotty points vanishes in proportion

I Ias have a disposition to be active, and as support a real,

Iprac"ticalprelifaechoefdfaoitnh.Christmas-day  in our chapel, and got a good

deal of cold.                                     " Yours affectionately,
                                                           " Isaac Milner."

     Professor Carlyle, more than once incidentally mentioned in
the foregoing pages, as an old and much esteemed friend of
Dean Milner, died, after a long illness, during the spring of this
year. The following letter addressed to his surviving sister,
since deceased, bears upon it the impress of the exquisitely

affectionate disposition which characterized the writer.

                                                    " Queen's College Lodge,
I"Dear Miss D. Carlyle,
   I" was going to write to
     you                                        at  large,   May 21, 1804.
                                                            though know not
Iwhether should have had heart to get through, when a corres

pondence took place between your friends at Newcastle and

myself.

    "You will, no doubt, have heard of that correspondence,

Iand may consider everything which said to them as said to

yourself.

    " People talk of time wearing off the effect of these blows,

but I have never found much of that.
    I" At any moment can weep as sincerely and as freely as

Iever, for the loss of my true friends; and have long declared,

that the world would never more look like itself to me. Happy
will it be for us if our hearts are but made to submit to God's

dispensations, and to see real kindness in them, by having,
through their means, our affections weaned from the world, and
set on things above. This is the lesson that will do us good.

    "This is a melancholy Isort of strain, own, to use to a

person in affliction, nevertheless, it is the only view of the thing

which affords any relief to my own mind, as I trust it may to
Iyours, because point to the true medicine for this and every

"other evil.
      ITo be sure frequently reflect on the afflicting history of

my few years' connexion with Carlisle.
                 CHAP. XVT. A.D. 1804. /ETAT. 54.                      297

      " Your dear brother made the observation himself, and alas !

               a

                                                                  it,
how much more reason is there now to make than there was

at the time when he said to me, with tears in his eyes, 'What

ravages have few years made in the little circle that met at

the Deanery, rejoicing with one another, only so lately as the

"Iyear 1793 or 1794.'
           perfectly well remember the meetings which he then

alluded to. Himself and his wife and mother, his two sisters,

Mr. and Mrs. L., and Mrs. B., and dearest George*; Ellen

was not then born: add myself, his old friend                          and my
                                            III
brother,  a    new friend whom he took to very warmly. Old
              a                                  I
Mr. Farish and Dr. Paley, though not exactly of the same class,   ,

were yet fine additions to the parties.

    "What change! So was to be! It was hardly possible
                           it

                                  a
for the heart of man to devise situation that to myself should

promise more comfort, of every sort, than my appointment to

this deanery.       thank God has had its \ises, trust; but by
                 I         it

                                 I
no means so much in the way that had reckoned upon, as                 is

agreeable to flesh and blood.                   should not leave

    " Were to give way fully to my feelings,
          I

tear in my constitution.
a     " You may think
     a                 it  odd enough, but    am really so little

master of myself, that every day, without exception, many times

in day, and very often in the night when cannot sleep, that

picture, that very great likeness of my friend, which hangs in

your sitting-room, comes into my mind, and crowds upon me

so fresh, and with so much force, as sometimes to gratify me

exceedingly, and at other times to produce the most grievous

affliction. In fact, can have his features expressed before my
II

         a
                 is,

               I

                                        a

                                             I
eyes, in the most lively manner, at any time please.
      " There
                 perhaps, weakness in mentioning these things,

but would not talk in this way to any body.

    " sincerely pray that this loss coming upon you, in so

severe way just after your recovery from a bad illness, may

not have hurt your health, and proved too much for your

enfeebled frame.

        * George Carlyle, only son of Professor Carlyle. See Chap. X.
21)8 CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.

    " Your sister's spirits and strength and ability to go through
difficulties, are really surprising. It is a great blessing to the

family.

    "You will be sorry, dear lady, to hear, that besides the

Itroubles which you know of, hare also private afflictions to

struggle with of considerable weight.

    " My little great-niece Mary, who, by degrees, has stolen

Imore of my affection than was aware of, is very ill, though I
Ido not quite give her up, and know not whether her mother
be not in still greater danger, and she is the nearest relation I

have in the world, so that the world indeed turns but a dark
side to me." * * * After communicating his purpose of

bringing    his niece,  with  her family, to     Carlisle    during the
ensuing   summer, also        old quiet friend,  seventy   years old, of
                        " an

the name of Tillotson*, who would only desire to smoke his

pipe, and be no trouble to any creature," the Dean, with his

habitual considerate kindness, adds a request that matters
should be so arranged as to render it feasible, that his house
keeper might "have little Mary with her," as she had been

" Used to have."

   Having been myself the " little Mary," here mentioned, I

may, perhaps, be permitted to step out of my way for an instant,

Ito acknowledge the debt of gratitude which owe to this good

" housekeeper," who lived with Dr. Milner, till his death. She

watched, like a mother, over my childhood, and felt for me, I

verily believe,  something   not very  unlike a mother's love.      at
     The Dean,              Tillotson
                 with Mr.              and " little Mary," arrived

Carlisle, about the middle of June ; and, in pursuance of the

plan intimated in the above letter, was, soon afterwards, joined

by his niece, her husband, and her two younger children.

To Dr. Milner, thus again surrounded by his relatives, and

preaching in the Cathedral, with unabated zeal and energy, as

often as his health, recently shaken by a severe illness, would

permit, this summer's residence at Carlisle proved a period of

considerable enjoyment.

The following private religious memoranda, written during

                         * See Chapter VIII.
                   CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.                               299

this quiet summer, will, doubtless, be highly valued by serious

readers.

    These memoranda consist, partly, of hints for sermons ; and

partly, of private thoughts, intended, probably, as helps to self-

examination.

    In elucidation of the first class of these private notes --the
hints for sermons -- it should be observed, that Dr. Milner was

in the habit of keeping, and turning over in his mind, during a

considerable period, any subject upon which he intended to

    a
                                          a
                                                                           a

                                                                             it,
write; and of putting down, with reference to                                     sometimes

upon any scrap of paper that might be at hand, and sometimes
in small blank paper book, such thoughts as, from time to

time, occurred to him.

     The following reflections are here given without any altera
tion, and in the order in which they stand in Dean Milner's
hand-writing -- not in book, but on detached and tattered

piece of paper. His abbreviations and his customary note of

observation f(3r are likewise retained.

       " Exam, yrselves whether ye be in the f*."
    " More reason for exam, now than even in the prim, times.

    " Confessing X* does not consist in common morality, but

in the peculiars of X*y.

    "We are not Xns Unless the peculiars are kept up and
adhered to -- (See Sermon on Fruits,) that in which X'y differs

from other schemes.

    "iS" In the primitive times Gosp1 doctrine, and Gosp
practice, were distinct from everything else-- marked--
    " But now, in Xn country-- the danger
                       it a                is        Jest, 1st being

baptized, we take for granted all right.isa
                                  is
    " 2d. If we are of a party, as the Church -- and profess right

--then all right.

    "3d. Still more, we are of purer portion of the Church:
                       if

then we are apt to be satisfied with our faith, and to substitute

f.  for practice.

          * This the text of one of Dr. Milner's printed Sermons.
                   is
300 CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. jETAT. 54.

" But this is not the only danger. We may put practice for

          .1

             if is,

                                         is
                                                              a
                                                              is
                                                                        f.

                                                                    J >1

                                                                                                          a;
f. That a regular pharisaical life, though useful, in the place

of spiritual relign.
"
   #tS"   We may he very pharisa1           in this way.

" Symptms of the former, that               of for practice --when

we are very contracted in our acquaintances, and think quite well

of them they think as we do of doctrines.

   " Symptm of the latter, when good conduct quite satisfies

us-- and yet we are worldly minded and court the great.

" We ought to be spirit1 in thoughts 0wen,

                                                 in affections Page

                      and complacency                                   11.

" Owning the truth not enough. There should be power

over the conscience.

    "Deception. When men think they are right because

they believe the truths; tho' they forget them in practice.

    " Earthly mindedness, in degree, consistent with good

state. O. 14.

    " Dangerous work-- ruins men to run the matter

of earthly-mindedncss near.
          if
" Men say        it

                       is
                             ;a

                                               a

                                           it
                                                            is

                                                                                                     a
                      fine thing to be spirit1? minded --but they

have not leisure.

    " Qy., such are not carnally minded.

,'C3* TnouGHTS there must be some blossoms or no fruit.

     " Voluntary thoughts, in easy circumstances, the best indi

cation of the mind, gracious or not.

"A minister may be forced by his business                               to think on
                   -- that proves nothing.
spirit"1   things   be natural thoughts.
          Should

" Consider what our affections aim at.

" Little Grace, only spiritual when in fright.
                      if

                                                                     a
               CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1801. /ETAT. 54.       301
" Even prayers may excite thoughts, from habit.

         True Signs.
                          a pleasure --
"When     the soul finds  duty -- but from  delight.
         not merely as a
" Prays

     "The thoughts should lead to watchfulness daily  'They
must abound. The saints abounded.

    " Should grieve when they are interrupted.

   "In general those who serve God let their light shine

before men, that they may see their good works : and also those
who serve divers lusts and imaginations, usually conduct them
selves in such a manner, that their sins are open, going before
hand to judgment ; tho' there may be many exceptions in both
sorts of characters; some recluse and modest spirits, who
scarcely suffer their religious attainments to appear, as well as
some hypocrites who endeavour to conceal and cover their
vices : yet even to these exceptions, the rule of judging by the
fruits equally applies itself. The difference is only, that a little
more care is called for in investigating what the fruits really are.
The rule itself is universal and never, fails. The difficulty arises
not from a defect in the rule -- but from the nature of the fruits

to be examined."

     The following observations, most of them bearing the
impress of deep thought, and pregnant with instruction, are
written in a minute but distinct hand, upon a very small piece
of paper, doubled so as to form four pages, and apparently
intended to fit into a pocket-book, or perhaps, a small

Testament."

     They are printed precisely as they were written by Dean
Milner.

    " Math. 16. 17. Blessed-- Simon B.
     "Some Elias --Jercm. Blessed Peter! flesh and b. not

revealed: but God.

    " Scribes, Phar., Rulers, were misled : f. and b. could not

reveal it.

    "f. anl b. does revsal a deal-- arts: sciences: spi* of

wisdom: but net saving Spi1 Light.
302 CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.

     "There is Spi1 Light by God,

    " Spi1 IS is not ordinary conviction--It is not an action on
the Imagn --not an Impress"--not new truths --not affecting
views -- not stories about heaven, &c.

    " Divine Ll is a convict11 of the excell. of God's truth : The
Sp* of G. unites himself--does not act occasionally, A Xn
does not merely believe, that X* and his doctne are glorious --
but feels it-- sees it--has a sense of its beauty --Honey --

Beauty, &c. The Differncc. Devils believe, &c.
'' This sense of the excellence, convinces of the reality.
" Prejudices 1
" Enmities
" The Phar. saw, but the Disciples believed.
" In giving                       God uses the Word, and our faculties' -- still
it

     is
                    is

                        it,
                                is

                                                                 «<

                                                              a

                                                    of
                                                                   it

                                                         I
       his Gift. Men are active in receive --God deals with

man accords to his nature -- as rational creature, &c. Thus

the eyes are not the cause of light-- but the Sun: but the eyes

when there sun, can discover objects.

"The Gospel                            the means. But no means necessarily
operate the effect--The Word does not produce the effect.

                                       Truth it.

"The Scrip, full of it. S*. John, 'know God.'
" God makes the Ll to shine. Open mine eyes that may
see--David not
    " Rational                    blind. X* manifested himself.     Divine       things --

                                  --to suppose an Excellence in

This will stop every mouth at the last day.                                 Given by God

    " It may be seen --but not by wicked men.
--Rational.

"This Light proves the truth of relign to the unlearned;

and      superior to                   other way.

    "  Use. Have                       got this Light
     is                           any                  of  the  Gos.        Has  it  shined
                                  we                                ?
                               :                                         :
into our hearts                    Have we had sight of X* A Glimpse ofit
Him ennobles                      the soul: gives immense pleasure --supports
under afflict11".                 It changes -- converts -- makes us see thea
                                                                it

Glory of God as in glass. It makes us give up ourselves to
       .1

            it

                                    a
X*-- and produces univers1 holiness.

" Always in Prayer remember condit" by nature -- poor

and blind.
               CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.                              303

"The Charactr of Aim. G.
" How humble we should be --
" How grateful that there is Light.
" 2. Teach us to see the wonds things of thy Law --
"       we not rest without this Light--
"  May  we seek for the Sp*--and for Union                         with  him --and
   May

not Quench him.

    " May we relish the things of G.

"3. Let us not be content      with  superfic1 views of X*.              us  ?--
" We are persuad he came       from  G. but is his Spi* in

Are we His ?"

Of the foregoing spiritual meditations there is one which

can scarcely fail to remind the reader of a passage in Joseph

Milner's letter,  on the subject of Christian Resignation*.

" When once,"     sa"ysyouthecadnyisntgedfCahstrliystiraenly  to   his almost heart
                                                               on   the Divine pro
broken brother,
mises through Christ, so sure as ' faith worketh by love,' you
will find yourself enabled to love God." * * * "A union

and fellowship with Christ will take place; and it is the sweetest

and the pleasantest sensation which the human mind can

know." Surely the surviving brother, however conversant

with conflict and temptation, had experienced this "sensation,"
                  " A glimpse
when he wrote                  of Him  ennobles                    the   soul," and
                  pleasure !"
" gives immense

     The private thoughts which remain to be here inserted,
appear, for the most part, to have been designed as aids to self-
examination. Of this, with regard to many of them, there is

sufficient internal evidence. It should also be observed that

the paper upon which they are written is headed

                        " Ex Fruits
    " People fancy themselves good, by living in good habits,

and with good people."

    " Practical utility of a conviction of two classes and no more.
It leads to self-examination.

                  * See Chapter IX.
304 CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. JETAT. 54.

    " It leads to Prayer for help --but
            " f0F Flesh and Spirit do not mix.

                  "Errors about Co-operatn.

    " It does not follow, that men may instantly know to which

of the two classes they belong : nor is it necessary :

    "But it is essential, that they should believe in only two

classes.

    " The practical difference is immense.

              There is danger even in truly religious persons, of
thinking they have a stock of grace, &c, &c.

    " Besides it may gratify the flesh at a certain time of life to

support relign. and may natter pride as much as other things."

     The concluding remarks seem rather to have been written
with a view to an intended sermon : probably, to a sermon on
"Being ashamed of Christ," since published in the second
volume of Dean Milner's Posthumous Sermons.

    " It is a great proof of God's goodness, that he does not
merely state the consequences of Religion --but makes use of
our passions to persuade, &c, --hope --fear--contempt"

    " Of him will the Son of Man be ashamed."

    "Both X* and good men will despise the wicked for the

choice they have made; preferring such shameful, worthless
things, to the enjoyment of God, and holiness.

    " Xt8 judgment is infallible --his dignity and authority not

to be questioned.

    " How little we can bear contempt !
    " fcS" ' Suffer with fortitude' --' many are in the same con
dition '--and such like--
    " Nothing of this land will be heard ; but all will be em

bittered by contempt.

    " What will become of those who have been used to adula
tion ? the poor, ignorant disciple of X* owned-- and by one who

cannot mistake .' !
               CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. jETAT. 54.                                                305

   "I don't here introduce   real positive sufferings of the
                             be felt by all, and be, to all
wicked -- as by Fire.
    "This of contempt, will

intelligible.

    "State this punishment First -- then the second head is,
What it is to be ashamed of X*.

   I" have guarded the modest, and excited to self-exam, the

Pharis1 and the careless.

     "Ridiculous to talk of Antinom. when matters are stated
thus."

    While Dr. Milner thus passed this summer at Carlisle, his
excellent friends the Rev. Dr. Jowett and the Rev. Charles

Simeon were occupied, at Cambridge, in superintending the
re-printing of the second volume of the Ecclesiastical History.
Dr. Jowett undertook the labour of reading this volume with a
view to the making of any needful alterations -- of course con

sulting the Dean when such alterations were otherwise than

merely verbal -- and to Mr. Simeon was committed the correc
tion of the proof sheets. With both these friends Dean Milner

kept up an epistolary correspondence. The letters of Dr.
Jowett are remarkable for their simple piety.

Dea"n,Yoduurinhgavethifsreqsuumenmt erin, t"imoaf titohnes,u"ncwerrottaeintDy r.oJfowlifee,tt    to the
Iown person.                                                                                   in your

               have many in the persons of others, though my

own health, moderate as it is, suffers few interruptions. May

we both be prepared for our Lord's coming !
                    " Yours affectionately,
                                                 "J. Jowett.
"July 22nd, 1804."

     After his return to Cambridge, in the month of September,

the Dean of Carlisle wrote to Mr. Wilberforcc, at that time at
Lyme, in Dorsetshire, the following deeply interesting letter :--

                                                 x
306 CHAP. XVI. A.I). 1804. JETAT. 54.

"To William Wilberforce, Esq.

"My very dear Friend,             " Queen's College,

                                  24th September, 1804.
" Here I am again, after receiving many mercies, and pretty

much in my usual plight --troubled a good deal.
I"You are in a sweet place.
                                  am sorry you find yourself

always so much in a hurry, and always so oppressed with

business.

   I" Without great care, find myself getting into that way, so

as to be always in a bustle; and, with me, when this is given way
Ito, nothing serious can thrive.
                                  believe you have more com

mand of yourself ; but take care, and do not encroach on the
time which ought to be allotted to quiet meditation. Of how

very little moment will the world and all its concerns appear to

be, by and by, and how bitterly shall we lament that we did not

squeeze out more time for religious improvement !

    " Take notice, there is such a thing as giving way repeatedly,

and for a long time, to a bad habit, till we become, in a measure,
Ifsatisfied that resistance and amendment are impossible.
                                                           we

don't mind, we are apt to mistake the struggles of conscience,

and the pain which it costs us to stifle a sense of duty, for a

laudable striving to acquit ourselves well in the race we have to

run. But God is not mocked! He watches whether some

sort of secret selfishness is not the motive at the bottom.
     " Thus it is easy to talk, and even in the pulpit. This

summer, in spite of infirmities, and a fortnight's illness, I have

been enabled to preach ten times, in great churches, in Carlisle
Iand its neighbourhood ; and, may add, with very great appa
Irent success.
                mention my being enabled to get through

these things, though with great bodily inconvenience, as some

thing surprising and even paradoxical, when the state of my
Imind is considered.  know not how it is --in one word, I

have no confidence towards God, and, of late, have been very

much beset with lamentable temptations. God knows, I have,

for a long time, taken considerable pains in self-examination, to

find out where it is that I particularly offend; Ias feel assured,
I Itins must be the case, or should not experience what do : or
                    CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. jETAT. 54.                                                                307

I it,is that have been so long and grievous an offender against

       I                                 not fit for such rebel to be

                 a
light and knowledge, that    ?                        a

                              it                         I
                                   is
treated like good subject
                                                                                                                was in
    " remember telling my poor brother, once, when

considerable affliction of mind, that, notwithstanding my
                                         I'
many sins and obdurate state, still was well convinced that

there did not exist any one earthly, improper, object that was
                                                                                                                I

secretly and knowingly wishing for, which might be displeasing

to gracious God, and prevent his smiles and most truly,
I
    Iaafter years of examination,can honestly say the same. But
                    is

                          ;I
                               I

                                                      it

                                                                                                               ;
still, fear, the case bad and suspect to be in this way
  do not give myself up wholly to God -- with every power and

every nerve, thought, word, and deed--to be his servant here

and hereafter, to eternity, having no pleasure but in doing his

will. Say nothing of this*.              could not help pouring out my
                         II
spirit little to you. You know not what suffer. My private
Ia                            I              II
      I
          I
prayers are most unaccountably flat and unfeeling, even on the
very days that exhort others with vehemence and with tears.

Still, still, cannot be persuaded that am to be given up,
while have so much steady love to Christ.

    " What an awful text preached on the other day, Know
                                                          ?'

                                                              '
ye not that Christ in you, except ye be reprobatesis

    " If live, think shall contrive to be more at Carlisle
I
   I
           I
than have been hitherto.

    " N. B. The resurrection of the dead bodies will not be half

so surprising       as the resurrection  of characters.

                                          " Yours, affectionately,
                                                            " Milner."
                                                      I.

The Rev. John Newton, think                  a it  is, who somewhere
                             I

says, " cannot doubt of the safe state of man, who, supposing
aI
our Lord's     question   to Peter, 'Lovest thou      me?'                                                      to  be
addressed to   him, can  honestly answer, Yes.' "
                                             '

On similar ground, the above letter, although exceedingly

affecting, cannot, surely, be otherwise than satisfactory, to the

surviving religious friends of Dean Milner.



                     is
                                                                                                             2
This letter         already published in the Wilberforce Correspondence.
                                                                               X
308 CHAP. XVI. AD. 1804. jETAT. 54.

     Mr. Wilberforce being still at Lyme, Dr. Milner, towards
the end of November, was kindly requested by John Pearson,

Esq., to take up his abode in Golden Square, during the

approaching meeting of the Board of      Longitude.
     This friendly invitation, he, with             of spending " as
                                         a promise  Pearson, " parti
much time" as he " possibly" could,
                                         with Mr.

cularly in the evenings," declined; alleging, that considering

his infirmities, he was disposed to believe, that upon the whole,

it would be most convenient, that he should fix his " head

quarters in the old place."

Dean Milner's assiduity in searching for such books as he

needed for the prosecution of the Ecclesiastical History, has

been already mentioned.

     During this visit to town, he seems to have applied to Mr.

Pearson, to assist him in procuring certain scarce volumes

which he particularly wished to consult. Mr. Pearson, after

much research, ascertained that the books in question, which,

Ias well as remember, were two scarce volumes of Luther's

Letters, were to be found in the Library at Lambeth. They

were, subsequently, sent to Cambridge, with a kind offer from the
Archbishop, of any assistance of a similar kind, which it might,

in future, be in his power to render.

The History, however, was now, for a while, of necessity,

laid aside; the approaching January bringing with it the usual

college and university business.
    A further interruption was occasioned by a new attempt to

alter the constitution of the Board of Longitude*. Concerning
this affair it is sufficient to say, that Dr. Milner exerted himself

with the energy and effect which he had formerly displayed on
a similar occasion. Some memoranda which remain, shew that

he turned his mind seriously to the subject, and took consider

able pains to arrange his thoughts concerning
                   *                                 in the most

effective manner.                                        it,
                                                                  ; of
Still, whatever might be the obstacles which interrupted his

progress, Dean Milner always considered the History                     the

Church of Christ as the great work which he had on hand and

                             See Chapter III.
CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1804. jETAT. 51.    309

he possessed a faculty, far from universal, of returning, with
unabated spirit, to his work, after every interruption, long or
short. His spirit was, doubtless, refreshed and invigorated by
the expression of good-will and affection from various Christian
friends, who, from time to time, communicated to him their

hopes and desires that his " life might be prolonged to carry

forward the great work which he had in hand but, indepen
dently of all such motives to exertion, he possessed a power
and a habit of perseverance, invaluable in themselves, and,

perhaps, rarely equalled.
     Indications of this habit appear continually in his confiden

tial letters to his friends.
     To the Rev. William Mandell*, whose election to a

Fellowship at Queen's College, he had by letter announced to
him, on the 6th of April, in this year, adding his earnest wishes
"that the event" might "tend to increase his happiness and
usefulness," he thus writes towards the end of his summer's

residence at Carlisle.

" My dear Sir,                   "Deanery, September 16, 1805.
" Many thanks for your kind inquiries and kind expressions
Iabout my health.
                    am as well as usual. All my vacant hours

shall be employed on the Ecclesiastical History, which is,

Icertainly, a valuable work. But have too many concerns to

attend to it here. At Queen's, I hope to set sail again.

"May Almighty God continue to preserve you in warmth

and zeal, for the best things ; labouring in these, will be found

the truest wisdom.
" Adieu, dear Sir, and believe me,
" Yours, most truly and sincerely, and affectionately,
                                    "Isaac Milnbr.
" To the Rev. William Mandell."

   It may be allowable, here, to mention some circumstances

which, about this time, excited great interest at Cambridge.

     * To the kindness of this gentleman, one of Dr. Wilner's most intimate and
 most esteemed friends, 1 am indebted for many valuable additions to this

volume.
310 CHAP.'XVI. A.D. 1805. jETAT. 55.

It was during the early part of the autumn of this year, that the

haunted house, or rather the house reputed to be bewitched, at

Sawston, a village near Cambridge, allured from the University

crowds of wondering and awe-struck visitors. According to

popular rumour, no person could enter, or, more correctly
speaking, could leave this cottage, -- for it was but a cottage --

without finding his garments, however strong in texture, or

however vigilant the wearer, torn or cut into shreds and

tatters.

Much excitement prevailed : for not only weak women, but

grave and learned doctors repaired to the scene of witchcraft ;

and though they went sceptics, returned believing sufferers.
     Such matters Dr. Milner delighted to investigate; he

collected evidence upon the subject, and visited in person the
enchanted cottage. The following extract from a letter gives a
detail of some of his proceedings respecting the affair in

question.

   I I" just recollect, that have but room for a word respecting

the Sawston wonder.

    " A very respectable tanner called on me, with a gown in

his pocket, all in tatters. His wife had put on five gowns in

three days, and they all fell to pieces on her back, rent into a

hundred strips. The same thing happened to the maid-servant's

gowns, and to the gowns of the woman's niece, and to the man's

great coat ; and to the gowns of many of the inhabitants of the

village where he lives ; also to the clothes of several who went

from Cambridge. The man fully believes, that a witch, who
Ilives about a mile from them, does it all.
                                                told him not to

sleep in his chair in the day-time ; and, at night, to place the

coat he had taken off, which was a sound and very good one,

under his pillow ; and to come to me, the next day, if it should

happen, after all, to be torn.                  He said it had

    " Next day he appeared with his coat rent.

happened before bed-time, and before dark ; and that nobody
had come near him. He was now ten times more confirmed

in his belief of witches. ' Is it possible,' said he, ' that any

Ione should come and tear my coat while am awake, and I not

feel nor see them ?'
           CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1805. jETAT. 55.          311

I" Upon his saying this, continued talking to him, and

while looking him in the face, tore his coat smartly; and

Ineither he, nor his friend who was close by me, saw what had

done.

   I" then showed him the rent ; and he was much surprised

and pleased, being convinced that the thing might be done.
     "Afterwards Mr. T. and myself, and little Mary, went to

Ithe house, and talked to them ; but nothing happened while

I was there : nor has anything happened since.
    " I assure you it was high time to quiet the country all

around. Such a tumult and report has not happened since the

Cock- lane Ghost of 1760.
    "The thing was done by hands, and in some places by

scissars. -I have no doubt the man's wife did it. She is a

Aveak, silly woman, who believes that she herself was bewitched,

when a child, and was made to tear her clothes.

   I" She will not own it ; and did not like to make mischief
Ibetween the man and his wife, or else doubt not but I could

soon have frightened her into an honest confession.
I" Still,
           own, she must have been most excessively dex

terous in some of the instances which are mentioned.

    I" examined several of the sufferers ; but there is reason

to believe that some persons tore their friends' clothes in joke,

and so helped the humbug.

    " The gowns were not corroded by any acids or fumes.
                                 " Yours most truly,
                                                         " I. MilNEr."

   I well remember the visit to the bewitched cottage, recorded
Iin the above letter ; remember also the wild and half crazy

look of the woman who doubtless was the perpetrator of all the

mischief; but above all, I have a vivid recollection of the
tearing of the tanner's coat. Child as I was, I had the fullest

enjoyment of that scene, which took place in Dr. Milner's

study at Queen's Lodge.

     He was seated, as usual, upon rather a high chair, behind his

large desk : a desk which, by the bye, was fixed to his library
table by one immense screw of his own making, and could, upon
312          CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1805. /ETAT. 55.

this pivot,  be turned   aside at pleasure. Before him stood the
bewildered               and "his friend," a man at that time well
             " tanner"

known at Cambridge, and esteemed rather an acute person,
being in fact no other than the late John Taylor, then Vice-

Chancellor's man. The tanner asseverated, that it was impos

sible his coat could be torn upon his back by human hands,
without his perceiving it. John Taylor argued that, alive as

his attention was, and had been from the first (for, for his part,
he was no believer in witchcraft), it was in vain to attempt to

impose upon him. Dr. Milner listened to them both; and

while listening, gave the broad cloth of the tanner's coat so
audible a tear, that nothing but the extreme eagerness of the

pre-occupied speakers could have prevented them from hearing

    and detecting the trick. It passed however, upon both
it,                                                                                 ;
      ';
and its effect, when acknowledged, was, as Dr. Milner had
                 it
intended and anticipated, highly satisfactory to the mind of the
                                       :
                                            apoor frightened tanner, relieving him as did, from his vague
                                                       it

                                                                   a
fears of supernatural agency.                                         letter of con

    A transition from the Sawston mystery to

dolence on the death of friend's daughter, may appear abrupt:

in real biography, however, as in real life, abrupt transitions must
occur and was peculiarly true of Dr. Milner, that his mind,

even in its  lightest moods, was               always  opednatteodse"riQouuseeinm'spreCssoilolengse.
             letter in question,               which   is
    In the                                                                       a

Lodge, October 4th, 1805," the Dean alludes to the recent
death of his friend Mr. Pearson's eldest daughter, young lady

of decided piety, and most tenderly beloved by her family*, in
the following terms --

    " Friends never part long,' (said good old Newton) but

when they meet again, they have to enumerate one or more

now dead, that were among the living.'

    " One may very sincerely congratulate yourself and Mrs.

Pearson, on such change as lately took place in your family
                 it a                                                               p.
because, though      is  impossible that flesh and blood should not
                                                                                           I;
feel, yet there appears to have been everything in the instance

     * For Memoir of this lady, sec Chrislian Observer, vol. iv., 514.
     a
CHAP. XVI. A.D. 1805. JETAT. 55.                   313

allude to, which could mitigate the melancholy awfulness of

such an event, and convert it into a kind and merciful dispen

sation.

   " May you and I so finish our course !

"With kind respects to Mrs. P. and the younger branches,
                " am, dear Sir, yours

          Esq., Golden Square."
I" To John                                 truly,  " I. M.

Pearson,

     Such expressions of friendly condolence were, with Dean
Milner, by no means matters of course. No man living ever

more cordially complied with the apostolic exhortation, " Weep

with them that weep."
     The meeting of the Board of Longitude in December afforded

to Dr. Milner the usual opportunity of spending a few days
with his friend Mr. Wilberforce ; and thus the year concluded.
                                                          314

                            CHAPTER XVII.

Gradual alteration in the   nature of the Examinations for Fellowships at Queen's

      College. --Letter to  the present Archbishop             of York   (then Bishop of Car
                                                               Election  for the University of
       lisle) on the Death  of his Son. --Contested
Cambridge. --Lord Falmerston.                             -- Lord Henry Petty
oLfanesadr ofworneM)u. s--icC. --orrEesxppoenrdimenecnet  with Mr. Wilberforce.    (the present Lord
                                                                                 --Dr. Milner's want
                                                          on the Subject tried   by Himself and his
Brother. --Dr. Milner's knowledge of tho Science of Music. -- Recollections
of Him by Dr. Crotch.-- Sir. La Trobe. --Dr. Jowett. --Dr. Hague. --Mr.
Aspland. --Dr. Milner's want of eye for Perspective Drawing.-- Manage
ment of tho Affairs of the University Press.--Personal Exertions. --Sir
Samuel Bomilly. -- Hobby-Horses. --Short-hand. --Arbitration. --Habits of
Life at Carlisle. --Rose Castle. --Lowther Castle. --Anecdotes. -- Serious
Occupations. --Visits to a Person under Sentence of Death.--Judicious
Treatment of the Sick and Dying. --Treatment of a Man who had at

tempted Suicide.

                            A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.

An important subject which deeply concerned the welfare of the
College which he governed, occupied Dr. Milner's mind in the
beginning of the year 1806.

     He had for some years entertained the opinion, that the
examination to which Bachelors of Arts who were candidates

for Fellowships at Queen's College, were subjected, was not
conducted on the best, or the most equitable principles : and,
according to a practice already mentioned as habitual with him,
he, during the January of this year, drew up for his own use, a
paper, containing his deliberate thoughts upon the whole

subject.
     Although at this distance of time, there would be no im

propriety in making public this elaborate performance, which
displays penetrating judgment, great candour, and much
industry, it may suffice in this place to observe, that Dr.
Milncr gradually carried into execution the views which are
laid open in the treatise in question ; and thus, without any
sudden or dangerous innovations, so modified the style of
examination for Fellowships at Queen's College, as to secure, in

each case, strict justice to the several candidates, and a due
regard to the general interests of learning and science.
                CHA.P. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 50.  315

    To the claims of private friendship Dean Milner was ever
feelingly alive. The following pious and affectionate letter,
which has been kindly placed at my disposal by the present
Archbishop of York, was written on occasion of the recent
death of one, and the dangerous illness of another of his

Grace's sons.

"My dear Bishop*,                       " Queen's College Lodge,

                                            February 4, 1806.
" You seek for your comfort in the right place. You are a

Christian, and therefore you know that 'all things work together
for good to them that love God.' This single promise, when

we are enabled to apply it to our case, never fails to be rich in
consolation. Lay hold of my dear Lord grasp firmly,--
I                                       is I
                                               ;
                         a                                         :
                                                        it
                                   it,                                     it
will not deceive you.

    " have had deal of affliction, and experience has taught

me, neither to follow nor to give, the usual worldly advice;

namely, to divert the attention from melancholy thoughts by

engaging in business and company. No! say on the contrary,
Weep, --weep freely, my Lord, for the dear youth he deserved

   well; and tears will relieve your tender heart better than
it
                   have shut my door, and weep heartily with
          :I
                I
anything else.

you while write this. The Christian no where forbidden to

shed tears only let us not sorrow as 'without hope,' and let us

take care that our tears be those of submission and resignation,

and the mind will soon arrive at even an enviable state of

patient tranquillity, with the eye fixed steadily on the prospect

of glorious immortality.
     " dare not, however, dwell on the subject any longer at
a

 I
       I

                        is

                                                              ;

                                                                                                      is
present.  admit that your loss, in being deprived of this

excellent youth, incalculable and the dispensation itself

mysterious, --yet not so mysterious as not to afford many

lessons.

    " You have been blessed, my Lord, beyond example, --have

been you are yet surrounded with blessings that are the lot of
few. But here the pen drops from my hand when reflect on
!

                                               I

* The present Archbishop of York was at this time Bishop of Carlisle.
316 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.

what may be the situation of Mr. Vernon still. I have been,

however, a good deal relieved by the accounts which Sir James

Graham and others have sent me respecting the melioration of

his situation.

   " I humbly and earnestly entreat the Father of mercies to

spare him,      so be His blessed will) to his afflicted parents,
  A
relatives, and friends.
                (if

                                 a
                                                   a

                                                                 I
    "With the most sincere sympathy for my Lady Anne's

distressed situation, and fervent prayers for her support, am,

my    deares"t  Bishop,
                Your very
                           affectionate  and  obliged  friend,
                                              " Isaac Milner."

         contested election of Member of Parliament for the

University of Cambridge in the room of Mr. Pitt, rendered the
month of February period of much excitement. An unusual

degree of interest was aroused.

     Lord Henry Petty,--the present Lord Lansdowne,--having

gained the good-will of many persons who differed from him on
general politics, by pledging himself in behalf of the abolition of
the Slave Trade, the suffrages of those who were, in the main,
agreed in principle, were divided. Dr. Milner's opinions, and
the reasons upon which they were founded, are laid open in the

two following very characteristic letters.
     These letters, which discover great shrewdness and sagacity,

are especially interesting and entertaining, as containing
highly graphic account of an electioneering visit, paid by the
late Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and as describing,
without the smallest disguise, the impression produced upon
Dr. Milner's mind, both by him and by his late colleague,

Lord Lansdowne.
      Ia

                      it
                              is
                                                                                              6,

                                                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                      a
                "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

                " Queen's College, Cambridge, February          1806,
" My dear Sir,
                                         Thursday morning.
    " The election fixed for to-morrow in the forenoon and

such number of old acquaintance keep dropping in upon me,

that  think     best to take up my pen and answer yours of

this morning, immediately upon the receipt of it.
           CHAP. XVII. A.D. 180fi. jETAT. 56.                     317

    " Independently of your several letters to me, the warmth

with which we hear from all quarters that you espouse the
cause of Lord Henry Petty, creates considerable difficulties in
the minds of several of us, who have been accustomed to look

up to you with entire confidence, both as an upright and wise

pilot in the most tempestuous seasons.

    " The effect of this present active warmth of yours has, to

my certain knowledge, secured to his Lordship some voters,
who are now far from being easy on account of the promises
they have given. In regard to myself, you have also effectually

stopped all my activity in opposition to Lord H. Petty. I

have not influenced, much less brought up from the country, a
single vote against him, though from my long residence and

number of pupils, public and private, you must be sure I have

had a number, of applications to know my wishes on this

occasion.
I"

"
But why not   vote for  him myself    ?  likely  to  be  hostile  to
In one word,  because       fear he
                                     is

some of those great constitutional principles which brought

about the Revolution in this country, and which, in my judg

ment, cannot be departed from without endangering the

WHOLE FABRIC OF BRITISH LIBERTY IN CHURCH AND STATE.

   I" must say, however, that Lord H. Petty conversed

with me very fairly and candidly on the subject of Catholic

Emancipation ; and I like him much better for openly avowing

the bias of his mind to be towards acceding to the Emancipa

tion, than if he had shuffled and evaded the question, as many

Icanvassers in his situation would have done. But still cannot

bring myself to be aiding and abetting, either directly or indi

Irectly, what I think so replete with danger : and therefore, as

know you too well to suppose you would wish me to act in

any respect contrary to my deliberate judgment, I have only
I Ito lament (as do, most poignantly) what, a few weeks ago,

should have pronounced almost impossible, viz., that a case

Ishould happen, in politics, where you and should differ mate

rially in practice.

    " But, remember, it is quite as repugnant to the principles
which I have long avowed, to vote for an enemy of the abolition
319 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.

of the Slave Trade, as it is that I should throw a single grain

into the scale of those who favour either the repeal of the Test

Act, or the emancipation of the Catholics : and as Lord Pal-

merston has not been quite so explicit on the head of the

Iabolition as could wish, or as perhaps he, or his friends, may
Ibe in the course of this day, remain, even yet, in doubt, (near

as the election  is)  whether  ;I  can conscientiously vote for him.

He has, understand, spoken decidedly as to the Test Act and
II
     Ithe emancipation business and         could, to my satisfaction,
                                            iIf
make out that he will also be for the abolition of the Slave;I
                                                   I
Trade, might, in my present state of mind, bring myself to

give him my individual vote but even that will cost me severe
                               ;                            a

pang, when reflect, that in so doing go directly contrary to     I is ;

your earnest wishes and application.                  ; I,at this moment,

    " On this point, of voting or not voting,

really do not feel competent to decide but be assured, that no

other application, nor anything else on earth, but the merits of

the question, as they appear to my judgment, will determine

me, after have got all the information can and moreover,
II
whateverIIdo, shall take most particular care to remain
                 I
unpledged for the general election, which may happen veryI
                       I
soon.
                                        by
    " do not think the real principles of the Roman Catholics

are in general, understood                  persons of rank and distinction

and so took the liberty of saying to Lord H. Petty. This

the first time that was ever not quite on your side, and

think you will forgive me, as
                            " am, dear Sir, yours most truly,

                                                "Isaac Milner."

     The affection for his friend, exhibited by Dr. Milner in the
above letter, could not, of course, influence him to act against
his judgment and conscience but could, and did, render the

performance of his duty exceedingly painful.
                               ;

                                        it
         CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. -STAT. 86,               319

         "To William Wilberforce, Esq.

                         " Queen's College, Cambridge,

" My dear Friend,        February 7, 1806.

                         Friday Evening.
"You will hate to see my letters; I am the messenger of
Isuch a number of disagreeable things. After all, know not

whether you will rejoice in the prevalence of whatever it is

that brings in Lord H. Petty. Prevalent it is, to a prodigious
         I know not indeed, whether the poll be actually
degree.

closed ; but from appearances, about two hours ago, I was told

Ithat he had more votesthan the other two  put together.
    " Last night, when    had expected to  spend a comfortable

evening at my own house, with La Trobe and Dr. Jowett, and

a young man or two, (all being engaged to come at eight o'clock,

Iand play the organ, sing, &c.,) was obliged to leave them all

to attend to visitors and electioneerers. There came in

    " 1st. Harrison of our College, and two more whom you
don't know, all Lord H. Petty's men, and all Foxites.

    " 2ndly. Then came the two Westerns, both of this College.

One is a member of the House of Commons, also a Foxite.

    "3rdly. Robert Grant came in, and was precisely in my
own situation; that is, determined against Lord H. Petty,

but not convinced that Lord Palmerston would be sound as to

the Slave Trade. But he had been talking a deal with him and

his friends, and the result was, that he thought him quite

sincere, and sufficiently decided to act upon.

    " 4thly. By and by, in came Lord Palmerston. We con

Iversed a full hour on the subject of the Slave Trade, and, can
Iassure you, a more ingenuous appearance never saw. The

young man's conscience seemed hard at work, for fear, not of

saying too little, but of saying too much ; viz., of saying more

than he could justify to his own mind, from the little considera

tion which he had given to the subject. He is but a lad, but

I could not discover the most latent hostility, or ground for

suspecting hostility ; and he must be a deceiver indeed, of a

very deep cast, if he deceives at all, in this instance.
    " In a word, all things considered and weighed over and over,
320 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1306. JETAT. 56.

and not brought to a crisis till between nine and ten this

morning, I declared for him.

"About an hour after this, came Christian, who said he had

just met Lord Clive, who had told him, that my declaration had

already got Lord Palmerston thirty-four votes. That, no doubt,

is sadly overstated ; and be it as it may, we are all in a woful

minority. But as minorities usually support themselves and

keep themselves in heart, by dwelling on their virtuous and

disinterested motives, and by getting a little together, and talk

ing against the motives of the majorities, so do we.

   "5thly. I fervently wish you may find Lord H. Petty and

Fox, &c, as true friends to the Abolition as you have reason to

suppose them. Their having been so long pledged, (at least
Fox,) may do something ; inclination may also do something ;

but where there is a want of sound and substantial principle,

men will act right no longer than they conceive that it suits

their interests on the whole.

    " You will have Socinians everywhere in the Church if not

Deists; and in the state, you will have the same, with an

inundation of low, profligate morals. Things were bad enough

Ibefore, but the bowl will, think, roll faster down the hill.

    " Smith, the Fellow-Commoner, is astonished to find that

they are drinking Fox every day in Trinity College Combina

tion Room, when, a fortnight ago, they were drinking Pitt.

                          "Yours ever,  Isaac Milner."

Such were the Dean's prophetic fears ; fears which surely

no person will now pronounce to have been altogether visionary !

     In  his Diary, now   tphaisrtleylepctuibolnish: e"d,MyMrs.udWdeilnbleyrfoprrcoemitshinusg
         in reference to
wrote,

Lord Henry Petty, (which done too hastily, partly from not

Ithinking had any interest, partly from being found in a state
of wishing to show Lord Henry how much both I and the

cause felt indebted to him,) has produced a sad degree of
***« jrufflement.Dear Dean (Milner) much hurt about it." * *

*                        received letters from Dean, volumes ; Simeon,

cum multis aim."

A few words should be said concerning the passage in which
           CHAP. XVII. A.I). 1806. /ETAT. 5(5.  321

Dr. Milner speaks of his expectation of spending " a comfort

able evening with Latrobe, Dr. Jowett, and a young man or

two," who were "engaged to come at eight o'clock, to play

upon the organ, and to sing, &c."

    It is well known that Dean Milner possessed little or no

ear for music. In this respect, he resembled his brother

Joseph, in whom, indeed, the same deficiency seems to have
Ibeen even more absolute.
                           have heard the Dean relate, with

much glee, that his brother and himself, being well aware

that a defect of musical ear was imputed to them, and being

at the same time very sensible that they certainly never had

received any such pleasure from listening to melody or har

mony, as many of their acquaintance professed to experience,

nevertheless flattered themselves, that the peculiarity might be

explained by the fact, that they really had never heard any

truly good music. While in this mood of mind, chance threw

into their way an advertisement setting forth, that TJie Messiah,

the greatest work of the immortal Handel, &c, &c, was about

to be performed, in an unusually efficient manner, at Beverley,
a town about nine miles from Hull. To Beverley, therefore,

they resolved to repair; determined to put the matter to

the test.

They arrived, and took their seats in the Minster; the

confused clangour of tuning was hushed, the conductor, an

important-looking person, with a large roll of paper in his

hand, gave the authoritative signal, and the overture to the
                    " It was no place," continued Dr.
Messiah commenced.

Milner, "for talking, but we turned round and looked at one

another and shook our heads ; we were satisfied. This, as we

were given to understand, was first-rate music ; alas ! alas ! to

us, it was all alike. We staid but a little while."

This matter, however, deserves to be treated a little more

seriously.

    Deficient as Dean Milner unquestionably was in the sixth
sense called ear, so deficient, that in a conversation which he
once held with his friend Sir William Wynne, both the inter
locutors gravely expressed their doubts whether any singer
could be quite certain of repeating the same melody twice ; he
322 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

was, nevertheless, by no means insensible to the exciting power

of music. The anecdote which I have just quoted, as related

by himself, may seem, perhaps, to prove the contrary ; yet the
Itruth was, certainly,
                      as have stated it: and
tunate occasion, the
                       performance had opened
a                                                                           on  that unfor
                                                                         with
         I is                                                                   " For unto
                                                                        a
                                                                   if,

                                                  I
us child         born," or " Hallelujah," he would, beyond all

doubt, have felt much more than many pretender to musical

enthusiasm.      have myself seen him most powerfully affected

by the singing of the late Mr. Bartleman; and have heard

him speak with intense admiration of the performance of Mara.

He used to say that when she sang the sublime solo " Sing ye

to the Lord, for He has triumphed gloriously, &c," which intro

duces the chorus of "The Lord shall reign," she wanted but

the timbrel in her hand to be Miriam herself.

    All this indeed, scarcely accounts either for his occasionally

inviting, to his Lodge, music-loving friends, or for his frequently

attending the musical parties on somewhat larger scale, givena

by his friend Dr. Jowett, in the Combination Room at Trinity

Hall.

His principal motive, on such occasions, besides the

benevolent pleasure which he always felt in seeing his friends
entertained to their satisfaction, was, doubtless, kindness to the
"little Mary" who lived with him, whose presence at these
little reunions, he justly considered highly conducive to her

advantage.

       well remember the method which, sensible of his inability
I

    I
            I

                                    a
                                         a
to judge for himself, he adopted in order to determine whether

possessed such natural ear for music as to render worth
                                               iIf I
while that should be instructed in it. With his characteristic
                                                                         ; it
good sense, he took plain road to his object. He invited to
                                                                             It I,
Queen's Lodge one evening, certain gentlemen, concerning

whose musical talents no doubt could exist. Among them
were Mr. Latrobe, Dr. Jowett, Dr. Hague, at that time Pro

fessor of Music in the University, and, think, Mr. Aspland

of Pc mbroke. These gentlemen were to play and sing and

  rl.il between six and seven years of age, was to listen.
hi b:cn previously concerted that the performers were to
Ja
              1

m:ika ccitain false concords, which,           heard without exhi
CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.                323

Ibiting any uneasiness, was to be pronounced incapable of
profiting by musical instruction. If, on the other hand, I
Idetected the voluntary errors which were to be committed,

was to be considered capable of improvement, and to be treated

accordingly.

   I remember, as if it were but yesterday, Dr. Milner's

evident satisfaction at the result of my trial.
    The scientific part of music was, about this period of Dr.

Milner's life, one of his favourite studies. He collected all the

most valuable, as well as many scarce books upon the science,
in French as well as in English, and certainly made himself

thoroughly master of the theoretical part of the subject, in
fact, of all that could be mastered without a natural capability
of accurately distinguishing sounds.

The following extract from a letter lately written by a

highly esteemed friend of Dr.   Milner, may  here be properly
                               most happy,"  writes Dr. Crotch,
Iinserted. " should have been

"to have furnished you with any letters of your beloved

Iuncle, had been fortunate enough to possess any. But it

may not be amiss generally to assert, that he used frequently

to ask the opinions of Dr. Jowett, and of Hague and myself

when we were boys, concerning harmonies and other pheno
mena of sounds -- that he tried experiments with humming tops;

and that, though not possessed of musical ear, he was very

curious to inquire how different basses might be put to the

same treble, or the reverse."

It may appear surprising that Dr. Milner should have

selected, for voluntary study, a science, in the pursuit of which

nature had placed in his way an impassable barrier ; but it is

possible that the consciousness of such an obstacle had the

effect of stimulating his exertions. Certain it is, that he often

persecuted his musical friends to supply him with reasons for

particular laws of composition, which, in fact, depended upon

the natural faculty in which he was deficient. "Why," he
would say to Mr. Latrobe, or to Dr. Hague, " is the use of

consecutive fifths forbidden ?" The answer would be, "Because

they grate against my soul;" the reply was, of course, far from

satisfactory; and, on one occasion, I well recollect that Mr.

                                             V2
324 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

Latrobe appended to it an assertion which furnished the querist

with a handle for some good-humoured triumph. Having said

<; They grate against my soul," Mr. Latrobe unwarily added,

"and octaves are as bad." Dr. Hague, who was present,

rather imprudently "rose to explain," stating that there were

cases in which, as every musician knows, octaves are not bad
at all. The seeming discrepance of opinion delighted Dr.

Milner, and often did he afterwards allude to this proof, as he

a

                     it,
                                   is a

                                                aI
professed to consider    of the uncertainty of the musical code.

It may here be observed, that as Dean Milner was deficient

in an ear for sounds, so was he likewise, to a certain degree,

and in corresponding manner, in an eye for form.             have

seen him shed tears while contemplating a head of Christ,
crowned with thorns, by one of the great masters --yet per

spective view, for instance, of cube, conveyed to him no idea

whatever of the solid intended to be represented.

Perhaps an eye for form seldom found disunited from an

ear for musical sounds.

This spring was, with Dr. Milner, an unusually busy season.

As one of three persons who were appointed to examine and

arrange the complex affairs of the University Press, he had

paid particular attention to the duties which devolved upon

him. His brother syndics, well aware, like all who knew him,
of his vigilance and energy in such matters, actually left to him

the chief part of the business and the Senate would willingly
a
               ahave avowedly so left the whole management and direction of
it. This, however, he was far from desiring; but not from
                                is,
                                                         a;
indolence, or an indisposition to vigorous exertion. To the

Vice-Chancellor for the year 1805-6 (Dr. Turner), he addressed

written communication in which, not only his opinions con

cerning the proper management of the affairs of the University

Press are fully developed, but the various documents upon

which those opinions were founded, are arranged in detail, and

in order, and an index made for convenience of reference.

This manuscript        in fact, folio volume, and must always

remain monument of the acuteness, candour, industry, and

energy of the writer.

To the trouble and inconvenience which Dr. Milner under
CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.  325

went, with the view of making himself thoroughly master of

the invention of stereotype printing, I can bear witness. He

used to spend hours together in the printing-office, which was
near his own Lodge; and, like Peter the Great in the ship
builder's yard at Amsterdam, actually put his own hand to the
work, making attempt after attempt, till he succeeded in pro
ducing a perfect stereotype plate of his own individual manu

facture. It may be said, and perhaps with truth, that his

personal exertions of this kind were sufficiently accounted for
by his love of practical mechanics ; no such cause, however, can

explain his regular attendance, during a considerable period of
time, at the meetings of the syndics of the press, -- an attendance
which, as the meetings in question took place, for the most
part, in the winter evenings, required a species of effort quite

foreign to his habits.

     Dr. Milner was also engaged during this spring in a corre
spondence with the Solicitor-General, the late amiable and

unhappy Sir Samuel Romilly.
     Up to this time he had enjoyed no further personal

acquaintance with Sir Samuel, than what resulted from his
"having," as he says in one of his letters, "had the good

fortune, many years ago, to be introduced to" him, " at a dinner
at Mr. Wilberforce's, when Lord Eldon was one of the com
pany," and when he, (Dr. Milner,) " passed a most agreeable

and instructive afternoon."

     So high, however, was his estimate of Sir S. Romilly's
"talents and knowledge," that he declares himself to "have
felt a most pressing desire to have" his "opinion respect
ing the construction of certain passages in the statutes" of

Queen's College, " in preference to that of any other counsel

whatever."

    In the midst of his multifarious occupations, Dr. Milner
found time to indulge himself in " hobby-horses," new as well
as old. A new one, this spring, was the study of short-hand,

Iwhich he certainly learned to write, though not, think, to

read, with considerable facility. The misfortune was, that
having made himself tolerably well acquainted with one system,

I" Annett's," believe it was, he happened to hear of another,
326 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

which was said to have superior claims to attention and
adoption, and the confusion thus arising prevented him from

becoming an adept in the use of either. He acquired, however,

short-hand enough to be serviceable, as a sort of cipher, when

he wished to make a private memorandum, or a note in the

margin of a book.
     Other matters there were, of comparatively little moment,

concerning which Dr. Milner, when the fancy struck him, occu
pied himself con amore; but some readers may, perhaps, think
that enough has been already said here and in other parts of

this work, upon what are, confessedly, comparatively, trifling

subjects. It may, however, be fairly suggested, in mitigation

of censure, that a character can scarcely be allowed to be faith
fully delineated, if all the little oddities and peculiarities which

             be either sedulously kept out of sight, or mate
distinguish  it,
                               a
rially curtailed of their due proportion on the canvas.

The arbitration of disputed point in an agreement relative

to the Lady Margaret's Professorship of Divinity, between the

Rev. Mr. (afterwards Dr.) Marsh, and the Rev. James Fawcett
of St. John's College, Dean Milner being fixed upon as umpire

by both parties, and another journey to London, filled up the
interval till the second week in June, the accustomed time of

the summer chapter at Carlisle.

     Notwithstanding the exertion of preaching almost every
Sunday in the Cathedral, surely very considerable effort, the
precarious state of his health being taken into the account, the
                                  it a

                                                          a
                                                                                             a
Dean always regarded his summer's residence at Carlisle, after

the chapter business was concluded, as, to certain degree,

period of relaxation; nor can be doubted, that the partial

cessation from laborious employment which he there annually

allowed himself, tended to mitigate his constitutional complaints

and to prolong his life. At Carlisle, also, he entered more

freely into general society than he was accustomed to do at

Cambridge, occcasionally visiting, or, in his turn, entertaining

at the Deanery, some of the neighbouring county families,
among whom, as indeed among all who knew him, his rich

conversational powers caused his society to be sought for with

avidity.
         CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.            327

      Perhaps one of his greatest pleasures was to spend occasion
ally a few quiet days at Rose Castle, the beautiful residence of
the Bishop of Carlisle, with his friend, the present Archbishop

of York. The mode of living there was exactly such as suited
his taste. There was no pomp, no oppressive style. He used
to saunter about the meadows and the hay-fields while engaged
in conversation with his host, and as he more than once told
his friend after he became an archbishop, liked the simplicity
of Rose Castle a great deal better than the splendour of Bishop-

thorpe.
     Sometimes, though less frequently, he ventured upon an

excursion somewhat more distant, and joined the splendid circle

whom Lord Lonsdale's hospitality often collected around him

at Lowther Castle. Ill-health, however, frequently obliged him

to decline his Lordship's kind invitations, " since," as he writes

from Rose Castle, in answer to one of them, on the 6th of
                        " like weak                   he was " often
August   in this year,   his " plans  governments,"
obliged  to regulate"                                 rather than by
                                       by, incidents

system."
     During one of his visits at Lowther, before the present

magnificent castle was finished, and while the family occu
pied a smaller habitation, a circumstance occurred strongly
characteristic of the persevering turn of Dean Milner's

mind.

One evening some of the younger branches of the family

were amusing themselves by playing at draughts : the Dean,
always fond of the society of young persons, and disposed to
interest himself in their pursuits, undertook to shew them how,
by a certain method of play, they might generally be sure of

victory.
     On trial, however, it appeared, that his memory, for once,

had failed him ; he could not fulfil his promise, and shewed, in

consequence, some slight marks of chagrin. In due time, all

parties retired for the night, and no more was said, or, appa
rently, thought of the draught-board.

     The next morning it happened that Lord Lonsdale had
occasion to go out unusually early. He passed through the

hall, from- which a door opened into the apartment which had
32S CTIAI\ XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

been occupied on the preceding evening, which apartment the
house-maids were still employed in arranging. What was his

Lordship's surprise, on looking into the room, to discover Dean
Milner, seated in a quiet corner, in his dressing-gown and black
velvet cap, with the draught-board before him, solving, at his

ease, the problem which had puzzled him the evening before !

It is scarcely necessary to add, that he was ready, by breakfast

time, to redeem the promise of the preceding night.

Other characteristic anecdotes connected with the Dean's

visits at Lowther Castle might be related. For instance, he
once met there the late Bishop of Llandaff, Dr. Watson, who,

in his capacity of Professor of Divinity, had, many years
before, presided in the Schools when Dr. Milner and Dr.

Coulthurst kept the Act which the Bishop had distinguished

by his signal approbation, pronouncing the disputants to be

"Arcades ambo*." It so chanced, that one day after dinner,

at Lord Lonsdale's table, Dr. Southey and other persons of
note being present, this Act became the subject of conversation,

and a discussion arose between the Bishop and the Dean, on

some point connected with it. Dr. Milner, quite at his ease,

and in perfect good humour, had the best of the argument; or,

at least, carried the company along with him. Dr. Watson, on

the other hand, who was in the habit of talking for effect, and

who treated the matter with the utmost gravity, became

annoyed at his own failure, and at length showed symptoms of
being on the very point of losing his temper. At this juncture,

the Dean, who had a strong sense of the ludicrous and very

little compassion for vexations occasioned by want of temper,

whoever might be the sufferer, completed the discomfiture of

his solemn antagonist, by exclaiming jocosely, in his usual

sonorous tones, " Now, Bishop, will you take the other side,

and we'll argue it over again ?" The whole scene was felt by

all who witnessedit       and who understood and perceived the
                     it,
imposing character and manners of the stately Bishop of

Llandaff, to be exquisitely comic; but like most other instances

of real humour, depended so much upon " time, place, and

                          Vide Chapter III.
CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.                         329

circumstance," that it is scarcely possible to convey, by descrip

tion, an adequate idea of it.

In whatever company he might be, it is certainly true that

Dr. Milner usually was what he    was often emphatically  declared
to be, " the life of the party."    Notwithstanding his   frequent

attacks of bodily suffering, he. was constitutionally gay ; in fact,

so blithe and frolicsome were his spirits during the intervals in

which he enjoyed a moderate share of health, and so entirely

free was he, at all times, from the slightest shade of affected

gravity, that, by persons of a more severe turn of mind, or of

less natural cheerfulness, he was sometimes thought to be in

danger of overstepping the line which separates innocent
gaiety from culpable levity. Of this tendency to mirth he

was himself as well aware as the most vigilant of those who

might be disposed to censure his indulgence of it; but he

had no artificial character to support. Consequently, while

his genuine religious principle effectually and necessarily with
held him from excessive or indecorous merriment, he fre

quently and fearlessly gave the   reins to the lively  t"empproedraigmaelintty
with which he was undoubtedly     gifted in the very

of nature."

    These remarks may serve as apology, if any be deemed

requisite, for Dean Milner's conduct on an occasion about to

be mentioned. It should be premised that it was his settled

habit to endeavour to glean from every person who fell in his

way some portion of the particular knowledge, whatever it

might be, which that person was supposed to possess. There

fore, being in company at Lowther with a nobleman who

professed great skill as a boxer, he contrived to turn the con

versation upon the art, or science, of self-defence. Lord A
H strenuously maintained that a scientific pugilist could

not, by any possibility, be struck by an uninstructed antagonist ;
that his skill would enable him to ward off any blow not dealt

to him by a brother of the craft. The Dean disputed this

position; the company became interested and the discussion
animated ; experiment only could decide the point. In order,
therefore, to bring the matter to the test, Dr. Milner arose

from his seat, and, walking into the middle of the apartment,
330 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

coolly said, " Now, my Lord, if you will only promise not to

Istrike me, I think, that in spite of any guard you can keep,

can strike you." " Impossihle," &c, &c, exclaimed Lord
A H . They stood up accordingly, and, " within less

than thirty seconds," said Dean Milner, with great triumph,

Iwhen he afterwards related the circumstance, " gave him, with

my open hand, such a slap on the face as rang again through
the large room." The company, of course, laughed heartily,

and Lord A H said no more on the subject of boxing ;

but so irresistible was the influence of the Dean's good humour,
that it was impossible even for a man in his Lordship's
circumstances to be angry with him.

     On one occasion, while staying at Lowther Castle, Dr. Milner
proved --what indeed stood in little need of proof--his extra
ordinary power of voice. He was walking on the terrace with

several other persons, the Bishop of Llandaff, I think, amongst

others, when a labourer being visible at a considerable distance
in the fields below, it was determined that they should try who
among them could speak loud enough to make him hear.
They tried in turn, each addressing the unconscious agriculturist
in the most sonorous words which presented themselves. Dean
Milner spoke last ; and on his exclaiming in his full and round
tones, "Turn, charge, and conquer," the man instantly turned,

and gave signs of attention. If the Dean felt any degree of

self-complacency on the score of any of his personal advantages,
it was with regard to his magnificent voice and his skill in

using it; and he certainly sometimes told this anecdote with

evident satisfaction.

     The anecdote above related, respecting the game of draughts,

may properly introduce some recollections with which I have

been favoured by a surviving intimate friend of Dean Milner*,

"Iand which strikingly illustrate the same turn of mind.

remember, as if it were yesterday," writes this gentleman,
"being once engaged with your uncle in some mathematical
process -- the summation of a series, or possibly something
connected with the Binomial Theorem -- at any rate something

                                    * Colonel T. P. Thompson.
            CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.                  331

which he was going to show me, and which ought to have come
Iout neat.
            was put on it first, and failed, through some

mistake in a sign, or similar slight cause. He took it in hand
Inext, and failed also.  recollect his sharp, ' Ha !' two or three

times, as he turned the thing impatiently over; and when at last
he got to the right result he exclaimed, ' There, you dog !' giving

me, at the same time, a wipe with the pen across the face, in the

way of triumph at the conclusion -- an action which I have often

recollected as explanatory of a similar one said to have been

performed by Cromwell at the moment when he signed the

death-warrant of Charles Stuart.

   "I recollect another circumstance with which this story

of 'the Cromwellian wipe' would fit very well. Your uncle

wanted the proportion of the diameter of a circle to the circum

ference, or at least one of the practical approximations to    it it,

and saw him writing figures and drawing perpendicular line
|I                   iIt
                                                            a
through them, with an appearance of impatience at the thingis

not answering at once; and at last he burst out, 'There

is; one, one, two, two, three, three, and cut them in half,

112 233; there's a bit of artificial memory for you, sir.'

You may depend upon       never forgot the proportion of the

diameter to the circumference from that day to this."

    It superfluous to say, that Dean Milner's summer habits

of innocent and salutary relaxation were perfectly consistent

with much useful occupation and serious study. During this

particular summer, he collected, or at least ascertained where

and how he might obtain,  vast mass of materials for the
                          a
                                              a
carrying forward of the Ecclesiastical History. This appears
from numerous marginal notes, critical, historical, &c, in his

handwriting, interspersed throughout printed copy of the
fourth volume of the History, and from other manuscripts,
some of considerable length, and exhibiting much labour and

research.

One other subject connected with this summer's residence

at Carlisle, remains to be mentioned.

    A man had been tried at the assizes for forgery, then a

capital crime; he was found guilty, condemned, and left for

execution. Those persons who are but imperfectly acquainted
332 CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1893. /ETAT. 56.                             is,

Awith the character of Dean Milner, may perhaps be surprised
                    ifto hear, that the case of this poor man occasioned him so much
concern, that he determined to visit him personally in his con
                                                 ;
Idemned cell. On more than one of those visits accompanie d

him, and the impression left upon my mind has never been

effaced.

    I shall never forget the Dean's extreme tenderness and

delicacy in his conversations with the unhappy culprit. He
laid open to him, in the simplest manner, the great doctrines of
revelation, the fall of man, the universal necessity of conversion
and regeneration, the vicarious sacrifice of the Redeemer, and
the power of the Holy Ghost to renew the heart of the believing
and repentant sinner, and to render him fit for heaven ; but all
this without any especial reference to the particular crime for
which his auditor was condemned to suffer. He spoke to him
of his approaching death, not of his approaching execution;
and, in short, endeavoured to humble him in his own sight, as a
sinner before God, and to fix his thoughts upon that "Lamb of
God, which taketh away the sin of the world," without distracting
his mind by earthly considerations.

    What the effect was, I know not ; for the forger was most

unexpectedly reprieved : but if ever a condemned felon were
judiciously treated by his spiritual adviser, that culprit was

the man !

     Dean Milner has probably seldom been even thought of in
the character of a visitor of the sick and dying ; yet the truth
that he possessed, the word may be permitted, extraordinary
tact in that capacity.

     A case which occurred at Cambridge during the spring of

the year 1806, may be mentioned in support of this assertion.
           young man, whose connections were known to Dr.

 Milner, attempted suicide in fact, cut his throat so effectually
 that his life was in the most imminent danger. This occurred

 during the night; no medical advice was immediately to be
 procured, and before daybreak the disconsolate family sent to
 request the attendance of Dean Milner, rather as a medical,
 than as a spiritual adviser. The Dean of course obeyed the
 call and during that visit and some subsequent ones, attended
;
CHAP. XVII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.  333

 only to the physical condition of the sufferer. Afterwards,
when the danger of death was past, he assumed his clerical
character. Of the precise nature, or the ultimate consequences

Iof his addresses to the unhappy man, cannot speak. The

immediate effect was notorious : the poor youth became so
grateful, and so much attached to his spiritual instructor, that
he would suffer no one else to minister even to his bodily
wants ; and it is a fact, that for a considerable time, his medi

cines were administered, and even the dressings upon his throat

arranged, by Dr. Milner's own hand.
                334

                        CHAPTER XVIII.

History of the Church. --Third "Volume translated into German. --Translation of
       Joseph Milner's Sermons into German. --Letter to the Bishop of Meath. --
       Visit to Cambridge of the Chancellor of the University. -- Professor
       Porson. --University Press. -- Rev. T. Thomason. -- Professor Smyth.-- Dr.
       Milner's Sermon at St. Mary's against Catholic Emancipation. --Consistency
       of Character. --Address to the King. -- General Election. -- Busy Chapter
       at Carlisle.-- Musical Festival. --Thoughts respecting Preaching. -- Private
       Reflections. --Rev. Christian Ignatius Latrobc. --Musical Society at Cam
      bridge. --Dr. Jowett's Musical Parties. -- Discussion concerning certain
      disputed points of Chronology. --Correspondence. -- Governorship of Sierra
      Leone. -- Second Volume of Joseph Milner's Sermotis. --Fifth Volume "of
       Ecclesiastical History. --Board of Longitude. -- Carlisle.--Correspondence. --
       Assize Sermon.--Dr. Buchanan.--Dean Milner's Sentiments respecting
       Races and Theatrical Representations. --Letter on the proposed erection
      of a Theatre. --Advice respecting College Lectures. -- Reading Lamp. --Dr.
       Edward Daniel Clarke. --New Edition of Milner's Works. -- Kensington
       Gore. -- Rev. Thomas Kerrich. --Social Intercourse. --Evening Visits from
       Old Friends.

                                 A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.

Once again established in his Lodge, Dr. Milner's principal
object was the continuation of the History of the Church of

Christ.

    A foreign clergyman, personally unknown to him, had sent

him, with a copy of the third volume of that History translated
into German, the following interesting letter.

" To the Rev. Dr. Milner, Dean of Carlisle, and
      Master of Queen's College, Cambridge.

"Reverend Sir,       "Herrnhut, 1806.
I"Your kind letter of January 18th, received with inex

pressible satisfaction.

    " You may be assured that the translation is extensively

read, not only in Germany, (even in some popish parts,) but
also in Switzerland, Prussia, Livonia, Holland, Denmark, and

Sweden; and, very likely, the German translation will be fol

lowed by a Swedish one. I have had to answer several queries

from Stockholm, respecting the work and its author. His Life
             CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. jETAT. 56.  335

will be prefixed to the fourth volume, according to a desire

intimated to me from many quarters.

"Indeed, this eminent servant of God, 'though dead, yet
Ispeaketh.'
             have spoken with two persons who had read the

first volume in Greenland, and with another who had perused it
Iupon the banks of the Wolga.
                               wish you may find, in this

information, an additional spur to go on with diligence.

   I" Now beg leave to lay some particulars before you.
   " 1. I have had some obscure information of the second

and third volumes having gone through a second edition, with
Ifconsiderable amendments.
                            so, please to favour me with a

copy for the benefit of my translations. The amendments may

be introduced by way of Appendix.

   " 2. I wish likewise to have the other printed writings of
Iyour late brother.
                     shall peruse them with an eye towards a

translation.

    " 3. The sermons of your late brother gave me so much

Isatisfaction, that have already finished a translation of them,

and have offered them to be printed. But my bookseller is

doubtful; the sale of sermons being, in Germany, generally a

very heavy thing. Now if any bookseller, or a number of
booksellers in England, could be prevailed upon to subscribe

50/. for two hundred copies, or 70/. for three hundred copies,

or 80/. for four hundred, the difficulty would be removed, and

much good might be done. There are many Germans in

London who might be inclined to purchase the book. Besides,

there are societies who distribute good books, gratis, and perhaps

they have little or no store for the many Germans in their neigh

bourhood. If any of those societies, or any rich individuals,

should be inclined, particularly for the benefit of the many

German soldiers now in England, to subscribe for a considerable

Inumber, would, for that purpose, contrive to get the printing

so done, that every sermon should be a sheet of itself ; so that

they might give away the whole, or the parts, just as they

pleased. Methinks, this would be a plan of very extensive

Iusefulness. May beg you to propose it to those societies ?
IAs soon as receive a favourable answer, (which I wish may

be as soon as possible) the printing will immediately begin.
336 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

I"4. As you are writing the history of the Reformation,

cannot help mentioning a circumstance which strikingly marks

the spirit of those times, though very little known. I live in a

province where there are many Vandals, who speak a language

as different from the German as Welsh is from English. It is

a dialect of the Sclavonian. Mr. Latrobe has often heard their

jargon. These people have, wherever they meet one another, a
certain salutation, which they only use on Sundays and holi

days. If they meet before sermon, they say ' Welcome to
God's word;' if after sermon, ' Welcome from God's word.'

This custom, which is universal throughout the whole nation,

dates from the time of the Reformation. Before that period

they never had any preaching in their language; their priests

being all Germans, and their whole religion consisting in cere

monies and processions. About the year 1521, evangelical

preaching took place in their language, and was received so

eagerly, that it gave rise to that singular custom. Indeed, it is

now only a matter of form, but methinks it is evident, that it

was then something more. There was, at that time, a remark

able work of God among that nation, of which I could give you

some  more  par"ticIualamrs,,   if you desire  it.

                               Reverend Sir,
                               " Your most obedient humble servant,
                                                    " Peter Mortimer."

     To this letter Dr. Milner, who was always much gratified by
the notice of strangers whom he had reason to think men of

piety, returned the following warm-hearted answer.

"Rev. and dear Sir,                  " Queen's College, Cambridge,

   "I cannot express the                          October 24, 1806.
                               satisfaction which your kind and

valuable letter has afforded me. My very numerous avocations

would not have prevented me from noticing the contents of it

Ias they deserve, much sooner; but am frequently so much

out of health as to be compelled to relax from my studies, in a

Idegree, or else should soon be unable to attend to them at all.

    " 1. This circumstance is to account for my not having yet

finished Volume V.
               CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 5f.                  337

" 2. The same circumstance will account for the second and

third volumes being not yet republished with corrections.

    "The republication of them has been promised to the

public, but the promise is not yet fulfilled. The new edition,
as well as Volume V., will be out as soon as ever I can finish
IIfthem.
       my health were at all to be depended on, should
Isay in the course of next spring; but have often been admo

nished to be cautious in promises.
I" have, however, now great hopes of getting fast forward.
I" will not fail to send you the books all together, along
Iwith such other of the author's writings as judge you would
                        I can
wish to have,  and as          pick  up.         or  richer, than  any of
                        be as  rich  in matter,
    " Volume   V. will

the foregoing parts.

   I" 3. have been in the north of England for four months,
Iand have seen so few people, that have yet had no opportunity

to try what can be done with any of those societies you speak

of, respecting the publication of the sermons of my brother
in German, which you have been so good as to translate. But

Ilest that important matter should be delayed any longer, (and
Iam very sorry it has been delayed at all,) will answer to you,

through Mr. Latrobe, for fifty pounds, to be paid, as you

Imention, for two hundred copies : and will also try whether
Iwe cannot get the order increased. However, so far answer

for, be it as it may.

   I" 4. have to return you my most sincere thanks for the

Ivery handsome copy of your German edition of the third
volume of the Church History.        can hardly mention any

event which would have given greater satisfaction to the author

had he been alive. The propagation of the true Gospel of

Christ, and its efficacy in reclaiming sinners to the service of

God and making them fit for heaven, were objects which had

been,  for many years,  close to his heart.      God's word,'  is a very
       5. The anecdote   of ' Welcome to
    "

Istriking one, and will not neglect to mention it in its proper
Iplace. Moreover, would be very much obliged to you for

more particulars, with which you say you can furnish me, and

the sooner the better.
338 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. /ETAT. 56.

   I" Don't pay any regard to the expense of postage ; shall

think myself well repaid by your communications, be they ever

so slight.

    " Little matters often prove a great deal. The instance yon

Ihave given me is a very decisive one of that sort. ' Welcome

to God's word,' had a meaning of a very significant kind, doubt

not, when it came from the heart. It is my prayer, that there

may be a revival of practical Christianity throughout Europe ;

as I verily believe, that nothing short of that will cure our

present dreadful evils, as well as those still more dreadful,

Iwhic"h6.appehaarvetouhnadnegrstoovoedr,  us.     there  is  likely to be soon, in
                                            that

Germany, a new edition of all Luther's works. Is this so ?

   "If there be a Latin translation of these, more full than

the Wittenberg, or the Jene edition, which I have, I would

thank you to purchase a copy for me.
     I I"
        7-
     would also, if                       am not too troublesome, give you a

commission to send me any of the valuable writers on Religion,
the history of it--Histories of the Reformation, &c, &c, in
ILatin, or
                      do not read
    " You             be afraid as
     French ;                                     German.        if you meet with
     need not                                     to the price,

real good stuff.

    " May Almighty God be pleased to bless your useful labours,

and  to prosper  you  in  all"tYhionugsr,       to his glory.
                                               affectionate servant,
                                                                      dear Sir,
                                                                 " I. Milner.
'* To the Rev. Mr. Mortimer."

     Laborious as Dean Milner actually was, he was apt, like his

deceased brother, and like all persons of very active mind, to

accuse himself of indolence. With reference to this subject, he

makes the following remarks, in a letter dated during this month

of  October,  1806.'
               midst
    " In the          of  my              own  concerns,     which are sufficiently

Inumerous, and often far from being pleasant, can assure you,

Ithat very often think of you, and run over, in my mind, a

variety of scenes that have passed between us: and, to own the

truth, it generally happens, that in reviewing many of the old

scenes to which I allude, I see reason to be mortified with
           CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. JETAT, 56.      339

Ihaving neglected to perform many things which had projected
Ias things to be done, and which could scarcely have believed

would have been so long left undone, had any body pretended

Ito predict the event. All this is, suppose, what happens to a

very great part of mankind, as well as to myself, and, perhaps,
to you. The misfortune is, we are constantly supposing, that
there is something or other peculiar in our own cases, which

has prevented us from putting into execution the good plans we

had devised; and so we fabricate excuses, from day to day. In

my own case, very indifferent health has certainly clipped my
wings, and laid a cold hand on many of my schemes. Nor is

Ithis, by any means, an imaginary excuse : but, of late years,
have learned, I think, to see further into this matter, and to be

convinced, that even infirmities, when properly managed, may

become a source of industry and exertion. For, I believe, we

fail, much more, through an erroneous or indolent application
of our faculties, than we do through a real want of powers, or
opportunities."

     The observations upon the peculiar dangers attendant upon
the academical career of young men, and upon the importance
of judicious home education, in early life, contained in the
following letter to the late Bishop of Meath, will be read with

much interest.

"To the Right Honourable and Right Reverend the
           Lord Bishop of Meath.

"My Lord,  " Queen's Lodge, Cambridge,

                   November 13, 1806.
" Your Lordship's observations in the obliging letter with

which you have favoured me, are judicious and truly Christian ;

neither does there appear in them any more anxiety than what

strictly belongs to so interesting a case. A very fine youth

indeed, in all respects, just launching into the world, at a

critical period of life, and among numerous examples of dissi

pation and extravagance -- add to this, an only son--assuredly

here is enough to excite apprehension; as there always is,

where there is much to lose, and also much to expect.

   I"As would prove myself grateful for the favourable judg

                                               Z2
340 CHAI\ XVIII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

ment which you have formed of Queen's College, and its regu
Ilations,
           shall feel bound in duty to endeavour, as much as

poss"ibAlef,tetro   answer your expectations.   of Mr.  S.,  it  must  be
                   what your Lordship has seen
Iunnecessary for me to repeat (what expressed pretty confi

dently to Dr. It.) how fortunate your Lordship has been in

meeting with a gentleman so excellently qualified as he is, to

"Isuperintend the education of your son.
             have almost always found, that the greatest danger

attends the commencement of the academical life, when generous

and open-hearted youths are apt to form both too many
connexions, and too hastily. However, Mr. S. and myself are

so perfectly awake to this circumstance, that we shall not fail to

Isuggest the necessary cautions.

    " venture to predict, that, in regard to discipline, we shall

have no difficulties whatever ; for these very seldom arise except

where previous defects at home, have laid a foundation for future

irregularities.

     "That the blessing of God may attend your truly laudable

exertions as a bishop, and your pious and Christian views as a

parent, is the hope and prayer of your Lordship's faithful

servant,

                                                "Isaac Milner."

    In the course of the month of December, in this year, the

Duke of Grafton, Chancellor of the University, paid a visit to
Cambridge, taking up his abode at Trinity Lodge. During his
Grace's stay, Mr. Tomline, son of the Bishop of Lincoln,
pronounced a eulogy on Mr. Pitt, in the Chapel of Trinity
College, before a large concourse of auditors. The following

complimentary communication must have been highly gratifying
to the youthful speaker.

" Dear Sir,        used   " Queen's Lodge, December 19, 1806.
    " Though much
                         to suffer mortification through indis

position, my disappointment has not often been greater than it

was the other day, on not being able to be present at the very
Iinteresting scene in Trinity Chapel.
                                                caught a very severe
         CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.              341

cold during last week, in London*, which cold was still further

increased by my journey thence, last Monday, insomuch that

I have been completely confined since that time.

    " The Duke of Grafton and Dr. Mansel were so good as to

I Icall upon me yesterday ; and from them, as well as from many

others, learnt how much had lost, (I will not say by being

absent from the splendid dinners and company, on Tuesday

and Wednesday, at Trinity College; but) by not hearing you

deliver  your eulogium.  obliged  to you  for  the copy  of it with
         am very much
   "I
Iwhich you have been so good as to favour me ; though, own,

it brings afresh to my mind the observation of ^Eschines to the
admirers of the famous oration of Demosthenes, ' What would

you have said if you had heard him deliver it ?'
" May everything attend you that is great and good !
                              " I am, dear Sir,
                                  " Yours faithfully,
" To Mr. Tomline."                               " Isaac Milner.

I have never yet mentioned Dr. Milner's intimacy with
IProfessor Porson.
                    recollect no appearances of this intimacy

subsequent to the year 1806 ; but during the two or three

Iprevious years, well remember the frequent evening visits of

Porson to Dr. Milner's study. He used to sit in the right-hand

corner of the well-curtained sofa, by the fire ; and his habits

being but too well known, he was always, without any order
given to that effect, accommodated, by the servant in atten

dance, with a jug of malt liquor, that being the beverage which

he was understood to prefer.

The conversation, on these occasions, often turned upon

Greek literature, but not exactly in the way that might

naturally be supposed.
     To his brother's Observations on Sir Isaac Newton's Chrono

logy, Dean Milner has prefixed a note, stating, that he had, " at

various times, but in vain, desired, and even earnestly entreated

Professor Porson to undertake the examination of the grand

* "Whither ho had gone to attend the meeting of the Board of Longitude.
342 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1806. JETAT. 56.

chronological questions" which form the subject of Sir Isaac's
treatise; "urging it as an attempt worthy of his great talents

and great attainments."
     He did, indeed, frequently, so urge it ; for the very respect

in which he held the Professor, made him regret, that such

transcendent abilities as his, should be employed in any but the

highest departments of   le"aLrneianrgn. ingT, hsiuschwaass   a subject   often
discussed between them.                                      yours," the  Dean

would say, "should be occupied on more important matters

than the settling of a disputed reading, which, perhaps, after all,

but slightly affects the meaning of the passage under consider

ation. Such a mind as yours, should be brought to bear upon

some great question."

    It was not, of course, that Dean Milner did not admit the

possession of the most varied and extensive classical learning

to be essentially requisite to the successful prosecution of such
investigations as those in which the Greek Professor delighted ;
neither did he undervalue the importance of those investi
gations ; but believing Porson, besides his surpassing excellence

as a scholar, to possess a reach of mind capable of applying that

excellence to the highest purposes, he earnestly desired to see

him grapple with some subject requiring and deserving the

whole of his intellectual powers. Such a subject, in the opinion
of Dr. Milner, was Sir Isaac Newton's system of Chronology.

     To the examination of Newton's most ingenious arguments,
--the one astronomical, the other drawn from observations
upon the ordinary duration of human life, --the Dean had him

self, at various times, given a good deal of attention; and in the

conclusion following alike from both of these perfectly indepen

dent arguments, he was, himself, well satisfied to acquiesce ; in
Ifact, it would,
                     believe," have been exceedingly difficult to

shake his faith in   the chronological scheme                of one whom he
                     great master of reason."                Still, the question
used to call " that

was one concerning which the opinions of the learned were

divided, and one which Porson, by his eminest classical learn

ing, and extensive historical knowledge, was peculiarly qualified

to determine. Often, therefore, and strenuously, did Dr.
Milner exhort him to "try his strength" upon this subject.
              CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. JETAT. 57.                                     343

IThe  vwerryitew:or"dsSewtthleichthIe  have heard him use          recur to my mind
                                        Chronology, decide         between Newton
as

and his opponents. Set the question at rest for ever; that
would be an effort worthy of you."

     How strange and apparently capricious a thing is memory !
These words, heard in early childhood, ring upon my ear, as if
but lately uttered. Thus the events and incidents of youth,

although apparently obliterated from the mind, frequently start

into new life, awakened from their trance by some allusion, or

some association of ideas, which, perhaps, after all, we can

scarcely trace ! In fact, it is impossible to say, that anything

is absolutely forgotten ; we may have lost for years all recol

lection of an event ; and yet the whole train of circumstances

              it,

                                                        !
belonging to  may be safely stored up in that mysterious

faculty, the memory, and need but the spark which to fire
                                                           a
it,  and bring the whole to light
                                                                      '
     The month of January brought with it, as usual, much
                                                                                 is
college business. The affairs of the University Press, likewise,a
continued to engross considerable portion of Dr. M ilner's
time. His indifferent health, however, together with his

anxiety to devote as many hours as possible to the continuation

of the Church History, now induced him, to free himself, in

some measure, from this occupation. In letter to Dr. Pearce,

the successor of Dr. Turner, in the office of Vice Chancellor, he

states, at length, some of the reasons which led him to this

determination; adding, respecting the future conduct of the

press, various suggestions, which, as he had now been conver

sant with the subject, during more than three years, and had,

in fact, in the year 1804, usually presided at the meetings of
the Syndics of the Press, in the place of the "Vice Chancellor,
Dr. Torkington, who was infirm in health, could not be other

wise than valuable.

    A testimonial given by Dr. Milner in January, 1807, in

favour of gentleman, since well-known for his services in the
      a
                                                                a
cause of Christianity in India, contains passage which exem

plifies his constant practice of choosing the very best men who

could be obtained, to fill offices of trust and authority in the

college which he governed.
344 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. JETAT. 57.

I* * * * " Some time ago, Queen's College, of which

have the honour to be Master, was in want of a Tutor ; and,

Ithere not being a person of my own College whom judged
proper for this truly important situation, I fixed upon Mr-

Thomason*, after looking very diligently through the whole

University ; and I was certainly induced to appoint him Tutor

of Queen's College, entirely on account of his high reputation

for learning, good principles, and exemplary conduct."

     Professor Smyth, in a letter containing various notices of
Dean Milner, which, like all those received from the same

source, are well worthy of preservation, observes that about

this period he " frequently urged the Dean to draw up a Life of

Calvin, for which, he said, he had some materials, and for which

"Ihe was eminently fitted, but no work of the kind ever appeared."
Professor Smyth adds,  remember that Dr. B., the last

principal of the E. I. Coll., was very much struck with a

sermon that the Dean delivered at St. Mary's, against the

emancipation of the Roman Catholics."
     The sermon alluded tot, which produced, at the time of

its delivery %, a great sensation in the University, has, doubtless,
in one point of view, lost a part of its interest --the claims

which Dean Milner opposed having been since conceded, and

the question settled by the Legislature. Still however, as a

masterly historical sketch, admirably adapted to the purpose
which its author had in view, this composition must ever retain

its value. The following extract treats especially of the great
Christian doctrine which Dr. Milner regarded as "the very
jewel of the Reformation."

     " Modern historians and political writers have been copious

and loud in their praises of the Reformation from Popery ; but
it is very plain, that the thing these writers are chiefly in love
with, is merely the civil liberty of the Reformation, which was

indeed one blessed effect, but by no means the most important
effect of our emancipation from Papal despotism. The revival

           * lie was fifth Wrangler,
t See Dean Milner's Sermons, Vol. I., Scr. 1.

             t January 30th, 1807.
                CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. jETAT. 57.    345

of pure Christianity which took place at the Reformation, is

Ithat which forms the boast of that glorious aera; and am

deeply and a wfully convinced, that unless something like another

revival of the same spirit should again manifest itself among

us, we shall, in no great length of time, be found to have let

go the substance, and retained only the shadow of Protes

tantism.

   I" can have no fear of incurring a charge either of ignorance
Ior temerity, when only repeat what, in substance, has, of late

years, been frequently much more than intimated from the first

Episcopal authority*,    learning, wisdom, and knowledge
                         (if
in the Scriptures and in the history of the Church, be any
                            ;
foundation for authority,) that in too many instances even the;

clergy of the Establishment have materially deviated from the

natural, unsophisticated meaning of the Articles and Homilies

of the Church of England that they have, in fact, preached

too much from Socrates and Seneca, and too little from Christ

and his everlasting Gospel; that the reading-desk and the

pulpit have often been at variance and that, instead of pressing

upon the conscience with energy, the great and peculiar doc
trines of the Gospel,-- such as the doctrines of original sin,

justification by faith, and regeneration by the Holy Spirit, --

there has been, in many cases, substituted in their place little

more than vain system of frigid ethics, accommodated to the

pride and blindness of human reason. My own little experience
                a

                   I
entirely accords with the admonitions of this learned prelate   :

and, with him, further believe, that the doctrine of Justifica

tion by Faith, as stated in the eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth

Articles of our Church, the very corner-stone of the whole

system of the first Reformers. It was the doctrine of Luther
                         is
                                                  it
and Calvin, and Philip Melancthon; and was the doctrine of

the  "whHoolew  college  of Apostles.
                far, in  the distant
                                       periods  of the Puritanical excesses,

this fundamental doctrine was, by some hypocrites, perverted

to wicked purposes, (as the very best things are ever liable to
abuse,) or how far, in modern times, some fanatical and illiterate

                         * Bishop Horsley.
346 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. JETAT. 57.

itinerant teachers have given just occasion to Antinomian inter

Ipretations of the same doctrine, will not take upon me to
Idecide : but have no doubt, that in the anxiety to resist and

expose the dangers of Antinomianism, many, of late years,

actuated by more zeal than knowledge, have mutilated the

whole Gospel system, totally destroyed the analogy of Faith,

and expressed themselves in such a way as scarcely to have

kept clear of the grossest errors of the Pelagian heresy.
The remedies for this mischievous practice^ in cases where it

originates from mere error of judgment, will consist in a

better acquaintance with the interior of ecclesiastical history,

a closer and more diligent study of the evangelical system,

and, lastly, a more serious and habitual application of the

doctrines of the Gospel to men's own individual circumstances,

for the express purpose of spiritual improvement, and the for

mation of Christian dispositions. The using of these remedies,
******by persons who sincerely wish to be set right, will be crowned
with success."                          "But the dangerous sort

of instruction above alluded to, does not always arise from

mere ignorance, but from something besides, something worse

than any mere ignorance whatever. In many instances, be

sides a complete unacquaintance with the marrow of the Pro

testant confessions of faith, and the specific difference between

these and the Roman Catholie tenets in doctrinal articles;

besides also, the total misapprehension of the meaning of our

own Articles and Liturgy; there is super-added a lamentable

opposition of the human heart to the very doctrines themselves

of  salvation by Christ and renovation  by the Holy Spirit.

     " Men do not thoroughly believe    these doctrines : the  pride

of corrupt nature is not humbled into a thorough acquiescence

in the Revealed Word, much less into a grateful acceptance of

the terms of Revelation. Hence, the true interpretation of the

Scriptures, and of our own Articles, is often condemned as

irrational; and it is found in vain to insist upon the plain,

literal, and grammatical meaning of the most unequivocal ex
pressions, when it has been pre-determined, that all such

notions are absurd, and incapable of being seriously held by

men of learning and capacity.
CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1R07. JETAT. 57.  347

" Thus it happens, that men may be baptized, profess Chris

tianity all their lives, and join in the common acts of established

Christian communion, and yet constantly withstand, with all

their might, what I call the interior, the essentials, the marrow

of the Christian system.

    " Such persons would do well to scrutinize those parts of the

history of the blessed Reformation which are scarcely touched

upon by our most elegant and approved historians ; those scat
tered, but very authentic and precious memoirs which lay open
the real views of our first Reformers concerning repentance,
faith, and sanctification -- in short, concerning the everlasting
salvation of the soul. Such a laudable industry might, by the

blessing of God, help to remove the veil from men's eyes; might

make them suspect, that they had hitherto misunderstood the

most material article of the Reformation ; and by thus abating

prejudices, might pave the way for true conversion of heart,

and true spiritual discernment.

    " No one, I conceive, can understand me to be here alluding

to the Roman Catholic tenets of the Pope's supremacy, tran-

substantiation, the invocation of saints, and such like.' In

rejecting these absurdities and superstitions, we are all perfectly

agreed. It is the doctrines of grace, which teach the way of

acceptance with God, and of the formation of the true Christian

Icharacter, on which have my eye. These doctrines are the

immediate and pressing concern of every individual, because

his eternal happiness depends upon them ; and, therefore, if

these be not both distinctly stated and sedulously enforced by
the clergy, it is in vain to expect any effective or abiding

improvement among the people, either in Christian faith, or

Christian morals.

   '' It is on this account, that I would to God the true nature of

the Protestant Reformation were better understood, and, parti
cularly, in the grand article respecting faith and works : for then
the doctrinal articles of our own Church, which are in perfect
harmony with the sentiments of the best and wisest Reformers,

would soon be, likewise, better understood; controversies

concerning their meaning, would vanish apace; the well-
disposed would be delivered from darkness into a marvellous
348 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. jETAT. 57.

light, and would receive the truth with a godly joy and thank       >
fulness. This would be the cure of every departure from the
Protestant faith -- this would be the revival of Christian prin     ^
ciples -- this would put an end to unlearned and injudicious
declamation against Methodism, for Methodism would scarcely

exist. It would soon be found, that neither illiterate enthusiasts

who, by coarse allusions and intemperate language, often, with

the very best meanings, burlesque the most momentous doc-
trines ; nor conceited philosophers of modern times, who, like
their ancient brethren, can never relieve the horrors of a guilty
conscience, nor make the wicked man turn away from his
wickedness, by their insipid harangues on candour and huma

nity --it would soon be found, that neither open enemies, nor

false friends, nor deluded brethren, could make much stand
against the glorious and salutary truths of the Gospel, delivered,
by those properly commissioned to deliver them, with wisdom,
animation, and affection. Then would our prayers be offered
up, not merely with the lips, in the name of Jesus, but from
the heart delivered up to its Redeemer and sanctifier."

     Consistency was a prominent feature in Dr. Milner's cha

racter. It is, therefore, not surprising, that, with his views of

the fatal errors of popery, he should about this time, have drawn

up the following address.

    " We your Majesty's, &c. &c.
     "Humbly present to your Majesty our unfeigned thanks

for the signal proof which we have recently witnessed of your

Majesty's firm and conscientious determination to maintain the
barriers of our happy Constitution, erected by the wisdom of
our ancestors, for the security of the Protestant religion.

    " As ecclesiastical persons, we feel ourselves more parti

cularly interested in every measure which tends to preserve
inviolate our most excellent and venerable Establishment ;

and as teachers of the pure doctrines of Christianity, we
rejoice to see your Majesty's undoubted authority exercised in
guarding those doctrines from all dangerous and anti-christian

admixtures.

    " The mild and tolerant principles by which your Majesty
          CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. .ETAT. 57.                          349

has been actuated throughout your auspicious reign, have
convinced all descriptions of your Majesty's loyal subjects, that
your Majesty never wishes to interpose restraints, but from a
sense of duty and of those sacred obligations under which the
royal prerogatives are held ; and they reflect with admiration
and gratitude, that a steady course of inflexible constancy, thus

tempered with the benevolent spirit of liberality and indulgence,
entirely becomes the defender of the faith, and the father of his

people.

    "Fully persuaded of the rectitude of the motives which

dictated the wise resolutions of your Majesty, at this critical

juncture, we pledge ourselves, in conjunction with all your

Majesty's loyal and dutiful subjects, to exert our utmost efforts,

to support the royal authority, to cherish among the people a

sense of the liberties which they enjoy under our admirable

Constitution, and to cultivate a spirit of obedience to the laws,

and "oWf ueniohnu,mhbalrympornayy,,  and universal good-will.  under  your
                                     that Almighty God, who,

Majesty's Government and protection, has bestowed upon us

so many blessings, may long continue to preserve your Majesty's

life, and to pour out his favours upon your Majesty and your

people."

     On the dissolution of Parliament, which took place soon
afterwards, Dr. Milner, thus wrote.

          "To the Rev. William Mandell.

" My dear Sir,                       " Queen's College, May 3, 1807.
I" The election is fixed for Friday next, and, suppose, it

will begin at ten o'clock, in the morning.

   I" We are all in a flame for Church and King, and hope

you will join us.

    " Most seriously, I do think, that the greatest constitutional

question, by far, that has happened in my time, is now at issue :

and if the outs were to get the better, I think, that the royal

prerogative would be in imminent danger, if not actually

extremely lowered and reduced.

   " If I judge right, you will be of the same opinion, and will

make us happy, by allowing us to number you among the
350 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. jETAT. 57.

friends of Sir V. Gibbs and Lord Palmerston, who, at present,

represent the constitutional side, against Lord Euston and Lord

Henry  Petty, the friends  of the Ex-Ministers.

                            I am, dear Sir,
                                   " Yours most "trIu,lyM, ilNEr."

     It is scarcely necessary to state, that the successful candi

 dates, on this occasion, were Lord Euston and Sir V. Gibbs.
      One circumstance which, at this time, occasioned to Dr.

 Milner some extra occupation, was his being appointed by the
 University, in conjunction with Dr. Jowett and Dr. Outram, to

 read the compositions sent in by the numerous competitors for

 the munificent prize of five hundred pounds, offered by Dr.
 Buchanan, for the best " Essay on the probable Design of
 Divine Providence, in subjecting so large a portion of India to
 the British Empire," and to decide upon their respective

 merits.

     Dr. Milner, who, on former occasions, had been selected by
Dr. Buchanan as the dispenser of his liberality, was very
anxious concerning the adjudging of this noble prize. Of the
number of compositions that were sent in within the appointed
time, not one was thought worthy of acceptance. Another

J.essay, afterwards ascertained to be from the pen of the Rev.

W. Cunningham, and to which the prize would have been

unanimously adjudged, was presented a few days too late. This
composition Dr. Buchanan offered to print, at his own

expense.

     The meetings of the Board of Longitude called Dr. Milner
to London, at the ordinary periods, during the early part of this
year, and in the third week in June, he entered upon his annual

journey to Carlisle, where much business awaited him. A law

suit between the Chapter and the Duke of Devonshire, occupied
much of his time. The necessary repairs of the Cathedral,
likewise demanded his attention ; and, moreover, a new organ
was to be built.

     Concerning the latter subject, the Dean was exceedingly
solicitous ; and, being most anxious that the Cathedral should
OHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. jETAT. 5?.  351

possess a really fine organ, he wisely applied to his friend Dr.      V
Crotch, for advice respecting the builder to be selected.

     The new organ finished, it was desired that a musical
festival, for the furtherance of some charitable object, should

take place at Carlisle.
     Dean Milner did not disapprove of such performances

of oratorios, or selections of sacred music. He willingly con
sented to the use of the Cathedral, on the occasion of this

Ifestival, which lasted, as recollect, three days ; and privileged

by his station, he attended the rehearsals, as well as the public
performances. Mr. Yaniewiez, a violin player of uncommon
excellence, was the leader ; and Mrs. Dickons, a singer of con

siderable reputation in her day, sang the principal treble songs.

IVaughan, (unequalled to this day in his peculiar style,) and,

think, Harrison, assisted.
     But Carlisle, albeit graced by a cathedral, was nevertheless,

at that time, a most unmusical city. The Bishop patronized
the festival, and many of the neighbouring county families
attended ; still, however, the affair proved a failure ; and, so far

Ias know, no second attempt, of a similar kind, has been made.

      Various, however, as might be Dean Milner's avocations at
Carlisle, his great object, while there, was, always, to exert
himself to the utmost in the pulpit.

      Some observations with regard to preaching, written during
this summer, and apparently suggested by the perusal of certain
parts of the works of Dr. Blair, will be read with interest.

     " Object of preaching.
     "1. To persuade men to be good; and therefore convince

first.

    " 2. Gravity and warmth are the requisites.
     " 3. The grand general rules are,--
     "1. Unity, --one main point.
     " 2. Unity more easily preserved in particular subjects, than

in general ones.

     "3. Never aim at saying all that can be said; a great mis-

take this. Select well.

     "4. Let the preacher suppose himself addressed; and con

sider what would most affect himself.
352 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. /ETAT. 57.

    "5. Avoid dryness --make it interesting: bring it to the
heart. Carry it on in the strain of address.

     " Make every one think, that you are addressing him.

Ther"ef6o.reS, tyrleem. emPbeersrpiacgueosu, sc. haracters, &c.

    "An Introduction should have one or more of the
following objects --

    "1. To conciliate.
    " 2. To excite attention in consequence of the novelty or

importance of the subject.                   none          of these  three  things

    " 3. To make hearers docile.
    " Omit Introduction when

are wanted.

    "Good Introductions difficult; should be planned after

dige"stTinhge  the subject.          in the  introduction  should  be correct and
               expression

good".     The hearers attend        most to language, then.         Except in
        Modest, simple, and
                                     opposite to ostentation.

very particular cases.

     "Q3" Not vehement; yet it should sow the seeds of what is

to  be  expected!      However, don't        anticipate.
                   well proportioned.
    "   Let it be

                       " Division of a Discourse.
    " 1. Begin with the simplest points.
    " 2. Not one word more should be used than is necessary."

     Among some private thoughts of about this date, the follow

ing reflections occur.

    " It is frequently a matter of serious concern to truly evan

gelical persons, that they are, in many instances, compelled to
own, that the practice of those who profess to believe sound
principles, does not correspond, as it ought to do, with their
faith; and thi3 concern is not a little increased by observing,
that, frequently, the practice of those who are unsound in

Gospel doctrines, nevertheless, much more to be commended
than that of the former sort of persons, so far as the external

    concerned.
is
                                is,
              CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1807. -ETAT. 57.      353

    " This I take to be a consideration of very great importance.
    " It becomes a trial of the faith of truly conscientious
persons, especially if they happen to be reproached by ill-

disposed people, who are apt to triumph over those who are

really godly, and to object to them the excellent conduct of

those whom godly persons cannot allow to be true believers,

even though they exhibit a great deal of what is amiable and
praiseworthy among men."

      Soon after the 10th of October, Dean Milner, having
passed a few days with his relatives at Hull, and with his
friend Mr. Richardson, at York, was again at his post in the
University. Later in the year he was gladdened by a visit
from the late Christian Ignatius Latrobe, a person in whose
society, in common with all who knew him, he always took
much delight. Mr. Latrobe's character, his extensive informa

tion, his extraordinary conversational powers, his benevolent

and lively temperament, and "though last, not least," his

transcendent musical talents, rendered him, to the circle of his
intimate friends at Cambridge, a most welcome visitor. His

arrival always infused new vigour into the musical coteries
within the range of his acquaintance; and notwithstanding Dr.
Milner's want of ear, no one entered with more hearty good
will than he, into the small, but very excellent musical parties
collected, particularly by his friend Dr. Jowett, on such

occasions.

Many, though not all, of those who assisted at those very

pleasant parties, are no longer living. Some remain to bear

witness to the truth of my assertion, that by the band of friends
then in the habit of performing together, the best compositions,
both vocal and instrumental, of the great German and Italian
masters, were often executed with more precision and better
taste than are generally exhibited in public, by professional

artists.

     The December meeting of the Board of Longitude called
Dr. Milner, as usual, to London, early in the month ; and he
had but just returned to Cambridge when he was recalled to
town by the sudden and dangerous illness of his friend Mr.

Wilberforce.

                                                  2A
354 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JETAT. 58.

" My dear kind friend the Dean," writes Mr. Wilberforce, in
his Journal, "
                 came up  to us ;" and Hannah More, congratulating
him, by letter,   on his
                          recovery, observes, that she was " happy

that the incomparable Dean" had been with him during his

illness*.

     Most justly has it been remarked, concerning Dean Milner,

that " there never, perhaps, existed a man more richly endowed"

than he, "with the milk of human kindness; or one whose

affectionate concern for every creature about him, was more

remarkable;" and this disposition was, doubtless, especially
manifested throughout the whole of his intercourse with Mr.

Wilberforce and his family.
     He was detained in London by the indisposition of his

friend till the first day of the New Year.
    In the midst of the College and University business which

pressed upon him, on his return to Cambridge, Dr. Milner

found time for an animated discussion, with a very able and

learned correspondent, concerning certain disputed points of

chronology : so true it is, that, as he himself used to say, " those

who choose to do so, may find time enough for everything !"

The correctness of ±he account given by Thucydides of a certain

eclipse of the sun, visible at Athens, in his time, by means

of which account (apparently, however, invalidated by more

recent astronomical calculations) the dates of some important

events were sought to be ascertained --was the matter under

discussion.

This correspondence would be neither interesting nor intel

ligible to a great mass of readers; it is mentioned only as

affording evidence, in addition to much which has been already
adduced, of the active turn of Dean Milner's mind.

     The following characteristic passage respecting a young
nobleman, to whom kthe Rev. William Mandell had agreed to

become private tutor, occurs in a letter, dated, "February
21st," from Dr. Milner, to that much esteemed friend.

                          * See Life of Wilberforce.
                CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JETAT. 58.     355

" My dear Sir,
    " Don't accuse me of being a troublesome correspondent, if

I Isay again, that am anxious to receive from you, an account,

when you are likely to come; for this Lord          is expect

ing to hear every day.

    I" do not mean, nor ever did, to press you : but a young

hand like him, will, perhaps, be anxious to know when he is to

begin ; more anxious, perhaps, than actually to begin, when it
comes to it; and, probably, more anxious than to go on

briskly.

    " You may remember my story of the young man who got

ready so many different Greek Testaments, some interleaved,

I&c. &c. --and, forgot to mention, that he was never for begin

ning at the middle or end, but always on the Monday of a

week.            " Yours always affectionately,

                                                       I. M."

     Two days afterwards, Dr. Milner, anxious to bring this

negociation to a conclusion, thus wrote again to the same
gentleman.

" My dear Sir,   " Queen's College Lodge,

                    February 23, 1808.
" From my several letters, particularly from the last, which

you had not received when you wrote yours, of this morning,
Iyou may, perhaps, have discerned, that
                                                 certainly rather
wished no time to be lost -- and this, not so much from any

thing that Lord  had said, as from the knowledge which
I seem to myself to have acquired, from experience, of the state

of mind of persons in his situation. They intend to do a deal ;

there is an ardour about them at the moment ; they would not

lose an hour ; they are sorry for the past ; they mean to repair ;

and, of course, they grudge any delay.

    "Too often, all this ends in vanity; and sometimes, in

vexation too !   " Yours, dear Sir, always affectionately,
                                                   " Isaac Milner.

                                                                                    you are
to**********," P. S. As

                                                 2 a2
356 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. jETAT. 58.

perfectly right in appearing to take no notice of the unpleasant

disingenuousness of which you speak.

    " There are a thousand things of this sort, in this present

fragment of life, which it is far better to pass by, than to

"attTeomtphte  to set right or  mend.
               Rev. William     Mandell."

     The following letter written on the occasion of the present
Colonel T. P. Thompson's going out, as Governor, to Sierra
Leone, will be read with interest.

               " To the Rev. C. I. Latrobe.
                                           " Queen's College Lodge,
"Dear Sir,
                                           February 26, 1808.
" The reason of my troubling you with a letter, is this.
"A very good friend of mine, and also, of our common

excellent friend, Mr. Wilberforce, wishes to be introduced- to

you, and to have a little conversation with you, that might

possibly lead to something of importance.

    " To be brief, Mr. Thomas Thompson, --son of a gentleman

of the same name, who is a banker at Hull, and partner with
Messrs. Smith, Payne, and Smith, and who is also an M.P. --

is likely to go out soon to Sierra Leone, and, as I suppose, in

the capacity of Governor, upon Mr. Ludlam's resignation.

    "Mr. Thompson, the father, is a tried character, having

been a truly religious man for many years. He is connected

with the Methodists. The son has, of course, had a religious

Ieducation, and either is, or will be, trust, a religious character

likewise, in due time; but religion, you know, is not here

ditary. However, I believe, I do not go too far when I say,

that Mr. Thompson, junior, will certainly favour all the rational

attempts of religious people to spread Christianity, and to
Icivilize barbarians. In this light, therefore,
                                                 venture to

recommend Mr. Thompson to your notice, as a person on
whom the Moravians might depend for help and support, and

countenance, in all their laudable attempts, whether those
attempts be on a small, or a larger scale. Even if one, or two,

or three of your brethren,should have a mind to go with him
            CnAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. -ETAT. 58.     357

to explore those regions, I should think the opportunity a very

favourable one.
" Mr. Wilberforce is Mr. Thompson's warm friend, and
Idoes his utmost to forward his appointment; and do assure
Iyou, that
            shall feel greatly disappointed if Mr. Thompson,

under the guidance and protection of a kind Providence, do not

show himself both discreet and enterprising, and also very able

in the execution of the plans which he has in view.

    " A single word more.
    " He thinks, and very justly too, that a few musical people,

who would like an excursion of this sort, without requiring

much pay, might prove very useful in promoting the general

object of civilization among the Africans.

   " I have desired Mr. Thompson to request you to fix a day

and hour for his waiting upon you -- or if you ever call on Mr.
Wilberforce, Mr. T. is to be found at No. 9, Little College

Street, Westminster: but the best way will be to fix, by

writing, the time beforehand.

         I" am, dear Sir, yours truly, and affectionately,

                                                                " I. MilNER.
    " N. B. Mr. Thompson, in his note to me, in which he

requests to be introduced to you, observes, very justly, ' that

the Moravian Missionaries have conducted themselves in a

more rational, deliberate, and regular manner, than those of any
other sect who have attempted Missions and ' their success'

he says, 'has been answerable to their deserts.'"

     About this time, Dr. Milner's spirit, (to use an expression
of his own,) was refreshed by a short visit from his friend Mr.
Hey, of Leeds; a man of whom he was accustomed to say, that

"conscientiousness and consistency," were the "distinguishing
features of his character."

     The Rev. William Richardson was now engaged in prepa-
ing for publication a second volume of the Sermons of Joseph
Milner. Some of Mr. Richardson's observations, with regard

to these Sermons, are worthy of being preserved. A strain of

shrewd humour, not very unlike that which appertained to his

correspondent, characterizes the letters of this excellent man.
35S CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JETAT. 58.

"IOn the 25th of May, 1808, he thus writes to the Dean:

wonder you should send me so many sermons that have been
                         at * * * * , and so very lately.
preached by F

He will look queer, if he finds that any of his hearers remember

that they have heard preached by him several of the sermons in
     volume I            printing ; but I
the  " I have       am                     could not  help      it.
                    had   a request from    a Mr. G          ,  a
                                                                     Lincolnshire

clergyman, known to your brother, for the loan of some of the

manuscript sermons to preach to his congregation. He pleads

bad health and nervous feelings of a miserable kind, which

disqualify him from composing sermons, and begs hard to be
Iindulged.          told him I would mention the matter to you and

follow your direction, as the sermons were not mine to dispose
Iof. think you cannot do better with the residuum than to
Idispose of it among those parsons who want such helps.
                                                                     did

Iso with Mr. Adam's manuscripts, after had selected as many
as I thought it right to publish.
    " I think the present volume will contain about thirty- three
Isermons; and as have found it very difficult to select so

many, so as to furnish the variety that the readers will expect,

I am inclined to think that no more ought to be published.

    " A person so zealous as your brother was, for the peculiar,

distinguishing, doctrines of Christianity, must have them in

every sermon, and thus, must make one sermon very like

another. He took as large a range with his views as most men ;

Iand know, supposed that he gave his congregation greater

variety than many of his brethren ; but certainly there is more

of this variety in appearance than in reality ; and so it must

need"sYboeuwairteh  all of us that  think as he did.  of me and mine.
                    very kind in    your remembrance

Perhaps you will think me altered for the worse, when you see

me next. I hardly yet am able to walk upright, but hope that

             of summer will restore

                    " am, dear Sir,
Ithe
     warmth                                my  perpendicularity.

                         " Your ever faithful and affectionate
                                                      " W. Richardson.
" To the Rev. Dr. Milner, Dean of Carlisle."
       CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JliTAT. 58.                 359

     On the 1st of June, Mr. Richardson writing again to the
Dean, makes some excellent remarks on sermons in general,
and on the second volume of Joseph Milner's Sermons, in

particular.

    " Those sermons," he writes, " that strike most at the time

of delivery, are the least fit for publication, or general instruc
tion ; because that which gives them their peculiar interest and
merit with the hearer, is some local or temporary circumstance
which soon loses its importance, even with those that heard

them.
" Some of your brother's courses of sermons, upon particular
I Ibooks of Scripture,
       dare say, were useful ; but never have

seen one of them that was complete and unbroken.

    " There will be found in this volume, more of the charac

teristic blunt honesty and plainness of speech of the author,

than in the first ; for success has made me more audacious than

II was, with the public, before knew what it would bear.
    I" am, certainly, very jealous of the literary reputation of

my lamented friend, and afraid of hurting his honest fame.
IBesides, when one sits down to the task have engaged in, it
Iis to search for faults, and blemishes, and defects.
                                                       think a

critic, by trade and profession, must be fastidious, and more

apt to be displeased than pleased.                         and

   I" am sorry you get on so slowly with the History,      will

greatly fear that the excellent matter you have collected

not soon see the light.

   I" wish you had more leisure and better health, to pro
Isecute the task, as think it of great importance.

    " My wife unites with me in all manner of good wishes.

                      " I am, dear Sir,

                                " Your ever faithful and affectionate
                                                    "W. Richardson.

    "P.S. Our new Archbishop is to make his public entry

here on the 26th.

" Rev. Dr. Miner."

    The remarks made by Mr. Richardson in the foregoing
letter, are in perfect accordance with the preface which he pre
3 GO         CHAI\ XVIII. A.D. 1808. jETAT. 58.

fixed to the second volume of the Sermons of the Rev. Joseph
Milner : and the manner in which that volume was received by
the religious public at large, as well as by Mr. Milner's surviving

friends and hearers, completely justified the Dean's confident
anticipations of its success.

     With respect to the last point touched upon by the ex
cellent writer of the above letter -- the slowness of Dr. Milner's
progress, in the continuation of the Ecclesiastical History --

although there was indeed, abundant reason to apprehend, that
in consequence of the Dean's precarious health, and many and

various important avocations, his progress must be slow ; yet
so sedulously had he laboured, that the fifth volume of the
History was at this time in the press ; and the Dean was now
occupied in preparing for publication the concluding volume of
his brother's works*, containing his Answer to Gibbon, Essays
on Religious Subjects, Life of Howard, Observations on Sir Isaac
Newton's Chronology, &c, &c.

     The time, however, had now arrived for his attendance at
the June meeting of the Board of Longitude; and that meeting
over, he set out upon his summer's journey to Carlisle, where
his residence seems, this year, to have been less tranquil than
usual.

     He thus writes to Mr. Mandell.

"My dear Sir,                                      "Deanery, 1808.
   " What a bustle do I live in !    One thing after another

keeps rising day by day, to keep me at work; and yet, my

Iaccount, when summed up, would be, fear, but an indif

ferent one.
"IIthat
          have been aiming to write to you a line from the day
         received yours ; but some job or other contrives to defeat

my purpose.                  here ;  and I am to preach to-morrow.

    " It is now the Assizes
     "Dining with our new Bishop -- meeting and visiting the
Judges --dining with them -- also with the Grand Jury--visits
from all the grandees of the county -- hour after hour-- most

vain conversation ! ! !

         * Now published as Volume VIII. of Milner's Works.
          CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. /ETAT. 58.         361

I" hope you have comfort in the discharge of your clerical

duties.

    " Whatever you do else, continue them faithfully, and you
will be useful and happy. We must have some serious con

versation when we meet.                              I. M.

                       " Yours ever affectionately,
" To the Rev. Mr. MandelL"

    It so happened that Dr. Buchanan, accompanied by his two

daughters, paid a visit to the Dean just in time to hear the
Assize Sermon, alluded to in the foregoing letter. He thus

speaks of it in a letter, dated, " Glasgow, 28th of September,

] 808 *. We arrived here on the 20th instant." * * * *

" We stopped on Sunday at Carlisle. The Dean of Carlisle,

with whom we dined, lifted up his voice against the races for
the first time. He had long been oppressed in spirit on the

subject ; and he devoted his last day of preaching this season

to the consideration of it. The Cathedral was crowded, and he

preached the word with great energy and eloquence."

    It was not Dean Milner's habit to preach against particular

practices, even though   h"etothaocutghats  them evil practices. To do
so, he used to say, was                     injudiciously as a physician

would do, who should attack the symptom instead of the

disease. Let but the heart," he would say, "be right with

God, and no difficulty will be felt about a vast number

of questions, concerning which much discussion is sometimes

raised."

     There were, however, two public amusements, against which

he did, occasionally, " lift up his voice." These were races and

theatrical entertainments.

  ' It is perfectly needless to say, when speaking of the senti

ments of such a man as Dean Milner, that he did not object

either to the Race-course or the Play-house, upon the score of

there being, necessarily, any sin in the simple act of witnessing

either a trial of swiftness between different horses, or a thea

trical representation. It was, in both cases, the attendant

          Sco Memoirs of Dr. Buchanan.
362 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. jETAT. 58.

circumstances which he deprecated: and on this point, his
mind was fully made up. He used to call the race-course a

" sink of iniquity," and was equally well convinced of the evils

necessarily resulting from the whole system of theatrical enter
tainments.

     His sentiments on this latter subject may be gathered from
the following extract from a letter, which he wrote from
Borough Bridge, on his return to Cambridge from Carlisle ; at
which place he had, during the preceding summer, taken
occasion, on the last two Sundays of his residence there, to
oppose, from the Cathedral pulpit, the erection of a theatre.

" And now, dear Sir, a single word respecting the proposed

play-house.
" It is not my practice to deal much in compliments ; and,
therefore, without intending anything of that sort, I do sin
Icerely assure you, that
                             look upon it as a proof of your

candour, that you have put yourself in the way of listening, on

Itwo Sundays, to what had to say on the subject of play3

and play-houses.  Indeed, the circumstance gave me much
Ipleasure at the time, and aimed to have shaken you by the
hand, and told you so ; but I know not how I lost you in the
Icrowd on Sunday last. The pleasure which then felt, and
which I still feel on the recollection, would be not a little
Iincreased if should find it to be true, as has been hinted, that,

besides yourself, you brought some of your female near relatives

to hear the same discourse.
I" This openness of disposition appears so favourable, that
Iam encouraged to hope that you will forgive me, if add,
briefly, as follows: --My dear
                                 , you are now, as well as

myself, past the middle of a very long life ; and, therefore, we

should neither of us be ashamed of correcting, by after-thought

and reflection, any hasty steps which we may have taken. It

may, possibly, give you infinite pleasure in the decline of your

life, to reflect that you paused a little in this business. There

fore do so pause. No possible harm can arise from a little

delay : and as you are said to be a leader in bringing forward
Ithe plan, your influence will,
                                 doubt not, be effectual in
CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JET AT. 58.                          3 63

preventing haste and precipitation in others ; provided only

that you be inclined to think, that my arguments deserve some
Iconsideration.
                 know so much of the sentiments of our

common friend, Dr. Jowett, on this head, that I am sure he

will rejoice to hear, that any pupil of his rather opposed than
Iforwarded the erection of play-houses.
                                         hope to see him in

two or three days.

    " Not a creature knows of my having written a single line to

you on this subject.

                              " I remain, dear Sir, &c, &c.

" Borough Bridge, September 28."

     Considerable censure has been in certain quarters, with
much illiberality, cast upon the Dean, or his memory, in con
sequence of the interest which he avowedly took in private
exhibitions of personal strength or activity, such as horseman
ship, &c, or manual dexterity, such as sleight of hand. He
made no secret of the fact, that he liked to witness such

performances, and used to maintain, that the obvious tendency
of feats of legerdemain to excite in the spectator a degree of
distrust in the apparent evidence of his senses, was highly
salutary; and more especially so in the case of young persons.

I remember more than one occasion on which he collected a

party of his friends to witness the feats of a juggler, whom he
had engaged to exhibit his skill in the dining-room at Queen's

ILodge : and remember his joining a party who were to attend

upon the private morning performance of a professor of the

equestrian art.

    It must be considered, however, that Dr. Milner was not a

man likely, in these or any other matters, to shape his conduct
by the opinions of others, or by any rule except his own con
viction concerning right and wrong. Bug-bears, we have
already seen, that he despised. As to the rest, every candid
person must perceive a well-marked line of distinction between
the amusements which he condemned and those of which, it is

admitted, that he sometimes partook with undisguised satis
faction. But were this otherwise, the duty of a biographer
would be to state the truth.
364 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. /ETAT. 58.

     On his road from Carlisle, Dean Milner visited his friends
both at York and at Hull, at which latter place he preached
more than once at St. John's church.

     Being detained at Hull somewhat longer than he had
expected, he thus wrote from thence to the Tutor of Queen's

College.

" My dear Sir,                    "Hull, October 10, 1808.

    "My room has not been empty all the morning for any
Itime at all. People began to call before had eaten my
breakfast, and I have, at this moment, four persons talking in

my hearing. A pretty situation in which to give advice about

lectures!  Greek books  in which  I used to lecture were

     "The
these :--

"Prose. Xenophon's Memorab., as an easy book for

pupils who know any Greek at all; then Demosthcn. Orations,

as a harder; Longinus, as still harder, and affording, to the

lecturer, a deal to say.

    " Verse. I used Euripides and Sophocles : in Latin,

select parts of Livy, particularly the Second Punic War.

    " In Morals, Locke's Essay is indispensable.

   I" In general, always found it better to begin the term with

the easier books, so as to sweep in as many of the pupils as

possible. Nothing can be more disagreeable as to have one's
youths sitting by one, and doing nothing.

   I I"As hope to see you so soon, need not say more at

present.                                              I. M.

                   "Believe me yours affectionately,
" To Ike Rev. TV. Mandell."

     Within another week Dr. Milner was again settled at
Cambridge; and either his habits of evening study, or some
other circumstances, directed his thoughts towards the various
contrivances for supplying artificial light. Candles were, of

course, out of the question ; and among lamps, he had never
met with one that entirely satisfied him ; the light was never
sufficiently shaded from the eyes of the student, and concen
             CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1800. ^TAT. 58.   365

trated upon his book. The Dean, therefore, determined to

invent a lamp for his own use, and did so. The first which

Mas made proved defective in various points ; but the inventor

was thoroughly fond of mechanical pursuits, and he altered and

improved his lamp until it seemed as perfect as such an imple

ment could well be. The light was shaded from the reader's

eyes ; it was thrown strongly upon the paper before him ;

there was neither shadow nor smoke; and, finally, the trimming

and adjusting gave no trouble worth mentioning.  In fact, this

lamp was a decided " hobby-horse."

    It is not, however, to be supposed, that its excellencies
existed only in the imagination of the inventor. It was really

a clever lamp, and became a great favourite with reading men ;

insomuch that the Dean's servant, to whom he abandoned all

the profits of the invention, carried on, during several years, a

most profitable trade in the University and elsewhere ; selling

many scores of these reading lamps, which were made of

various materials, and with various degrees of ornament, so as

to suit the taste or the convenience of all classes of purchasers.

Among the principal admirers and patrons of this invention,

was the late Dr. Edward Daniel Clarke, the Professor of
Mineralogy. With his characteristic enthusiasm, -- a quality

which, among many others, rendered his society delightful

to all who knew him, -- he declared in writing, that "Dr.

Milner's lamp had added very materially to the comfort of

his life."

Dr. Milner, during this winter, was engaged, when not

occupied by College or other business, in putting the finishing

touches to the eighth volume of the edition of Milner's Works,

then in the press. In this edition, the volume of Sermons by

Joseph Milner, prepared for publication by Mr. Richardson,

and at this time in the course of printing, was included;

as was also the fifth volume of the History of the Church of

Christ, of which little, besides the preface, now remained

unfinished.

The meeting of the Board of Longitude, calling Dean

Milner to London in the first week of December, he, for the

first time, took up his abode at Kensington Gore, where Mr.
366 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JETAT. 58.

Wilberforce had just established his family; and, ever disposed

to view the ordinary occurrences of life on the sunny side, he

suggested to his friend, who regretted his departure from his

late residence, an incidental advantage arising from this

removal.  "  With honest and judicious friendship, he   pointed out
to him       a danger in living altogether at Clapham,
                                                        --danger of

conceit and spiritual pride, and a cold, critical spirit." He

considered his friend to be better guarded against these evils,

"thdaanngmerangyreoatth."er  persons might be; but still he thought the
                             The cordial manner in which this suggestion

was received by Mr. Wilberforce proved, that these excellent

friends were worthy of each other.

   I have not yet mentioned a gentleman who possessed a

large share of Dr. Milner's regard, -- the late Rev. Thomas

Kerrich, of Magdalen College. With Mr. Kerrich, Dr. Milner,

who was his junior by three years, had lived in habits of

familiar intercourse during the whole of his residence in the

University. Although dissimilar in character, these long-tried

associates thoroughly enjoyed each other's society. They each

possessed a mass of various knowledge, and their points of

difference in pursuits and in taste, rather tended to add a zest

to their intercourse.

    It is scarcely necessary to say, that as a painter, and

especially a painter of portraits, Mr. Kerrich possessed very
uncommon powers. His talent of producing a really strong

and characteristic likeness has perhaps been seldom equalled :

Witness his portraits of Dr. Glynn, Dr. Waring, Dr. Pearce,

and Dr. Milner himself ; all which have been engraved.

But besides his powers as an artist, this gentleman was

exceedingly fond of whatever appertained to the philosophy of

light and colours, or to the more abstruse and mathematical

parts of the science of design ; and these subjects furnished

inexhaustible sources of conversation and discussion in his

interviews with Dr. Milner; and if on some of these topics the

superior knowledge were on the side of the Dean, there were
others, such as anatomy, architecture, antiquities, &c. &c,
concerning which his friend had decidedly the advantage. Mr.

Kerrich was the " ingenious and philosophical friend," who
            CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JETAT. 58.           367

could " paint very well," and who was " an excellent judge of

colours,'' mentioned by Dr. Milner in a letter to Mr. Wilber-
force "on the theory of colours and shadows*," afterwards

published by Repton in his book on Landscape Gardening.

The following note, which, with others of a similar kind,

and many of a more important character, has been kindly

placed at my disposal by the Rev. Richard Edward Kerrich,

may serve to indicate the nature of the easy and unceremonious

intimacy which subsisted between these old friends.

"Dear Sir,  " Queen's Lodge, December 31s/, 1808,

                                       Saturday night.
" Sir William Wynne, with Dr. Jowett, and five or six

others, drink their tea with me to-morrow; and it has oc

curred to me, that you may like to meet the grave Knight,

&c. &c.

   I" If so, shall be glad to see you by about half-past six, or

a quarter before seven at farthest.    " Yours,         I. Milner.

    " Respond.
" Rev. Mr. Kerrich."

     Very pleasant were such tea-parties ; but they were of rare
occurrence. Dr. Milner, at least with his old and intimate

friends, greatly preferred a quiet and perfectly unceremonious

IUte-a-Ute. A tete-a-tete indeed, ought not in strictness to

call having been myself, from my childhood upwards, per
mitted to be present on such occasion. Dr. Jowett, as has
been already intimated, spent at Queen's Lodge every Thurs

day and Sunday evening, coming to supper at half-past nine,
it,

                                                                      a

                                                                           it
   * This letter 'was communicated by  ought not, however, to have been pub
Mr. Wilberforce to Mr. Repton, with    lished without the writer's privity; and
                                       Dr. Milner felt that he ought to have
the following remark: "He'' (the       been allowed the opportunity of revis
writer) "is a man unequalled for the
                                       ing private letter on a scientific sub
store of knowledge he possesses, for

the clearness with which he views, and ject, previously to that letter's being

. the happy perspicuity with which he made public.

   communicates his perceptions." It
368 CHAP. XVIII. A.D. 1808. JETAT. 58.

remaining till half-past eleven or twelve ; Mr. Kerrich generally

came to tea, coming as early as half-past five, and going at nine
or ten. There were no fixed days for his visits, but both
parties enjoyed these evening conversations, which were always
lively and interesting ; and meeting with mutual pleasure, they
met frequently. The dissolution of friendships, cemented like
these by time and long habit, is one of the severest calamities
incident to the decline of life.
     369

     CHAPTER XIX.

Examination for Smith's Prize. -- Recollections of this Examination by Sir E.
     H. Alderson. --Fifth Volume of the Church History. -- Joseph Milner's
     SCehramraocntse.r--. --CoTrrheespotenrdmenc"e.Me--thBoodaisrdm."of--LTohnoguigtuhdtse.
                                                                                             -- Revival of Luther's
                                                                                             on Baptism and Rege
     neration.-- Establishment of a National School at Carlisle. --Opinions of
     Dr. Buchanan concerning the History of the Church of Christ. --Visit to
     Hull. --Anecdote.--Return to Cambridge.

     AJ). 1809. jETAT. 59.

The month of January brought with it its usual occupations.
    The present Sir E. H. Alderson, one of the Barons of the

Exchequer, who was this year Senior Wrangler, Senior Medallist,
and First Smith's Prize-man, has favoured me, among other
interesting recollections, with the following account of Dr.

Milner's style of examination for Smith's Prize.

     "My recollection," writes Sir Edward, "of the Dean's

examination of us in 1809, is of a very amusing, though labo

rious day's work. He talked to us and told us many anecdotes

of by-gone days in the University, whilst we were working at

the problems which he set us.

   I" should characterize his style of examination, as being

favourable rather to ready and quick students, than to deeply

Iread and learned ones ; and own that my subsequent expe

rience in life leads me to think that he was right in that course.

If the University were intended solely, or even mainly, to pro

duce great philosophers in particular sciences or arts, he was

Iwrong ; but if it be intended, as believe it ought to be, to

produce those who, in the language of our 'bidding prayer,'

are 'to do God service both in church and state,' then that

course of study and of examination which tends to bring out

the  "mSoostmeaccoofmthpelishperedsenmtenc,ousrhsoeusldsebeme  pursued.
                                                                to me
                                                                                             to  be  worthy  of

the sarcastic description applied to them, of being a new system
of ' patent block machinery.'

                                                                                                 2n
370 CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.

    " Happy are the students who unite both qualifications of
learning and ready talent. But they are rare, and are the
lights of the age when they occur. A general system cannot

be accommodated to them alone."

      The final revision of the fifth volume of the Ecclesiastical
History, with the writing of the Appendix and Preface, now
formed the occupation of Dr. Milner's leisure hours.

      His feelings and opinions, both with regard to this volume,
 and to the second volume of his brother's Sermons, then lately
published, appear in the following letter.

         "To the Rev. William Richardson.

"My dear Friend,  " Mr. Wilberforce's, Kensington Gore,

                           March, 1809, Wednesday.
" * * * I am called to London about the old
Ibusiness of finding the Longitude; and for aught I know

may be examined before the House of Commons, as a member

of the Board which Mr. Earnshaw complains of, for not having

sufficiently rewarded his merits as a maker of time-keepers.
I"
"
This petition is  at this moment     before  the House.       to
                  writing to you,    partly  because wished
I have deferred

hear a little what might be said about the new volume of
Sermons. * * *

   "In general, this is my report. -- 1. The best people like it

the best. 2. All who knew him, agree that this volume revives
the author much more than the former one did. 3. It is much

more spiritual. 4. Some growl on account of incorrectness,

I Ibut not much ; and as far as am concerned, find myself in
Ia dilemma. Some think might mend many passages ; others
Isay am more likely to spoil them, or at least to make them

less like the style of the author."

[Here follow several minute criticisms, &c. &c]

"You will like my new volume, I think, on the whole*;
Ithough  know you will think I am too diffuse. However,

         Volume V. of the History qf the Church.
           CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.                                       371

there are multitudes (to my certain knowledge) who are delighted

Iwith the revival of Luther's character. From all quarters am

told that this is the case ; and though you may have formed,

beforehand, the same general notion of him, it is next to

impossible that you should have seen the proofs, the rich

Idocuments, which produce in this book : they have never yet

appeared. My labour has been very great, to digest and to

curtail, and yet to supply the existing facts, so as to pass by

nothing of great importance.        remembered    to Mrs. Richard
                                    all friends.
    I" desire to be affectionately                I am tormented

son, your kind neighbours, and

with toothache,                                                                   I. M."

                 " But am yours, dear friend, always,

     During this same visit at Kensington Gore, Dr. Milner thus
wrote to his excellent friend Mr. Stillingfleet, of Hotham.

                                  " Kensington Gore, March 7th, 1809.
    " The second part of Volume IV. of the History of the
Church is actually printed. In the new edition, which is forth
coming in eight volumes, it will be called Vol. V. It is a large

volume, containing about seven hundred and fifty pages, full of
excellent matter, but gets on, in time, very little ; and for very

I Igood reasons. If live, shall get on so much the faster after

wards, in point of time."

     In a letter to Dr. Milner, dated March 15th, Mr. Richard
son, after expressing his " mortification" at the discovery of
certain errors in the newly published volume of Sermons, thus
writes :--

I" hate, as you do, tables of errata, and for the same
Ireasons.
           think all that should be done with the Sermons in

the next edition is, to make them more correct ; and to add a

word here and there when wanted, as was done with the second

edition of the first volume*. Dr. Jowett, or some other friend,

might easily help you in this matter.

           * This was done in the subsequent editions.
                                                                            2 B2
372 CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.

   I" am glad that you lend out your old gold, and put it to

usury, instead of letting it lie by you. This is just what I

"Ifwanted.
             you think that another volume of Sermons ought to

be given to the public, it would be best to select forty or fifty,

or more, of those that are best adapted for the press, before
Iyou
 do as     have recommended.
        opinion here of the second     volume  of Sermons  is  the
" The

same as that which you have collected.
     "These sermons are extremely liked by the best people,

and thought more characteristic of Joseph Milner than the first

volume. This is what I expected, and also that they would be

less liked by half-way people.

    " We are impatient to see the new volume of the History.

What occasion can there be for a preface ? Do let us have
something soon. We have all been reading over again the first
part by way of preparation for the second course. We expected

it two months ago, and grow quite hungry again. If it is not

served up soon, we shall become clamorous, and begin to

mob you.

    " When this service is performed, I, for my part, will teaze

you no more. The public has no further claim upon you, but

should leave you to your own judgment.

   " I say nothing to you of politics, because I hate the subject

at all times, and more especially now, when this odious and

disgusting affair occupies the public attention. May God watch

over us and preserve us !  " I am, dear Sir,

        " Your faithful and affectionate
                                       " W. Richardson.
" Rev. Dr. Milner, Dean of Carlisle."

     The letters which at this period passed between the Dean
of Carlisle and the Bishop of the diocese, not only prove that
the utmost cordiality subsisted between these correspondents,
but also that their communications turned, for the most part,
upon interesting and important subjects.

    A letter to Dr. Milner, from the Rev. William Richardson,
          CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. .ETAT. 59.

dated " April 15, 1809," contains some passages which ought to

Ibe q"uoAtsed. find," writes Mr. Richardson, " that the booksellers

are proceeding with great rapidity in the printing of Milner's

Works, no time must be lost in offering advice on one point.

   " What I particularly wish to mention to you as objection

able, is the title of the first of the essays ; it is called an Essay
I Ion Methodism.
          objected to it at the time.                    thought then,

and still think, that, though we ought patiently to bear the

stigma of Methodism, we ought not to legitimate the term

when applied to us, or embody ourselves, who act in an orderly

way,"  with the proper  Methodists.        is now        called  Evan
       What was then    termed Methodism,

gelical Religion ; would it not be better to change the title in

this new edition, and to call it An Essay on Evangelical
Religion ? *

   I" believe we shall none of us have any objection to this,

whatever pains are now taken to set it in an odious light.

   " I have lost, or given away, the Essays I once had, so that
I have not a copy by me. I always thought them among the

best things your brother wrote, with the exception of the vile

term Methodism, though I have not read them these fifteen or
Itwenty years, believe.

     " We wait impatiently for your last volume of Church

History.              " I am, dear Sir,
          " Your ever faithful and affectionate

                                         " W. Richardson."

    In the month of May, Dr. Milner was somewhat unex

pectedly called to London.

    In the following letter to an intimate and valued friend, he

alludes to this circumstance, and likewise feelingly and judi

ciously speaks of a young person in whose welfare he was
deeply interested :--

          * This advice was adopted in the now edition.
374 CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.

                       " Queen's College Lodge,

                                                             22nd May, 1809.

I" have been called to London as a member of the Board

of Longitude, to be examined before a Committee of the House

of Commons, on the petition of a watchmaker, who thinks that

he has not been sufficiently rewarded by the Board for his
improvements in chronometers to be used at sea." * * *

   I" tremble for * * * * in a religious point of view ;

the danger upon his first going out into the world is immense.

The company he is likely to be thrown among is hurtful and

contagious ; he is hampered on all sides by his relatives, who

Iare afraid of his growing over-religious, and have no doubt

but that they would rejoice to hear that he was plunging into

the practice of many worldly vanities. They will even lay

snares for him in various ways, but particularly by the instru

mentality of that sort of people whom they will recommend to
Ihim for companions.
                       should not at all wonder if he should

relapse into wordly ways and worldly sentiments in a consider

able degree, and for some time, and yet it will not follow that

he has   become (even  when he is pursuing the  system which I
fear he   may pursue)  an absolute ' apostate.
                                                No ; that good
Spirit which, I firmly believe, has guided him of late, may leave

him for a while, to teach him his natural weakness, and then

return again and take possession of his heart more effectually

than ever.  " Yours affectionately and faithfully,
                                        "Isaac Milner."

     About this period Dr. Milner appears to have been much
engaged in an attentive perusal of the New Testament, espe
cially the Gospels. This appears from his private memoranda,

from which the following are extracted :--

                          "Matt. vi. 19.

    "1. Necessity of principle. The eye.
    " 2. Very wicked persons must be alarmed.
    " 3. When alarmed, and in part religious, they are for two

matters.
                 CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. jETAT. 59.                                      375

" 4. Importance of self-examination and reviewing our

practice, and at set seasons.     &c, have                         practices  which they

    " Masters, servants, clergy,
allow. Examine."

                         " Luke v. 1.
" A miracle : doubtless to excite attention, and to prove his

almi""ghVMteyisrstepaokwe1.ner'.bDyepcoamrtmfreonmtatomrse,'  &c.  say, that  a sense  of sin
                                                              who

makes men flee from God : as Adam.

    " Peter had a sense of his own meanness, and of Christ's

greatness, &c."

    "The worldly, Pharisaical person, not much dissatisfied

with self.

    "The spiritual person grieved at his little progress; --
examines, -- amends, --conquers."

     On the 18th of June, Dean Milner set forth, as usual, on

his journey to Carlisle. During his residence there, he was
gratified by a visit from his much esteemed friends, Mr. and
Mrs. Richardson, and, as may naturally be supposed, many

interesting conversations on religious topics took place.
     The following thoughts on a very important subject, which

has been lately much agitated in the religious world, were
expressed by Dean Milner in one of these conversations, and
were noted down as worthy of preservation by a gentleman who
was present*.

"Thoughts expressed by Dean Milner, in conversa
      tion, ON THE SUBJECT OF BAPTISM, AND ON THE
     application of the term Regeneration to that
      Ordinance.
    " In a question so nice and difficult, it is best to begin with

what is perfectly clear and certain.

    " There is no doubt whatever but that our Lord appointed

Baptism to be the rite of initiation into his Church.

                 * The Rev. John Fawcett, of Carlisle.
376 CHAP. XIX, A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.

    " Further, it is clear that faith was an indispensable qualifi

cation in the candidates for Baptism.

    " It appears, therefore, that regeneration, of which faith is

the fruit, must precede Baptism, and that Baptism is the sign

and seal of regeneration.

    " The language of the 27th Article is exactly agreeable to
this view of the subject ; for it is there said, that Baptism is
the sign of regeneration or new birth; whereby they that receive

Baptism rightly are grafted into the Church ; the promises of
forgiveness of sins, and of our adoption to be the sons of God,
are visibly signed and sealed; faith is confirmed, and grace
increased, by virtue of prayer unto God.

    " This being the undoubted doctrine of the Church, it must
be understood that when, in the Catechism, it is said, that by

baptism we are made members of Christ, children of God,
and inheritors of the kingdom of heaven, it is meant that
we are then openly declared to be such ; still proceeding on the
supposition that baptism is rightly received, or, in other
words, supposing the existence of faith in the person to be

bapt"izAedn.d that the Church speaks of baptized persons as regene

rate, and the children of God, hypotheiically, is further clear,

from the concluding part of the Catechism, where the reason                \j
why infants, who cannot perform the duties of repentance and
faith, are baptized, is said to be, not that regeneration may be
conferred on them, but because they promise both these things
by their sureties, which promise, when they come to age, them
selves are bound to perform.

     "Does not this show that they are not partakers of the

benefits of baptism, except the proposed qualifications are

actu"allIyt  possessed ?  some  confusion  had crept  into the  language

             seems as if

used upon this subject, by confounding the case of infants with

that of adults, and applying to the one what, in strict propriety,

belo"ngIst   only to  the other.         that  the authority of Augustine
             appears  further probable,

has had considerable weight with the framers of our offices. It

'was the opinion of Augustine, that some operation of the Holy )r
CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. JETAT. 50.  377

Spirit, though not necessarily saving, did accompany the ordi-
nance of baptism.

    " From both these causes may arise that language which

seems to prevail in the office for Baptism, and which takes for
granted, that the Spirit of God accompanies the rite."

    A passage from the pen of the present Lord Bishop of Cal

cutta*, bearing upon the important subject above discussed,

may be here properly introduced.

    " It is not," writes the Bishop, " on questions which respect

only the doctrines of Christianity, that the Dean's testimony is
important ; it is not less so, as to the spiritual and holy effects
of these doctrines on the hearts and lives of men. The experi
ence of the power and influence of religion on the heart, pro
ducing, through the grace of the Holy Spirit, regeneration and
conversion, repentance for sin, and a new creation to holiness,
manifested by love to Christ our Saviour, and the dedication of
soul and body to his service, who bought us with his own
blood, was a topic on which he frequently insisted with great

force.

    " As connected with this subject, the Dean was disposed to

view the late controversy on Baptism, as one of the utmost
moment. He thought, indeed, that the question of the grace
accompanying the sacrament, had always been one of consider

able difficulty; and that to pretend, that nothing was more clear
than that regeneration, in the view of our Church, always

attended baptism, was contrary to the real state of the fact, and v

 to the general sentiments of our Reformers. He thought also,
 that to object to the use of the terms new birth and regenera- u
 tion, in the cases of conversion, whenever that conversion might
 take place, was to quibble about words, and was contrary to
 Scripture, and to the practice of our most pious and eminent V
 divines: and if it meant anything, must mean to weaken the
 doctrines of the fall of man, and the necessity of that inward

* Vide Memoir of Dean Milner, by the Rev. Daniel Wilson, in the Chriilian
                               Observer for the month of May, 1820.
378 CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. jETAT. 59.

and spiritual change by which alone he can be re-created after
the lost image of God."

     With his friend Mr. Mandell, who, during this summer,
passed a few days with him at the Deanery, Dean Milner main

tained a frequent correspondence. A letter to this gentleman,

dated "August 25th, 1809," and referring chiefly to chemical
subjects, contains the following passage :--

   I" It was a mortification to me that was not able to see

and converse with you on Tuesday last, in the evening, espe
cially as, in seasons of debility and invalidism, one has little
desire for any company that is not, in some measure, evan

gelical.

   I"On Thursday Igrew better, and to-day, Friday, have so
IImuch to be thankful for, that hope shall be able to preach

on Sunday next.

   "A line at your leisure relative to any of the subjects which

you know will interest me, will much oblige,           I. M."
         "Yours faithfully aed affectionately always,

      One other subject connected with this summer's residence
at Carlisle, and concerning which the Dean took much interest,
was the establishment of a national school.

     Much correspondence passed between the Bishop and him
self on this important matter, which, however, was finally
arranged to their mutual satisfaction, and to the great benefit

of the city of Carlisle*.
     The fifth volume of the History of the Church of Christ was

now published. Mr. Richardson had expressed by letter to
Dr. Milner, his anxious desire that the new Archbishop of
York should read it as a book " conveying the very best idea of
the real meaning of the great Protestant doctrine of justification
by faith;" Dr. Buchanan, a man whose opinion on such a point
is equally valuable, thus wrote to a friend, with reference to the

whole work: " I am glad you are reading Milner's Church His

tory. He has combined more real piety and sound sense in

* Vide Chapter XXIV.
CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. /ETAT. 59.                                                                       379

these volumes than are to be found in half the books of the

day."
     Early in the month of October, Dr. Milner spent a little

time with his niece at Hull, and seemed to enjoy the oppor
tunities of social intercourse which this visit afforded. His

deceased brother, indeed, was seldom long out of his thoughts,
but his recollections of him were, for the most part, of a sooth

ing and consolatory nature.
     The testimony of various persons, still living, would confirm

this statement.                                             , "much of the

   "I do not remember," writes Mrs.

a

     I,

                     I

                                                            it
                                                                       is,

                                                                                                    a
Dean myself. One little circumstance             however, impressed

upon my mind, and have often told                to my children. You

and when young girls, had been with him to Cottingham, on

visit to Mr. Thompson; in returning home, he was exceed

ingly cheerful, quite merry, and entertained us with variety of
anecdotes, gave us halfpence to throw out of the window to the
poor children, and made us try which of us could best tell him

how many sails the different windmills had as they went round,

and which way the sails turned. Suddenly he became thought
ful, leaned back in the carriage, and kissed us both; soon after

wards he said, Nothing in this world gives me so much satis
'
                         it
faction as to think how  tmo ahneyavesno.u' ls"  my poor    dear brother                                was
instrumental in sending                            Nothing  can be more                                cha

racteristic than this anecdote; brings Dr. Milner more vividly

to my mind than almost any other of the various recollections

of him which have been communicated to me by different

friends; his kindness to young persons, the throwing of half

pence out of the carriage window, and above all the observing
of the sails of the windmills, every circumstance recalls him to
my memory! With regard to the windmills, in particular,
a
                                                      a

                                                                    it

                                                  aI
might safely say, that in all our various journeyings together,

we seldom passed one without his making me observe an optical

deception which, at one particular point, renders                                                      very

difficult for person passing quickly in carriage, to determine

in what direction the sails are actually turning, there being

moment when they appear suddenly to change their course, and

to turn the opposite way. The allusion to his brother, recorded
.380  CHAP. XIX. A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.

in the above anecdote, is just such as Dr. Milner was in the
habit of making, and often on occasions when he had previously

appeared to be in the highest spirits.

     Having remained at Hull long enough to preach twice for
the Rev. Thomas Dikes at St. John's church, Dean Milner

pursued his journey to Cambridge, and was soon engaged in his
usual College duties. An event, however, was in preparation,

"whwicahy."greatly disturbed the ordinarily quiet "tenor of" his
381

CHAPTER XX.

Dr. Milner unexpectedly elected Vice-Chancellor. --Difficult Circumstances. --
      Satisfaction of Friends. -- Right of the University to take cognizance of
      causes between its own Members.--Extracts from Dr. Milner's Private
Memoranda. -- Communication to Dr. Brown. -- Holding of the Vice-
Chancellor's Court. -- Cause Dismissed. -- Speech of the Vice Chancellor. --
Minute of Acta Curia drawn up by Dr. Milner. --Private Letter to
Counsel. --Approbation of Friends. --Bishop of Bristol. --Riots at Cam.
bridge. --Court held at Queen's Lodge.--Sentence pronounced. --Dr. Bell's
Donation to the University for the founding of eight new Scholarships. --
Expulsion of three Students. --Public Admonition of Mr. ,  . -- Com
munication from the Bishop of Bristol. -- Extent and variety of Business. --
Devotional Studies. --Letter from Dr. Bell on the Founding of his Scholar
ships. --Commencement Sunday. -- Dr. Buchanan's Sermons. -- Approbation
of them expressed by Dr. Milner. --Correspondence with Dr. Bell. -- First
Election of Scholars upon this Foundation. --Anecdote of the Examina
tion. --Dr. Milner's Humour qualified by hU good Nature. -- Anecdote.--
L'Eau Me'dicinale. -- Attempts to discover its fngredients. -- Attention to
the interests of Religion. --Rev. Mr. Kerrich. --His Portrait of Dr. Milner.
-- His Opinions concerning Portrait Painting. -- Correspondence with the
Bishop of Carlisle. --Methodical mode of transacting Business. --John
Bowdler, Jun., Esq.-- Dr. Stewart's Method of Treating Consumption. --
Continued fondness for Mechanics.-- Clepsydra.--Letter to the Bishop of
Bristol on the death of his Son. --Vice-Chancellor's Dinners. --Mode of
conducting them. --Dr. Milner's Social Temperament. --Remarks on this

Subject by the present Bishop of Calcutta.

A.D. 1809. JETAT. 59.

In the November of this year, Dr. Milner was, most unex

pectedly, elected to fill the office of Vice-Chancellor. This
office brings with it necessarily and at all times, full occupation ;
but it fell to Dr. Milner's lot, in this Vice-Chancellorship, as in
that of 1793, to have the direction of affairs of very unusual
occurrence, and requiring, on his part, the most judicious
conduct. He had, however, already proved himself deficient
neither in judgment nor in firmness; and the University at
large felt and acknowledged the advantage of having, during
the stormy years of 1792-3, and 1809-10, such an officer to

preside over and to watch over its interests.
     With regard to this second election of Dr. Milner to fill

the Vice-Chancellor's chair, may be sufficient here to state,
it,
                     it
382 CHAP XX. A.D. 1809. jETAT. 59.

generally, that he was so elected in consequence of the

unpopularity of Dr. Brown, the Master of Christ's College,

whose turn it was to hold the office, but who was passed over
on this occasion.

   I well remember the announcement to Dr. Milner of the

event which was in preparation. Mr. Mandell, of Queen's

College, entered hastily and greeted him as Vice-Chancellor

elect. The intelligence was sudden and startling, and the

prospect of a year of laborious personal exertion, somewhat

alarming to a man of indifferent health and retired habits.
There was, however, little time for consideration or discussion ;
it was necessary, if he accepted the office, that he should make
his immediate appearance in the Senate House, and pronounce
the customary Latin speech. He did so; and the tenour of
his remarks may be gathered from the following memorandum
in his own hand-writing, docketed "Vice-Chancellor's short

spee"chIn,  November    4, 1809."  and  unexpected  honour which you
            return for  the great
Ihave conferred upon me, can only promise an entire dispo

sition to discharge faithfully the trust you have placed in my

hands. T dare not say more. I sincerely wish I may not

disappoint your expectations."

The new Vice-Chancellor was hailed by the undergraduates

with the utmost enthusiasm; and, within little more than an

hour, returned to Queen's Lodge, attended by a large body of

his constituents, who partook of an extempore collation of

fruit, &c. &c. It is almost needless to add, that in the some

what excited state of his spirits, consequent upon these circum
stances, Dr. Milner's conversational powers shone, upon this
occasion, with uncommon lustre. His friends, of course, con

gratulated him on the dignity thus thrust upon him.
I" When
            heard of your election to the office of Vice-
Chancellor," wrote Mr. Richardson, from York, " I guessed
how it was, and how you would feel with all your ' blushing

honours thick upon' you. Yet as the office might have fallen

upon you some years hence, when, through wear and tear, you

might be less able to endure the fatigues of        iIt,  am not dis

pleased at what has happened."
           CHAP. XX. A.D. 1809. JET AT. 59.                       38.3

     Dr. Milner had been but lately elected to his office when
circumstances occurred which rendered it probable, that, for

the purpose of asserting the right of the University to take
cognizance of certain causes between its own members, it
would become his duty to hold a Vice-Chancellor's court, as he
had done in the case of Mr. Frend in the year 1793.

     Some account of an affair so important in itself, and
one in which Dr. Milner was so intimately concerned, ought
certainly to find a place in this Memoir; and perhaps such
an account may be best supplied by the following memoranda,
selected and copied from a sort of journal, kept by him at

the time.

" Not long after I became V. C, Mr. R                             , of Sidney

College, applied to me to assist him in securing the cognizance

of the University in a cause between himself and the Master

of Christ's, Dr. Brown; the latter having served on him the

copy of a writ*; Mr. R             's counsel, Mr. Dampier, found
Iout that ought to make the claim, and, on the very last day

of Term, sent down an instrument for me to sign, for this
Ipurpose.  did so, early in the morning, in bed--the servant

got back in time to the court, and the rule was granted, on

Thursday, January 25, 1810.

    "Jan. 26.--I received letters from Mr. Attorney-General,

Mr. Dineley, and Mr. R             , that the jurisdiction was ours.
The Attorney-General says, I must preside at the trial.

"After the 26th of January, notwithstanding the informa
Ition received,
                 waited several days in expectation of some
Iformal notice, or precept from K. B., and at last wrote to
IMessrs. D. to know whether was to expect any more formal

notice.

    I I" Jan. 31. -- receive their answer, that should receive no

further notice -- for that Dr. B.'s solicitor had had formal notice

of the allowance of the cognizance.

R--* The cause of complaint was that Mr.  had mentioned           in the Senate
                                                                  of Dr. Brown
House the reasons which induced him to vote against the election

to the office of Vice-Chancellor.
384 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1809. jETAT. 59.

    " I waited till February 3 in the evening, (thinking that
Dr. B. would apply to me), and then, I sent him this note, by

the University Marshal.

"'Reverend Sir,                         " ' Queen's College Lodge,
    " ' Though I understand
                                                   February 3, 1810.
                             that your solicitor has been duly

made acquainted with the late decision of the Court of King's

Bench, respecting the claim of cognizance in the cause pending

between yourself and the Rev. Mr. R. of Sidney College, and

that, in consequence of that decision, the said cause is before

Ithe Vice-Chancellor of this University, think it proper to
Iinform you, that, as soon as circumstances will permit, intend

to hold a Court for the purpose of trying the aforesaid cause ;

and that you shall be duly informed by the usual process of

the University Court, of the time and place fixed upon for the

trial, in order that you may appear there and allege your

complaint against the said Mr. R.  "{I am, &c,

                                   "'Isaac Milner,
" ' To the Rev. Dr. Brown.'        " ' Vice-Chancellor.

   " In the mean time I had written to Sir William. Wynne,

asking several questions."

    This letter, with several others, to the Attorney-General,
Serjeant Lens, &c, although highly characteristic, and exhibit
ing in a striking manner Dr. Milner's acuteness, as well as his

conscientious and straightforward mode of conducting the
affair, it is unnecessary to insert; since the main facts and

circumstances of the case are stated in other documents which

are laid before the reader.

    It may be mentioned, that Dr. Milner, whose object it

invariably was to transact in the very best way possible, any
business committed to his charge, took more than one journey
to London, for the purpose of personal consultation with his

legal advisers.

     The Vice-Chancellor's Court was held in the Senate House

on the 14th day of February. Dr. Brown did not appear, and
              CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.                                 385

the cause between him and the Rev. Mr. R. was consequently

dismissed *.

Before he finally dissolved the Court, the Vice-Chancellor

delivered a speech, the whole of which is marked by con

summate ability. A part of this admirable and manly address,

with its impressive conclusion, is here inserted.

    After pronouncing, that " the cause, so far as it" was " the
personal complaint of Dr. Brown against Mr. R." was
" completely at an end," Dr. Milner thus proceeded :--

   I"Soon after I was elected Vice-Chancellor, was informed

by Mr. R., that Dr. Brown had sued out of the King's Bench,
a writ of trespass against him, and that Mr. R. claimed the

jurisdiction of the Vice-Chancellor's Court, there to be heard
IIin his defence. And here (before proceed)
                                               desire it to be
Imost distinctly remembered, that in all have to say, I mean

to make no observation on the supposed cause of the complaint.

The cause of the complaint has not been and is not before me.
My observations, therefore, are confined entirely to the juris

diction of the University^ --to the nature of that jurisdiction --
to the endeavours that have been made to evade it--and to

the means which have been successfully opposed to those

endeavours.

    " It is well known, that when I was Vice-Chancellor in 1793,

a very troublesome business came before me in the Vice-Chan

cellor's Court, and that that business, through the kind help of

my assessors and the University counsel, was conducted with

good effect. But there was nothing in that long contest which

could, in the smallest degree, teach me the right manner of

protecting the jurisdiction of the University. From the first
Iagitation of this present affair,
                                    was perfectly convinced,

(because our charters were familiar to me) either that the juris
diction belonged, in this instance, to the court of the Vice-

Chancellor, or that it belonged to
              is
                            it,

                                            a
                                                                           ;
                                    in no one instance

whatever.                                      member of the

    " If either of the litigating parties be

University, the jurisdiction with the Vice-Chancellor and

* For some farther notices of this affair, see the next Chapter.

                                               2
                                                  c
38G CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 6O.

therefore, a fortiori, when both of them are members. I could

devise no reason, or even conjecture, to support a doubt upon

the subject.

    "But a jurisdiction may be lost, either by not making the

claim at the right time, or not making it in a right manner.

And here, so far from being disposed to claim any commenda

tion for wisdom, or activity, in securing, on this occasion, the

privileges of the University, I am ready to confess, that if the
thing were to be repeated, I should use far more promptitude
Iin taking the proper steps, than have done, in this case ; and

should be more on my guard against losing our academical

rights, either by mistake or neglect, than I have been. In
I Ianother instance, informed as now suppose myself to be,

should myself, immediately upon the application of a defendant,

provided the cause were one really cognizable in this Court,
apply to the King's Bench, and not leave the application to be

made by the defendant.

    " Be however, remembered and understood, that the delay
     it,

                 ;

                            I
                                                      a

                                                   it I
                                                         I
on my part arose altogether from delicacy which certainly

carried too far and the consequence was, that though lost
not one moment's time in exerting myself to make the claim

of cognizance, the very instant was informed that was my

duty so to do, yet when my claim was actually made, in the
King's Bench, the term was within an hour or two of expiration."

     Here follow some remarks upon the consultations which

had been held, the opinions of counsel, and " the great zeal and

ability" with which, on the 25th of the preceding January, the

Attorney-General, Sir V.             Gibbs, counsel for   the University,
had, in the Court of King's                              all the subtleties
                                     Bench, " answered

which were brought forward by Mr. Marryat, the counsel for

Dr. Brown."
    " The Court of King's Bench, on that day," continued the

Vice-Chancellor, "pronounced unanimously for the jurisdiction

of the University, and our counsel informed me that ought
                                     a
not                  the holding of
                    whoever reads                                    I
     "toNodewla, y                     court.
                                     with any  degree  of attention,    the

oaths which we all take at our matriculation, and also the oaths

of admission to our several degrees, cannot but be struck with
   CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.                                       387

the very solemn manner in which the consciences of the jurors

are impressed with the duty of observing our statutes, ordi

nances, privileges,  and approved customs.       which       has    the  most
                      privileges, perhaps, that
    " Among these

unexceptionable validity, is the jurisdiction of the Vice-Chan

cellor's Court; not only as that jurisdiction is stated and

explained by several positive Statutes ; but as it is confirmed by
repeated Charter, and by Act of Parliament; which is more

than can be said of many of our other Statutes.

    " Certainly it is not for me to judge another man's

conscience in the business of an oath to be taken, by him, on

Iany occasion. These very solemn transactions, are, am sorry

to say, but too often contemplated with very lax and superficial

I Iideas of the duties thereby enjoined ; but this will say, that

myself remember, that not many years ago, a member of this

University, high in situation and degree, very seriously hesitated

respecting the prosecution of another member of the Senate,

even for a sum of money, in any other place than the Vice-

Chancellor's Court : and when it was observed to him that he

seemed more scrupulous than was necessary, he replied, 'An

oath, Sir, is a very solemn and serious thing ;' alluding to the

oaths which we take, at matriculation and degree time.

    " I trust that every one who hears me, will think that these

observations, are by no means, on this occasion, out of time or

out of place. For the fact that not only doctor of divinity
   a
                        is,
                                                          a
has prosecuted master of arts, in the Court of King's Bench,

for an offence cognizable here, by the privileges of the Univer
sity, --but also, that the prosecutor, after he must have known

that the cognizance of the Vice-Chancellor's Court had been

claimed in form, both by the defendant and by the Judge of

the Academical Court, has continued, for some weeks together,

to harass the defendant with the prospect of suit in the King's
                     ;

                              iIf
                                                           a
                                                                                              a
Bench has put the University to great trouble and expense in
;

defending its just rights and to the very last moment, has, by
his counsel, --and that counsel,
                                  am rightly informed,

gentleman utterly unacquainted with the customs, laws, or

privileges, of this or perhaps any University --raised up and

urged every subtilty that ingenuity could invent thus endea
                                                             ;

                                                             2      2
                                                                 o
388 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.

vouring to take advantage of any slight informality or omission

that might be made by a Vice-Chancellor, not used to Courts of

Law, or legal questions; and all this, for the express purpose of

depriving a defendant of his just rights, and the University of

its legal jurisdiction.

    " In regard to Dr. Brown's complaint against Mr. R., or

IMr. R.'s defence, have already observed, that on them, I

make not the slightest remark. Sitting in this Court, I am
Iauthorized to say, that know nothing either of one or of the
Iother -- they are not before me.
                                         am simply pleading for the

jurisdiction of this Court, and the attention that is due, from

members of this University, to that jurisdiction. To these
Ipoints     Iconfine myself: and hope, that due reflection on

what has happened in this case, will induce all persons who

may in future be more immediately concerned in similar

matters, to remember, with effect, the obligations they are

actually under, to defend the privileges of the University, to

which they belong, and which they have sworn to support."
* * * * Here follow answers to various objections made,

or supposed to be made, against the jurisdiction of the Vice-

Chancellor's Court. Afterwards, Dr.      Milner proceeds thus  ;
                                         domestic tribunal of
    " Farther, I maintain, that this                           the
Vice-Chancellor is a very wise institution --a privilege of the

royal bounty, very much to be esteemed, and for which we

ought to be very grateful ; for nothing but discretion in the use

of the privilege, is required, in order to render it exceedingly

beneficial  to this  University.   from  time immemorial,  and its
             Court    has existed
    " This

advantages have been found so conspicuous, that its powers and

privileges have not only been extended and confirmed, by

repeated Charters from the Crown, but, at length, the Grand

Charter of Queen Elizabeth was itself confirmed by Act of

Parliament, and the jurisdiction of this tribunal thus rendered

both efficient and exclusive ; and the peculiar reason given in

the Charter is, that the studies of this University might not be

disturbed or impeded by the ordinary proceedings of Courts of
Law ; which, it is well-known, often prove tedious and expen
sive." * * * *
           CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.                       389

     After speaking of certain penal Statutes, the Vice-Chancellor

thus proceeds ; " If any man should ask me whether any instances

Iare to be found, in which these penal Statutes, to which refer,
Ihave been enforced ? answer the question, by asking such an

inquirer, whether, in the annals of the University, a single

instance can be found, wherein the claim of cognizance has been

resisted, when that claim has been made ?                        I

    " If I mistake not, the present is the very first instance.

am sorry to add, that not only this breach of privilege has been

attempted by Dr. Brown, but that the attempt has been
aggravated in several ways." * * * *

   "It now only remains for me to observe, in conclusion,

that though 1 have pronounced and do pronounce this cause,

between Dr. Brown and Mr. R., considered as a personal affair,

to be completely and finally terminated, yet this my final

determination does not preclude me from taking it most

Iseriously into consideration, how far may, or may not, be yet,

in duty bound not to overlook that positive violation of the

Statutes, which has recently taken place, and which, if it had
passed unnoticed, or if the violator had succeeded in the late

contest in the Court of King's Bench, would certainly have

proved a very material step towards the complete loss of the

important privilege of our academical jurisdiction.

    " Who is there among us who does not know, that the said

jurisdiction is, by some persons, viewed with a very jealous eye ?

and that late attempts have been made to wrest it from the

University ? Surely then, this was not the moment to endanger

the jurisdiction of our Academical Court, in the manner which

has now    been laid before you.     expressed  myself  both  freely

    " If,  on this occasion, I have

and strongly, all candid persons will, I trust, ascribe both my

expressions and my sentiments to the nature of the office in

Iwhich am placed, and the weighty subject under consider

ation.                Ito which have alluded, as having been

    "The Statutes,    justify all that I have said ; and the pe

grievously violated,

nalties which they hold forth will be found sufficiently heavy, if

I should be compelled to inflict them.
390 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. CO.

   I" I hope, need not add, that as a private individual, and
Imemher of a small college, no man upon earth wishes to live

more peaceably, or in a more retired manner, than do, and
have done, in this place, for many years.

    " But if the University, from any circumstance or combina

tion of circumstances, have judged it proper to call me from my

retirement, unexpectedly, to a public station, and that station

should be found, in any respect, difficult, I have still, no fears

of receiving, from my electors, a candid construction of my

Iproceedings; as can most fully promise them every exertion in
Imy power, of care and diligence ; and, that whether shall, or

shall not, be so fortunate as to succeed, my objects, in the
administration of justice and the execution of the Statutes of the

University, shall invariably be, to temper a vigorous enforce
ment of our salutary academical laws, with all possible modera

tion and impartiality."

     The following brief " Minute of Acta Curiee," furnished by
Dr. Milner, from his own notes, to the University Registrary,

gives a concise account of this important proceeding.

    "At eleven o'clock, on the 14th day of February, Dr.

Brown was again called thrice ; and not appearing, nor (upon
inquiry) any one appearing for him, the Vice-Chancellor, finally)
dismissed the cause and dissolved the Court.

    " But before he left the chair, the Vice-Chancellor made a

few observations, for the information of the University, on th;
proceedings which were prior to the holding of this court -- viz.,
the copy of the writ served on Mr. R. --the claim of cogni
zance made both by him, and by the University --the care and
skill of Mr. Hunt, the Vice-Chancellor's Assessor, in advising
the manner of making the said claim, as also the great attention
of Mr. Attorney-General, and of the University Counsel, Mr.
Sergeant Lens and Dr. Leycester, in their private consultations
respecting this business, --and lastly, the zeal and ability
displayed by them, in the Court of King's Bench, when the
points of law came to be argued.

    " The Vice-Chancellor added, that he conceived the juris

diction of the University Court, granted by Queen Elizabeth,
and confirmed by subsequent Act of Parliament, to be a very
           CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. /ETAT. 60.                                          391

important jurisdiction; and that the University was under

considerable obligations to all its counsel, and, particularly, to

Mr. Attorney-General, for their exertions in protecting and

securing the same.

    "The Vice-Chancellor, before he concluded, explained, how,

in the manner of communicating to Dr. Brown the intimation

for his appearance, he had used all possible respect and civility

--and observed, farther, that he was not precluded from most

seriously considering, how far he might, or might not, be yet in

duty bound, not to overlook the violation of Statutes which had

taken place."

     Dr. Milner's notes, with reference to this affair, afford proof

of the very great industry with which he searched for precedents

bearing upon the point in question, and collected all the histo

rical evidence respecting it; and the questions which, as it

appears from his private memoranda, he put to his counsel,

bear decisive marks, not only of acuteness and ability, but also,

of the most conscientious anxiety to execute, as became him,

the important duty committed to his charge.

      Besides, what may be called, his official statements to the

University counsel, Dr. Milner addressed to them a private
communication ; " not choosing," as he said, " to load the brief

with observations, which, though written in haste, and expressed

in a manner somewhat loose and desultory," might " yet have

their uses in preparing the minds of the counsel to form a

complete judgment on the brief transmitted to them;" and

expressing his hope, that "in this step," he committed "any

fault or irregularity," his "good intentions" might "be his
is
                              if,

                                            it

                                                                                 ;
apology."

    It unnecessary to insert here the whole of this commu

nication, able and interesting though be but the following

brief extract will be read with much interest.
    "Dr. Milner was unfortunately chosen Vice-Chancellor on

the 4th of November last, in the place of Dr. Brown. This

has been represented as originating in difference of political
           a
                                                           a
sentiments and parties.
" Nothing can be more untrue.
" Perhaps
           more decisive proof of the misrepresentation
392       CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.

cannot be desired than this fact, viz., that only ten of those

persons who, at the last election, voted for Lord Henry Petty,

voted for Dr. Brown to be "Vice-Chancellor, whereas eleven

of the same Lord H. P.'s friends voted for Dr. Milner."
"If* * *
          any persons shall still say that this court is

of no use, the Vice-Chancellor requests them to reflect on

what passed in Frend's case seventeen years ago. There

were persons who talked so then: but, be it remembered,
what was the situation of the country at that moment -- how

many irreligious and seditious proceedings of various societies
there were in different parts of the kingdom-- and how much of

a similar spirit was then at work in this University. That trial

and its consequences put a complete termination, so far as this

place is concerned, to all proceedings of that kind. Nothing of

a similar nature has arisen since that period ; and the Vice-

Chancellor firmly believes, that not half a dozen Academics are

now to be found, who do not, on a review of the University

proceedings at that time, cordially approve of them.

"The Vice-Chancellor conceives it to be his duty to give

the counsel all possible information, to hide nothing from them
-- and to declare his own readiness to stand firm at his post,

wha"tevMearkemabyutbehissariodaodf  him,   or his proceedings.
                                    clear  and he will go in it.
" If nothing can be done, it will not be his fault.
                                                                            The

present moment he conceives to be a very important sera in the

history of the University ; and indeed, nothing can be done,
                                           * if,
                                               *
                                                    *
the Vice-Chancellor will have to lament that the crisis took

place in his unfortunate year."

    "The Vice-Chancellor commits himself entirely to the

direction of his counsel, and afterwards to the judgment of all

impartial members of the University."

    It scarcely necessary to say, that Dr. Milner's Universityis

friends entirely approved of his conduct throughout the whole
of this important affair.

     Dr. Mansel, Master of Trinity College and Bishop of
Bristol, being, in consequence of slight accident, confined to
his room on the 14th of February, the day of the holding of the
court, wrote to the Vice-Chancellor as follow
                                           a
                                                                  s

                                                                         :
                 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.  393

" My dear Dean,       " Trinity Lodge, February, 1810.
I" A cause in your hands can never want such assistance as
Icould give, nor do think it possible that it could be in any

other hands with so great advantage either to the University,

or to the public.

     " Bel"ieMveymdee,arwVitihceg-rCehaat ntcruetllhora, ndevreergfaardit,hfully yours,
                                                       "W. Bristol."

     To hold courts" seems, during the Vice-Chancellorships of
Dr. Milner, to have been his peculiar fate.

     The following memorandum, extracted from a sort of journal
kept by Dr. Milner during this year of office, needs no elu

cidation.

    " At a Court holden in the Lodge of Queen's College, on the
thirtieth day of March, 1810, --present, Isaac Milner, D.D. Vice-
Chancellor, Dr. Pearce, Dr. Barnes, Dr. Craven, Dr. Douglas,
Dr. Mansel (Bishop of Bristol), Dr. Cory, Dr. Gretton, and
Dr. Pearson, with W. A. Pemberton, the University Reg*. --in a

cause of discipline and correction arising from complaint" (of
riotous behaviour in the streets at midnight, &c.,) "against

three students of Trinity College, and one student of St. John's

College*, the defendants, having heard the charge made by the

said commissioners, pleaded guilty to the same; upon which

the Vice-Chancellor, in the presence of the above-mentioned

assessors, pronounced the following sentence:
     " That the above-mentioned defendants be severally fined in

the sum of fifty pounds each. That  be rusticated for

one whole year. That  be suspended from taking his

degree for one whole year from the time at which he might

otherwise have taken it. That and be sus

pended from taking their degrees for the space of six months,

from the time at which they might otherwise have proceeded to

their degrees."

* The names of these gentlemen are, here, for obvious reasons, suppressed.
394  CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. MTAT. 60.

    If the punishments in these cases appear severe, it should

be observed, that the offences were very serious; and that soon

after entering upon his office of "Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Milner
had been convinced, by circumstances, of the absolute necessity
of drawing closer the bonds of discipline.

    It is pleasant to turn to more agreeable subjects of con

templation.

    A letter from the Rev. Dr. Bell, dated "April 9th, 1810,"
opened with Dr. Milner, as Vice-Chancellor, a communication

which ended in the munificent gift, (not bequest,) to the
University of 15,200/. in the 3 per cent. Consols., for the
purpose of founding eight new scholarships ; the scholars to be
the sons or orphans of such clergymen of the Church of
England as might be unable to bear the whole expense of their
education at the University. Less pleasing matters, however,
claimed, in the mean time, the Vice-Chancellor's attention.

     The following memorandum has reference to an affair
which, although of great importance, needs not here to be

dilated upon.

     "June 14th. Mr.  , Mr.            , and Lord         ,

called at Queen's Lodge about one o'clock, to say that they

appealed against the sentence of Tuesday last.

    "The Vice-Chancellor answered, that he should act ac

cording to the duties of his office."

     The sentence above-mentioned was a sentence of expulsion,
in consequence of disorderly conduct; and having been pro
nounced by the Vice-Chancellor, with his usual caution and
consideration, was carried into effect.

     The trial of these gentlemen had taken place on the twelfth
day of June; another of their party, concerned in the same
irregularities, but, as it seemed, a less daring violator of disci
pline, had been, at the same time, sentenced to receive, from
the Vice-Chancellor, a public admonition.

     Dr. Milner was at least as kind and considerate as he was

firm ; but this duty having devolved upon him, he felt himself

bound to discharge it efficiently. Here follows the " Admoni

tion," which he delivered on this occasion.
                  CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.             395

"Mr.                I, am now called upon, pursuant to your

sentence, to admonish you against a repetition of the irregu

larities for which you have been censured.

   "I. My first observation is, that since there has lately

appeared such a disposition to misrepresent the words and the

conduct of the rulers of the University, I, (in imitation of the

practice of the higher Courts of Law on the most solemn

occasions,) have judged it both most safe and most expedient

Ito put down in writing, the several remarks which think it

proper to make in the course of this admonition.

    "You and others were charged by the regular officers of

this University with having broken its laws, and having acted,

in many respects, contrary to its good order and discipline.

    " You have been heard, in your defence, with great patience;

and, in regard to your sentence, the greatest lenity and modera

I Ition has been  exercised towards you in particular.  body  of the
                    could report to this respectable
    " wish

Senate, that the conduct of yourself and your associates, since

the commission of your principal fault, had been such as

Ibecame your situation ; but sorry indeed am to observe, that

both since you were summoned to appear before me, and even

since the respective sentences have been pronounced, the con

duct of several, (I know not whether of all,) has been marked

with the most unfeeling and unparallelled effrontery.
" You, Mr.
                    , in particular, have been active, (jointly

indeed with others,) in distributing, on the very day of the

sentence, strong liquor to the populace, thereby producing in

the town much intoxication, tumult, and confusion.

   "I confess that this proceeding appeared to me, at first,

almost incredible.

    " If, indeed, in your own college, you had gained a victory
in a hard contest with some competitors in learning --or in
                                                              a if,

                                                                        a
more public examination you had merited the place of high
wrangler -- or had gained medal, or a University scholarship --
                    I
                                  ;a
nay, suppose even that an unexpected accession of wealth had
come into your possession in any of these, as in many other

similar instances,  could understand how  it            might happen,

that the heart of an ingenuous youth, (warmed and expanded
396  CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.

by success,) might feel a desire that several of the poorer
inhabitants of the town should be made to partake in the plea

sure of the day.

     "But, Sir, that men under such discreditable censures, as

were yourself and your associates, should celebrate their vices
and their public conviction, by the distribution of strong
liquor, displays, to my mind, a state of inconsiderate impenitence
and hardness, unexampled in Academical history.

    " II. Such was the contumacy of the rioters, that on the

second day after the passing of the sentence, the very day

on which an attempt was made by certain persons concerned,
to appeal against the justice of that sentence, one of those per

Isons certainly was seen, and believe three of them were seen,

driving backwards and forwards in the streets, blowing horns,
and otherwise acting directly in opposition to good order and
the express regulations of the University. And the gentleman
most conspicuous on this occasion, was the same person who
had actually rescued a man who had struck the Pro-proctor,
and was then in custody.

    III." In reflecting upon this business, it was impossible

not to take into the account the general state of the University

for some weeks past.

   "It is notorious, that twenty-four hours seldom passed,

without some very considerable breach of discipline, some riot,
some tumult, some confusion. To such a height had these
disorders proceeded, that the University found it necessary to
increase their usual number of public officers; and, to their
great praise, it is well known that several of our most respec

table members, --men highly distinguished by their good sense
and their acquirements, --have, with the most laudable and

disinterested zeal, volunteered their services on this occasion.

    " Indeed, the indefatigable labours both of the Proctors and

Pro-proctors, by night and by day, conducted with the utmost

lenity and moderation, are beyond all praise. If they have

erred at all, it is in having carried the spirit of mildness and of
connivance too far. And here, were it not presumption in me

Ito interfere with the duties of others, might be disposed to

intimate, that both in our domestic and our public discipline, a
             CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.  397

more strict attention to the infliction of the lesser censures, for

the lesser faults, and these censures gradually increasing in

severity, according to circumstances, would lead to the im

provement of our Academical regulations.

    "At least the improvement here suggested, would have this
good effect. It would take away from persons of disingenuous
Iminds that handle which, constantly observe, they are dis

posed, on occasion of any vigorous exertion of authority, to lay
hold of, ' that they have never before been publicly censured.'

    " Undergraduates, I say, who have been notorious, almost

every day of their residence in the University, for idleness,

rioting, and immoralities, never fail to plead their perfect
innocence, provided, that, through the kindness of their Tutors,
the mild government of the Masters and Superintendents of
their Colleges, and the lenity of the University Officers, their

multiplied irregularities have been connived at, or lightly

passed over.

    " IV. After all, it is my great satisfaction to be enabled to

state, with a considerable degree of confidence, that those who

have been guilty of the repeated breaches of order, of which we

have, lately, had so much reason to complain, are few ; compa

Iratively speaking, they are very few ; and am convinced, that

leaving these few persons out of the account, there is, in the

general body of our Undergraduates, a laudable disposition to
be attentive to the studies, and obedient to the laws of the

University.
" V. However, with regard to the sad samples which I have
I Iseen -- the few to whom
             now allude -- am much inclined to

pronounce their cases to be such as to afford little prospect of

cure, while they remain on Academical ground. They will talk

largely of their honour and gentlemanlike behaviour, and yet break

their word ; persist in untruths, quibble and cavil, and misrepre

sent,  and  display every disingenuous practice without a blush.
       The  lenity that has been shown to them, they construe
    "

into an argument in favour of their innocence ; they review each

other's irregularities with applause, and congratulate themselves

if they can but just escape the punishment threatened by the

laws which they affect to despise. It will scarcely be believed,
398 CHAI\ XX. A.D. 1810. .ETAT. 6O.

that the offender above mentioned, he who, by absolute violence,

obstructed one of the Pro-proctors in the discharge of his duty,

had the supreme confidence, even after his conviction, to assert

to me that he had committed ' no offence whatever !'
    " VI. Let me not, however, be misunderstood.
                                                                                       I repeat  I it,

these instances are but few and am satisfied, that the wisest
             ;

                   I

                                                                        :
thing which parents or guardians can do in such unhappy cases,

is  to remove the pupils from College, before they finally dis

grace themselves and their relatives, and before they con
taminate persons of better dispositions and habits for some of

these, who do so much mischief here, may, perhaps, in due

time, and under different and stricter regimen, become useful
       is a
members of the community; but the mischief which they do in

the University, incalculable.

    "That nineteen out of twenty,  had almost said ninety-
                               a

                                        (I
                                                      (if

                                                                                    ;
nine out of hundred,) are of different stamp, our public and
    a

private examinations fully demonstrate to my mind.
    " Such praise-worthy undergraduates,
                                          such are now

present.) address with the greatest satisfaction becauseI
know they will both listen to advice with respect and gratitude,
and follow the directions which they cannot but approve, with

resolution and perseverance.   say, verily believe, that the
                               I

                                     a

                                      I
main body of our students are of very different stamp. They
mind their proper business, they are exemplary in their con

duct, and, on public occasions, many of them distinguish them
selves by their literary attainments. Of such men, in their

future life, both the University and the country cannot fail to

augur well.                    my duty to put even these praise
                              that their own reputation suffers
   "VII. Nevertheless,

worthy students in mind,
             I

                   it

                     I is
through the misconduct of that small class of disorderly and

turbulent Academics, which have been describing.

    " For though, as have observed, the best and by far the

most numerous part of our scholars spend their time, for the

most part, in their rooms, and there give their attention to their

studies, the turbulent and disorderly appear, on all occasions,

both in the streets and in the villages in fact, they are every
                                   ;:
where, except where they ought to be and they thus impress
CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. fiO.                                              399

too much of a belief that our students, in general, are riotous

and immoral.

   II" Once more then, say, that verily believe, it is not so ;
though I certainly state this distinction much more in the hope

of guarding our decent students from the infection of the dis

obedient, and from the imputation of belonging to a class of

indolent, disorderly, contumacious grassatores, (as our statutes
denominate them) than in any expectation of stimulating these

last-mentioned persons to a salutary reformation.

    " VIII. My advice therefore, and my earnest exhortation to

                            is

                                                it

                                                            is,
                                                                          is
the main body of our respectable scholars,         that they do

entirely, or as much as possible, avoid the company of such

men. Malorum contubernium facit malos. There is, in the

practice] of such men, nothing to admire, much less,                          there

anything to imitate: there  nothing in             that should even

excite laughter or merriment. So far from possessing the

virtues of discreet, sober, diligent Academics, there are not,

even in their vices, any of those effusions of humour and

genius, which have, sometimes, appeared among the very

blamable irregularities of certain characters.

    " Breaking of lamps and windows, shouting and roaring,

blowing of horns, galloping up and down the streets on horse
back or in carriages, fighting and mobbing in the town and

neighbouring villages; in the day-time breaking down fences

and riding over corn-fields, then eating, drinking, and becoming

intoxicated at taverns or ale-houses and, lastly, in the night
a
frequenting houses of ill-fame, resisting the lawful authorities,
                  it
                                                ;and often putting the peaceable inhabitants of the town into
                                           agreat alarm; -- these are among the practices which these
gentlemen exhibit for your imitation; and these are the

sallies of genius and spirit which, they suppose, will call forth

your admiration.                                   true value upon his

    " IX. Let every student, who sets

own reputation, guard against the snares of such men. They

delight in making you like themselves; for though, in their
consciences, they cannot but respect your learning, and morals,

and decorous deportment, yet becomes you always to remem

ber, that vice has secret pleasure in bringing down the con

duct of the virtuous to its own disgraceful standard.
400 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.

I" say then, let every considerate scholar in this University

have the good sense to perceive, that when we are discouraging
the disobedient, the riotous, and gross offenders of every kind,

we are, in fact, pleading his own cause, and supporting his own

credit and personal reputation.

   "It is the direct interest of every scholar, who has any

pretensions to parts, morals, or learning, that he should be

distinguished and separated from the turbulent, the riotous,

I Iand, fear, may add, the almost incurable.

    " X. In regard to parents, or guardians of respectable youth,
one might ask, whether they will not rejoice to hear, that

some care is taken by the Governors of the University, to
discredit examples of indolence and riot, and to resist the

Icontagion of vice. Nay, will not hesitate to add, what, I am

sure, must be true, that many a discreet and virtuous under
graduate will secretly behold, with entire approbation, the
wholesome execution of the laws, although, from false shame or

delicacy, or from peculiarity of situation, he may not venture

openly to applaud the censures which he believes to be both

just and salutary : he must be glad to see idleness, immorality,
and rioting discouraged, though he himself, from want of
experience, or want of courage, may not feel himself entitled

to stand forward openly in the support of sobriety and

decorum.                                                        ,

    " XI. I do not find, that the faulty conduct of Mr.

who now stands before me, to receive the admonition of the

Vice-Chancellor, was aggravated by the use of any violent or

improper language ; and I trust that his general character is of

a better stamp than that of several others, whose sentences

have been more severe. These circumstances certainly had

great weight in the adjudication of his punishment; and I

would hope, that the lenity and consideration of the Court may

operate upon his mind, by inducing, in his future deportment, so
long as he remains in the University, a spirit of greater respect
and obedience to the laws.

    " With me, it is an abiding principle of action, never, so

long as there exist reasonable hopes of the reformation of

any offender, to disgrace such a man, more than is absolutely

necessary, by any public censure.
           CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. /ETAT. 6O.                             401

   "XII. I should, however, in the present instance, be

extremely out of duty, if I could omit to mark with the

strongest disapprobation, that part of Mr.                    's conduct

in which, after the sentence on Tuesday last, he joined with

some others, as aforesaid, in the distribution of strong liquor to

Ithe populace ; and (what much aggravates the offence) when

mentioned to him the indecency of such behaviour, it appeared

Ito me that made little or no impression either on his feelings,

or his understanding.

   " However, it is with satisfaction that I collect, from the

penitential expressions which he has used to-day, that there is

fair room to hope better things from his future conduct.

   " XIII. How dreadfully has the spirit of insubordination

increased within the last twenty or thirty years throughout the

whole country ! No wonder, then, that we should feel          it       even
                                                                  it,
in these retirements.

     "Several persons here well remember the very deep anda
decorous contrition,' the public acknowledgments, and thea
determined resolution, expressed by Fellow-Commoner of
Trinity College, (now an eminent statesman and a peer of theI
realm,) who, when under academical censure, judged no-wise
degrading to his character to make open, voluntary, confessionis
of his fault, in manner far beyond what was required of him,
and with an admirable firmness and modesty, to declare his
fixed determination never more, while he lived, to be seen in

liquor, or to repeat his offence.

    " XIV. add a single word, in conclusion, by way of

correcting an erroneous notion which, find, has gone abroad
among some of the students viz., that the authority of the
Pro-Proctors not the same with that of the Proctors them
                          ;

                                   I

selves.                   is

    " Now, so far as respects the preservation of peace, good

order, and discipline, their authority precisely the same; and
disobedience towards them, and resistance of their authority,
                                                            2
exposed to the very same censures and punishments, as dis         a

obedience and resistance to the Proctors themselves.                           ;
" XV. Mr.
                       ,  let what has passed be                                isserious

warning to you to avoid irregularities of every, species and

                                                            D
402 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.

learn, as long as you live, to respect the laws of the community

to which you belong. A repetition of these offences will,

infallibly, be attended with much more grievous conse

quences."
     This Admonition is admirable as a composition ; but it is

                          it
                                         it,

                                                                  it

                                                                                       ;
difficult, from the mere reading of to conceive an adequate

idea of the effect which       produced, when delivered in the

majestic manner, and with the sonorous yet melodious voice of

Dr. Milner.

Members of the University, of all ranks, expecting an

address of extraordinary excellence, flocked to hear                                      indeed,

the oldest persons remarked that the Schools had never, within

their memory, been known, on any similar occasion, to be

so full.

The Bishop of Bristol, who, having been confined to his

Lodge by indisposition at the time of its delivery, had requested

to be allowed to reada    returned                                                   to the Vice-Chancellor,
                                it,
with the following note.
                                                 it
" My dear Sir,                                                                       " Trinity Lodge, Monday.
" Thank you thousand times for this gratification. Never

was there anything more to the purpose, more dignified, and

more worthy of the University, and of such an officer as now

presides over it.              this and what comforts and

    " Oh what
          !
                         !

                         a
                                               is

                                                                                  !
                   consulship

blessings we may derive from your firm conduct, and manly

administration                      " Ever yours,

                                                                                          W. B."

     So entirely did the University at large concur in the opinion
expressed by Dr. Mansel concerning Dr. Milner's "firm con

duct and manly administration," that the idea of requesting
him to consent to continue to occupy the Vice-Chancellor's

chair during the succeeding year, was seriously entertained.

     Dr. Milner's private journal of this period discloses
multitude and variety of concerns which, to a man of less
energy, or less method in the conduct of his affairs, would have
been quite overwhelming. There are memoranda of applications
from clergymen (unknown as well as known to Dr. Milner)
                a
                                                                                                         a
CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. /ETAT. 60.                                403

for " worthy curates ;" applications for testimonials from

persons desiring public stations of almost all kinds ; inquiries
from parents about their sons; notices of new philosophical

and mathematical instruments, for which the inventors desired

his patronage ; in short, applications of almost every imagi
nable kind ; and this, in addition to his regular college and
Carlisle business, and to the ordinary routine of duties which
belonged to him in his capacity of Vice-Chancellor. In the
midst, however, of this variety of occupation, his devotional

studies were not neglected. It was his habit to make short

notes upon whatever struck him in the course of his scriptural
reading ; and these notes are often exceedingly full of meaning.
The following memorandum occurs at this time.

                   " I. Pet. ii. 1 .
If" 1. Two sorts and no more.
                                  any have not tasted that

the Lord is gracious, let them go to work without loss of time.
     " 2. Mind and grow. Don't mistake religious forms, and

religious acquaintances, for religion.  stability, activity ;  all

    " 3. Living stone. Firmness, life,
these -- yet disallowed of men."

     Dr. Milner was of course this year unable to attend the
meeting of the chapter at Carlisle ; and it was therefore neces
sary to transact, by letter, the mass of business which devolved

upon him as Dean. The multifarious concerns thus arranged,
constituted a heavy addition to the weight of occupation which

this year, of necessity, devolved upon him.
     One important public concern which Dr. Milner had at this

time upon his hands, was the correspondence with Dr. Bell,
concerning his princely donation to the University, of above
fifteen thousand pounds, for the founding of scholarships.

     On this subject Dr. Bell thus wrote to him, from

" Dear Sir,        of yesterday,    " Dean's Yard, Westminster,
    " Your favour
                                       Tuesday, June 26th, 1810.

                                  I(which has anticipated what

should have written to you this day, or to-morrow) very much

surprised me, but merits my particular thanks.

                                                2 d2
404 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. /ETAT. 60.

   " I hold myself exceedingly obliged to you and Dr. Pearce,

for the close thought which you have employed in improving

my plan ; and by which you have indeed so much improved it,

that I do not think it admits of being made better.
    " As I perfectly understood all your proposed alterations,

and at once determined to adopt them all, I did not write to

you about them, well knowing how occupied you are with

business.

   "The plan, containing all your improvements, is in the

hands of a conveyancer, for him to draw it up in the best
manner, in legal form, and mode of expression." * * * *

    " From this state of things, I make no doubt you will agree

with me in thinking, that it would be highly improper to make

any public mention of it in the Commemoration on Sunday

next*, when the donation will not in fact have taken place.
But 1 see no impropriety in your giving notice to the Tutors of

the several colleges, before the University separates, that such

a foundation will take place without delay; that they may

prepare themselves to give the electors the requisite information

relating to their pupils, when the first election shall come on,

in November or December next.
     " Accept my best thanks, dear Sir, for the favours you have

conferred upon me, and believe me to be,

           "Very truly,
           " Your greatly obliged, and
                           " Most obedient servant,
                                          " William Bell.
      " To the Very Rev.
"  Vice-Chancellor of the  the Dean of Carlisle,
                           University of Cambridge."

      Commencement Sunday, was now, as the foregoing letter

intimates, near at hand. The Commencement at Cambridge

is always a busy season, and the " Commencement Sunday," a

day of much ceremony and magnificence ; but the Commence
ment of 1810 deserves to be especially remembered. The
celebrated Dr. Buchanan was appointed University preacher,

   The day of the annual commemoration of benefactors to the University.
          CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.                       405

and  on   Sunday, July 1, delivered   from the   pulpit of St.  Mary's
his  two                                         Let there be   light."
           admirable discourses on   the text "
The University church is generally crowded on " Commence

ment Sunday:" the array of scarlet robes, and the general splen

dour of the scene, are, of course, attractive ; but larger audiences

than those this day addressed by Dr. Buchanan, in behalf of

the benighted natives of the East, were certainly never assem

bled within the walls of St. Mary's.

     Dr. Buchanan, in letters to different friends, thus writes

concerning these sermons :--
                                                         " June 23rd, 1810.

    " I am appointed by the University of Cambridge to preach

before them two sermons on Commencement Sunday, the 1st

of July next. I am rather weak in spirit at present, and not
strong in bodily health ; but I pray for strength, and I trust

the Lord will sustain me. My sermons will be published."

                                                 " London, July 11, 1810.

   I" I only staid at Cambridge two days after preached.
    " I addressed the students on the importance of the sacred

office, in conclusion ; and intimated that the time was now

come, when every man who stood on the side of religion must
be content to bear a name of reproach ; for it was a necessary
evidence of his character.

    " I preached for three-quarters of an hour in the morning,

and above an hour in the afternoon. There was the most
solemn stillness. The church was crowded.

    " On the Tuesday following, the Bishop of Bristol came up

to me in the Senate-House, and thanked me for the discourses,

and expressed a hope that they would be published. Others
did the same. Dean Milner, who is Vice-Chancellor, informed
me soon afterwards, that he felt himself authorized to grant the

imprimatur of the University for their publication, and I am

preparing them for the press accordingly."

     Dr. Buchanan might have added, that Dean Milner ex

pressed to him, in private, his entire approval and cordial
admiration of these sermons ; and declared that it gave him the
406  CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. *TAT. 60.

most heartfelt satisfaction to have it in his power, as Vice-
Chancellor, to order them to be printed at the University press.

    A very brief notice of the discourses thus distinguished by

the approbation of Dean Milner, cannot be judged improper.
The subject of these sermons was the diffusion, throughout the
world, of the divine light of Christianity.

    The sublime words, " Let there be light," were applied by
Dr. Buchanan to the course of the " Sun of righteousness ;" and

he directed the attention of his audience to three distinct (eras

of this heavenly illumination ; these eeras being, the first promul
gation of the Gospel, the Reformation, and the period then,
and still, actually present. After a very able historical view of
these periods of divine light, he set forth and strongly urged
the duty incumbent upon the Church of England to exert
herself in the great work of spreading throughout the world

the knowledge of the Christian religion. " It becomes her,"

he said, "standing, as she does, like a Pharos among the
nations, to be herself the grand instrument of giving light to the
world."

    A few brief sentences, showing the nature of the doctrine

inculcated in these sermons, ought to be here inserted ; for,
assuredly, Dean Milner would never have declared his approba
tion of discourses in which the fundamental and distinguishing
truths of Christianity were not, as he believed, rightly laid

down.

     " True religion," said the preacher on this occasion, " is
that which its great Author hath himself declared. It is a

practical knowledge of the love of God the Father, ' who sent
his Son into the world, not to condemn the world, but that the

world, through him, might be saved of the atonement of God
the Son, by faith in whom we receive remission of our sins, and

are justified in the Bight of the Father ; and of the sanctification
of God the Holy Ghost, by which we are made meet to become
partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light."

      Dr. Buchanan concluded his second sermon before the

University with the following testimony to that 'regeneration'
which constitutes in truth the essence of Christianity.

     " This change of heart ever carries with it its own witness,
             CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.  407

and it alone exhibits the same character among men of every          >/

clime. It bears the fruit of righteousness ; it affords the highest

enjoyment of life which was intended by God, or is attainable
by man; it inspires the soul with a sense of pardon and of
acceptance through the Redeemer ; it gives peace in death, and

a sure and certain hope of the resurrection unto eternal life."
     Such were the religious sentiments of which Dean Milner

expressed his entire and cordial approbation.
     The Commencement, with its various engagements, over,

Dr. Milner was again occupied in correspondence with Dr. Bell.
     Many points respecting the application of the large sum of

money about to be made over to the University still remained
undecided ; and on these points Dr. Bell desired to have the

Vice-Chancellor's final advice.
     At length, however, the preliminary arrangements were con

cluded, the deeds of transfer were actually sent to the Vice-

Chancellor, and nothing remained to be done except the affix
ing to them of the University seal ; for this Dr. Bell was now
exceedingly anxious. With generous warmth, he had said to
Dr. Milner, at an interview which took place between them in

London, that the idea of bequeathing the money in question
was to him a most melancholy one ; that, being an old man, he
earnestly desired, for the few years which he might have to live,
to have the comfort of seeing the parents and sons whom it was

intended to benefit enjoying his benefaction.

     Dr. Milner was much struck by this benevolent eagerness ;
" to leave money," he remarked, was " nothing uncommon, but
it was very uncommon to meet with a person so anxious to give
it." There was some little difficulty, as he wrote to Dr. Bell on
the 9th of July, " in getting together, in non-term time, the

twenty-five members of the Senate, requisite for the transacting
of public business ;" but this difficulty was overcome, and on
the 30th day of the same month he had the satisfaction of

writing as follows :--

" Dear Sir,  "To the Rev. Dr. Bell.

" It is with great pleasure that I inform you, that yesterday

the two deeds of your truly liberal and magnificent foundation
408          CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.

were sealed, in my presence, with the common seal of the

University.
     I"The colleges are at present so empty, that
                                                   was  not
Iwithout fears that should not be able to get together  the

number of members necessary for doing business at a convoca

tion. However, it turned out otherwise ; for the members of

the Senate having been previously made acquainted with the

importance of the business, came together quickly, both at the

first convocation in the morning, and at the second convocation

in the afternoon.

    " If you will please to give me leave, I will take the liberty

of sometimes paying my respects to you when I am called to
ILondon.
             sincerely wish to congratulate you in person, and

to express my earnest hopes, that your venerable old age may

be refreshed with the seeing or hearing of clerical parents and

their sons n.ade easy and happy by your noble benefaction.

   I" mean to transmit the deeds to-morrow to Mr. Arnold*;

and when the Public Orator returns from his summer excursion,

the Senate will direct him to make our grateful acknowledg

"ments to you in form.

                                   1 am, dear Sir,

            " Your obliged and faithful friend and servant,
                                         " Isaac Milner,
                                                         " Vice-Chancellor."

    An examination of candidates for scholarships upon this
foundation took place during this same year, Dr. Milner being
an examiner, both as Vice-Chancellor and as Lucasian Professor

of Mathematics. One of the scholars elected upon this occa

sion, the present Dean of Ely, has kindly communicated to me
various recollections of Dean Milner, and among them one

most characteristic anecdote relating to this examination for

Bell's Scholarships.

    " One of the candidates," he writes, " (a very good classical

scholar), was unable to answer any of the questions put to him,

and I was amused by Dr. Milner's sending him a small piece of

             * Dr. Bell's solicitor.
               CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. j£TAT. GO.             409

paper, and requesting him to write down upon it all the mathe

matics which he knew. He was very kind and considerate, but

I regarded him with too much reverence and fear, to be able to

note many particulars of what took place."

The above anecdote, and the testimony to Dean Milner's

kindness and consideration, may, perhaps, to some persons,

appear inconsistent with each other. The truth    it is,   that, with

Dr. Milner's humour, which he rarely could repress, there was

always mixed so much obvious good nature, that was impos

sible to feel harsh or unkind.
I

               it

                                   a
                                        a
remember being once much struck with the effect of this

mixture, on occasion of Dean Milner's saying one of the most

pungent things, of humorous nature, which ever heardI

him utter. A young gentleman of his own college, who had

obtained certainly not very high place among the Wranglers,

came to him, after the Senate-House examination, overflowing

with satisfaction and delight, to communicate what he con

sidered his great success, and to be congratulated upon it. The

youth was person for whom, as for his father and his whole
            a

family, the Dean entertained the highest regard but he would
                                                  ;
seldom repress a jest which rose to his lips, and thinking,
                                                               of I
                                                                                                   1
suppose, that the joy expressed was rather greater than the

circumstances warranted, looked very good-humouredly in his

visitor's face, shook him heartily by the hand, and said, " Very

well, very well it's capital we'll count from the other end
               ;
                                               !

the list."

    In the year 1810, the once famous gout medicine, called
" L'Eau Medicinale," was in the height of its reputation.

    In Dr. Milner's private journal, already mentioned, there are

the following entries: --"July 29th. The Bishop of Carlisle

writes to me about the gout medicine also about the Bartlett's
               ;

                   I
                                                        ;
                                                I
Buildings' Society the Bishop of Ely in the Chair."
    " August 2d. answered the Bp. of Carlisle.
    " Chemsts. can do nothing with vegetables -- am at work

by solution and taste.                     will attend to his wishes respecting

Bartlett's Buildings."

Amid the variety of affairs which engaged Dr. Milner's

attention, he never failed to take advantage of any opportunity
410 CHAP. XX. A.V. 1810. JETAT. 6O.

that presented itself of advancing the cause of religion. With

this view, he, during this month, successfully exerted his influ

ence with the Archbishop of York and the Bishop of Lincoln,

to procure for a Fellow, of his own College, whose principles he

knew and approved, an appointment as a Whitehall preacher.
No man, perhaps, could be more unwilling than he, on ordinary

occasions, to lay himself under obligations to influential

persons ; yet, by no one, were personal considerations more

entirely disregarded, when the interests of religion appeared

to be concerned.

      Dr. Milner availed himself, with peculiar pleasure, of the

opportunities which this vacation afforded him of enjoying the

society of his friend Mr. Kerrich, who, just about this time,

conceived the idea of executing the portrait of him which was

afterwards engraved by Facius. The following is one of many

notes, of a similarly unceremonious character, written during

the summer months of this year.

                                      " Queen's, Friday morn,

"Dear Sir,                            July 27th, 1810.
      " Why should you not dine with me ? for example to-day,

at three o'clock, in as plain a way as possible ?

    " Send me an answer.
    " If you particularly wish me to dine with you some other

day, I will do it.

" To the Rev. Mr. Kerrich."  "Yours,                                    I. M.

      Afterwards, while the portrait was in hand, these social

dinners were frequent. Mr. Kerrich worked upon his drawing,

(it   was executed in coloured chalk,) from about twelve o'clock,

     a
till quarter before two; maintaining all the time, an animated

conversation with his sitter. This, in common with most other

painters of portraits, he considered indispensable to the produc

tion of characteristic and spirited likeness he disliked, howa

ever, any great variety of topic and change of subject, " from
                             ;
                                         a

                                                                  ;

grave to gay," or vice-versd, always, he said, endangered the

success of the undertaking.                                          a  man who
    Another of his maxims, -- and the opinions of
CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. *TAT. 6O.                    411

succeeded so admirably in his favourite art, deserve to be

recorded, --another of Mr. Kerrich's maxims was, that a

painter of portraits ought, before putting pencil to paper, to fix

definitively in his own mind, upon the one particular style of

character, which he is to endeavour to catch and to represent,
and never to attempt to unite various, --still less, opposite, or

inconsistent expressions. These subjects were often discussed

between him and Dr. Milner, during the hours of sitting.

" If," Mr. Kerrich would say, " I am to paint you, as you look
at St. Mary's, I shall ruin the whole thing, if I endeavour, in

addition, to throw into your countenance something of the
expression which it wears when you are the life of the party at
a Vice-Chancellor's dinner." Mistakes, similar to this, he
maintained, were frequently committed by painters of the
highest reputation -- n« one expression or style of character was,
exclusively, aimed at ; and, therefore, none was caught ; and the
likeness, if there were any, was vague and unsatisfactory.

     The sitting over, the friends usually refreshed themselves by
a walk up and down the long gallery at Queen's Lodge-- a
favourite place of exercise with Dr. Milner--till it was time to
prepare for dinner. Afterwards they spent an hour or two

together, conversing, often on serious subjects, and before

six o'clock, Mr. Kerrich left the Dean to his evening occu

pations.                                          of the unassuming
     The following letter is strongly indicative

character of the writer.

"To the Vice-Chancellor of the University of

                              Cambridge.

" Dear Sir,                   " Twickenham, Middlesex, Saturday,
    " Your favour
                                                                     August 4, 1810.
                   of the 30th past, which came to my hands

yesterday, gave me a very unexpected pleasure, by informing

me that you had been enabled to get the deeds sealed ; and I am

extremely obliged to you for all your good offices, through the

whole of this business.  «

"You say, that when the public orator returns from his

summer excursion, the Senate will direct him to make their
412            CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.

grateful acknowledgments to me, in form. On this account, I

must again request your kind offices.

    " Believe me, dear Sir, I am not actuated by any silly affec

tation : but our feelings are personal : and it would be a real,

Iand very great satisfaction to me, to avoid a public address.
Ishrink from the thoughts of it : and, must, therefore, entreat

you, to present my respects to the Senate, in what you know to
be the proper manner, (when the time for it may come) and to
say, from me, that if they will have the goodness to permit you
to acquaint me, that, to gratify my personal feelings, they will,
in this instance, condescend to waive their general mode of

proceeding on such occasions, I shall esteem myself obliged to

them for the highest compliment they can possibly pay me.

    " If, at any time, when you are in London, you can make it

convenient to oblige me with your company in Dean's Yard,
you will add to the favours already conferred upon,

              '"' Dear Sir, your very much obliged,

                                  " And most obedient servant,

                                              "William Bell."

The death of a Prebendary of Carlisle, just at this time,

gave rise to much extra chapter business.

     The first part of a letter (dated August 17th) from the
Bishop of the diocese, whose son, the Rev. Robert Good-

enough succeeded to the vacant stall, has reference to this

occurrence and its consequences : the latter part relates, chiefly,

to a subject already mentioned as furnishing a topic of corre

spondence between the Bishop and the Dean, and therefore,if is,

here inserted.

    " Professor Davy," writes the Bishop, " told me that he

could never make out anything respecting the Eau Mtdicinale,
               was vegetable. Sir J. Banks, at first, was rather
save that  it

displeased with him, thinking that he could tell he would.
Mr. Hatchett, another great name in the chemical world,

corroborates Professor Davy's assertion. Another great lumi

nary, the Dean of Carlisle,  iIs,  find, equally puzzled. How,

then, can we, poor dull men, stipites, lignum, l$c. fyc, terra;

inutile pondus, dare to open our mouths    fear that have
                                           ?

                                             I

                                                          I
           CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60;                              413

already been too presumptuous in hazarding assertions, that

fox-glove  is the chief ingredient.       me      about  fox-glove, -- why is it
           idea has always struck
    " One

so common a plant? It is by no means troublesome as a weed;

like the thistles of Genesis, whatever they were, formed to

exercise labour and patience. May it not then be for the help

of man ? Should it prove a specific for gout, I do not know
that it is anywhere superabundant. Excuse my prattling. I

say everything to you with diffidence upon this head.
   " My
*          p"ooHr esownillis   kept at    home    by   the illness of   his wife."
   **                         feel great   pride   in    your obliging
                                                                          message

to him.                       " I am, my dear Dean,
                                       " Your most faithful servant,
                                                    " Saml. Carlisle.

   " I am studying Woodhouse on the Apocalypse. I have

gone half through, and have not yet found any wild reveries,

which makes me think favourably of him.

" To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle."

     The Dean's private journal, so often referred to, contains,
among a multitude of notices of chapter and other business, the
following memorandum, dated

    "August 21st. To Bp. of Carlisle." * * * * "to say
also, that Dr. Davy and myself are at work on the gout

medicine."

   Dr. Milner was habitually methodical in the arrangement of

all his concerns; and with respect to the answering of letters in

particular, he was, in general, most punctual. He had, however,

in his communications with Dr. Bell, neglected to take notice

of the letter, containing the request of that gentleman, that the

thanks of the University should not be transmitted to him by

the public orator. Being reminded by Dr. Bell of this omis

sion, and being really anxious to make reparation                       for his

unwonted neglect, he thus immediately replied: --
414 CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. .STAT. 60.

" Dear Sir,                                        " Queen's College Lodge,

                                                    5 th October, 1840.
" It hurts me not a little to find, that my inattention should

have been the cause of the least anxiety to your mind. The

truth is, that from the instant I became acquainted with your

wishes, and with the delicacy of feeling from which those wishes

proceeded, I dropped all thoughts on that head, and I took it for

granted, that you also would conclude yourself safe from all

attacks of our Public Orator. Depend upon it you shall not

Ibe annoyed by him, and I am very sorry that did not say so

explicitly before.

    " I write, by return of post, that I may make you, without

delay, the best reparation         in  my power.

                                         " I am, dear Sir,
               " Your faithful and obliged friend and servant,

                                                   " Isaac Milner.
" To the Rev. Dr. Bell."

    " 7th October*. --Wrote, at Mr. Wilberforce's request, a
long medical letter to John Bowdler, Jun, Esq. at Portsmouth,

on the point of sailing to Sicily and thence to Malta. If

saile"d,Mmr.y   letter to be  forwarded.  imminent  danger  of  consump
               B. supposed     to be in

tion."

     The following extract from a sort of common-place book,
kept by Dean Milner, has reference to the subject of the fore

goin"g   memorandum.          G.,  in  answer  to  my  queries  concerning

        Heard from Dr.

Dr. Stewart's new method of curing consumptions. The letter

itself I have sent to Malta to Mr. Bowdler, through Mr. Mel-

lish, with a request that Mr. B. should return it at some future

time.                                  Lives at Haddington near Edin

    " 1. Dr. S. is Reverend.

burgh. He has studied physic.
     " 2. Dr. G. has heard of many benefited. Knows three to a

certainty.

               * Extract from private Memoranda.
CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.                              415

     '' 1. Daughter of the Duke of Northumberland.

    " 2. A son of Lady Anne Hope.
     "3. Dr. Stewart's own wife, who is daughter of Lord Blan-
tyre, and married after her cure. All far gone in consumption.
     "The first two had been attended by two eminent doctors,

Gregory and Hamilton. So far Dr. G.
    " The rest is an extract from Dr. Stewart's own letter to Mr.

J. about his daughter Miss J.
   I" have been successful," he says, " but pretend not to have

any specific.

    I" look to regimen, rather than to medicine; and to many

things, rather than to one.

    " 3. Light, nourishing diet, milk, a little fresh meat, beef tea,

arrow root, jellies, broths.

    " 4. As much exercise as possible, without fatigue, in fresh

air.

    " 5. Washings --cold, tepid at first, extending them gradually

from hands and face, &c. over the whole body, but by degrees,

followed by strong rubbings.                                 by

    " 6. Blister, decoction of bark, and vitriol drops.
    " The reasons are, scrophula, and this is best resisted

bracing methods, particularly in this climate.

    " 7- A tablespoonful of good tincture of rhubarb occasionally

at night.

    " 8. Allow small beer, porter, water touched with wine (port).
    " 9. Overlook cough and lesser symptoms. Brace the habit.
    " Exercise on a spring deal board in the house.
    " 10. Tincture of gentian, two parts ; of steel, one part, in

spring water.               One pill, every other night, till nine
                           to this medicine. Guard it by lau
    "11. Hummer's pill.
or ten are taken, partial
danum."

     The above hints, concerning the treatment of consumption
cannot, although the substance of them may have been already
published, be deemed unimportant, or unfit for insertion in this

place.                     it,
     Term-time now approached, bringing with of course, an

increase both of University and College business. Busy, how
416       CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. f!0.

ever, as he might be, Dr. Milner, true to the tastes of his early

years, had generally some mechanical pursuit or invention on

hand.

     The lamp had long since been rendered as perfect as was

necessary, and continued to be sold in considerable numbers.

The hobby-horse of this season was a water-clock.

    The idea was, I believe, suggested by a passage in a letter

from Mr. Harrison*, a barrister, and a fellow of Queen's, with

whom Dean Milner had, at this time, much correspondence

respecting College, affairs. Mr. Harrison writes, that he had

met with a water-clock at some shop in the city, but that not

having finished the fixing of it up, he could, at that time, say

nothing of its going. The Dean's mind seized upon the idea

thus presented. He caused a water-clock to be constructed

upon a very simple principle, and after several experiments so

          it it,
                    it

                           a
                                                    a

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                  a
adjusted  that indicated the hours with sufficient accuracy.

This was, at first, rather inartificially done by means of weight

which, as descended, marked the time upon scale affixed to

the wall, but after little more thought, means were devised by

which the hour was shewn by pointer upon the face of the

clock, in the usual way. The most original part of the inven

tion remains, however, to be told. It struck the Dean, that by

making the face of the clock of horn, or of some other semi-

transparent substance, and by introducing behind                                                     light, by
     a
          a
              a
                                               ;

                                                              it
                                                                   it
                                                                            it

                                                                                                  a
means of a spirit-lamp or otherwise, this clepsydra might be

rendered most agreeable and useful implement in the chamber
of an invalid by night. In the day-time, the light would, of

course, be unnecessary but in the night would not only

cause the figures on the dial-plate to be visible, but would

diffuse mild and pleasant light throughout the apartment.

The idea was carried into execution,  answered perfectly,

and more agreeable night-lamp was certainly never invented.

     The Dean's correspondence, at this period, chiefly regarded
chapter business. There were livings to dispose of, for which

applications from friends, and friend's friends, poured in on all

sides.

          * Senior Wrangler in the year 1793.
                        CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.

     Some letters, however, he wrote, which cannot but be gene
rally interesting.

     The following tender and affecting letter to the Bishop of
Bristol, upon the death of his son, is of this number.

"My dear Lord,                                  " Queen's College Lodge,

                                                      November, 1810.

     "Misfortune and sorrow affect persons very differently.
The presence of an affectionate friend sometimes affords relief,

Ibut in my own case, when in deep affliction, had no desire to

see any creature whatever.
" Ever since I heard of the late heavy stroke on your Lord
Iship and your family,
                                            have been tempted to call at your
IILodge, but have been kept in doubt, and upon the whole,

have judged it safer to write this note, than to intrude myself at

a season when, possibly, it might not be quite proper to do so.

   " Not that I can have a syllable to say which will not at

once occur to your Lordship, who has formerly gone through a

severe discipline of Providence, and most certainly I shall not

pretend to intimate how very greatly the effects of your loss,

          I

                      it,
and the sense of will be mitigated, will wear off, as they say,

by time.  know from experience, that though the violence of

grief may subside after some time, yet that when the wound  is

deep,     never healed in that way. The world never more
       it
           is
                 is,
                              it

                                         a
looks like itself, or as did before.
" There
          however,                          lesson to be learned in the school of

affliction, and, perhaps, no where else so well; and the sooner

we learn that lesson, the better shall we bear these events so

trying to human nature.

    " am not going to preach, and your Lordship will imme
I
       I
diately comprehend my meaning.                  a

    " While thus condole with you as father, my heart could
actually bleed for the situation of your dear daughters. In the

numerous lights in which can view the loss which they have
                             I

sustained, constantly perceive to be absolutely incalculable.it

    "Yet, one single word. While some persons may, perhaps,

recommend to them, to plunge into the world, and so divert

their thoughts by variety of scenes, your Lordship will, trust,
          I                                        2

              it                                        I

                          a

                                                   E
418          CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. /ETAT. 60.

think it wiser, to introduce to them gradually, the lesson above

alluded to.

     "Assure yourself and them, my dear Lord, of my most

sincere and affectionate sympathy on this mournful occasion, as
also of ray earnest prayers, that a kind Providence may still
plentifully bestow upon yourself and your family its choicest

blessings.   " I am, my dear Lord,

                                                                   "Your faithful and affectionate servant,
                                                                                                               "Isaac Milner.
     " Don't trouble yourself to take any notice of this note."

     The Vice-Chancellor's year was now ended, and it would        I
have been agreeable to conclude the account of its various and
tumultuous affairs with the above truly friendly and Christian                     is,

letter. It is necessary, however, to add a few words concern                                                :

ing Dr. Milner's mode of conducting the Sunday dinner-parties                                        it
which the Vice-Chancellor or was, expected to give.

     The whole number of the resident members of the Senate

being entertained in turn, these parties are, in term time, neces
sarily large; and in compliance with the fashion of the time,
they were, by the generality of Vice-Chancellors, given after
the second service at St. Mary's. This practice Dr. Milner, for
many obvious reasons, disapproved. He gave his dinners,

therefore, invariably, between the morning and afternoon ser

vices.

     The dinner (at which, --according to his standing order, and
the only order he probably ever gave upon the subject, -- every

thing was always the best of its kind), was put clown at twenty
minutes past one o'clock precisely and was understood, that

at three, the whole party attended the Vice-Chancellor to St.

Mary's.
     At the large parties there was, of course, little time for any

thing besides "the business of the hour." The smaller and

less ceremonious entertainments, during the long vacation, when
three Esquire Bedells, Messrs. Beverley, (John Beverley of
famous memory), sola, and Gunning, and one or two old
acquaintances of the Vice-Chancellor, constituted the whole
            CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. CO.  419

party, were, so far as conversation was concerned, by far the
most agreeable, and doubtless live in the recollection of all who

ever assisted at them.

Mr. Gunning, well qualified, surely, to judge of Vice-

Chancellors' dinners, thus speaks, particularly with reference
to the smaller ones, of those given by Dr. Milner : " I well
Iremember," he says, " the dinners at which
                                             have been

present. The conviviality of the President, and his hearty

laugh, were quite delightful. My recollections of those pleasant
days are very vivid." Mr. Gunning adds : " The abilities of

the Dean Mere of the very highest order; his acquirements most

extraordinary ; and the versatility of his talents quite wonder

ful. It was an observation of Professor Carlyle that ' if the

Dean had undertaken to work a lace veil, he would have done

it better than any female brought up to the business.'"
     A few remarks concerning these dinner parties may be here

permitted.                                                        i

And, first, it should be observed, that in theory Dr. Milner

altogether approved of them. The original intention and

purpose of them he considered to be, that the Vice-Chancellor

should, on Sundays, exercise a liberal hospitality, and after

wards, accompanied by his guests, attend the afternoon service;

thus, probably, securing the attendance of some who might

otherwise have neglected the duty of public worship. In

practice, indeed, he felt, that it might be difficult, in modern

times, to realize this idea: the most effectual means, however,

for this end seemed to be, to give the entertainment, be the

persons invited who they might, between the Church services ;
to allot to it but one hour and a half; and to make it un

derstood that the guests were expected to accompany their
host to church ; and these means Dean Milner constantly

adopted.
     Still it may be thought, from the account above given, that

his hilarity, on these occasions, was excessive. Upon this
point-- without attempting to dispute the correctness of his

own assertion, made as early as the year I7^7, th.it he was

" subject to odd conceptions of persons and things ;" and that
he had "a tendency to the comic," which he daily became

                        2 k2
420  CHAP. XX. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.

" more and more convinced " that it was his " duty to check
and restrain,'' it may be sufficient to quote the very just

observations of one who cannot be suspected of the partiality
which may, perhaps, be imputed to the present biographer.

"His cheerfulness," writes the Bishop of Calcutta*, "was
always innocent and inoffensive --always under the control of

principle -- and when religion became the topic of conversation,

always subdued to the most sedate seriousness."

     Those persons who are interested in the account of this
important year in the life of Dr. Milner, will read with pleasure

a paper, entitled An Address to the Heads of Colleges and to the
other Members of the Senate, drawn up by himself towards the
close of his year of office, embodying his deliberate thoughts

concerning the principal events and circumstances which had
taken place during his Vice-Chancellorship, and explaining his

conduct in regard to them. Since, however, this valuable paper

may be naturally supposed to be especially interesting to aca

demical readers, so much of it as appeared fit for this work is
given in a separate chapter, and may be omitted, in the perusal
of this Memoir, without leaving any chasm in the history of
Dr. Milner's life.

     The Rev. Daniel Wilson. Vide Christian Observer for May, 1820.
                                                         421

                          CHAPTER XXI.

Observations by Dr. Milner upon the prinoipal Events and Circumstances of
       his Vice-Chancellorship 5 with an explanation of his Conduct in regard to
       them; embodied in an Address to the Heads of Colleges and to the
       other Members of the Senate. -- Honourable mention of Dr. Paley.

                                 A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.

In order to render intelligible the early part of the following

abridgment of the Address, already mentioned, it is necessary
to observe, that, some time after the sitting of the Vice -Chan
cellor's Court on the 14th day of February in the year 1810,
Dr. Brown, who, as it has been intimated, did not make his
appearance on that occasion, published a pamphlet, with the
design of vindicating the line of conduct which he had adopted.
The first part of the following Address has reference to this
pamphlet ; and this part, with some other portions, though

Inever, believe, published, was printed, and circulated by Dr.
Milner among the members of the Senate. It is proper to add,

that to the observations therein contained, Dr. Brown attempted
no rejoinder.

      Some other very important matters, to which no allusion
has been made in the foregoing chapter, are touched upon by
Dr. Milner in this masterly Address, but in such a way as to
be perfectly intelligible without any previous explanatory
notice.

    It was a common practice with Dr. Milner to make, in

writing, full statements of his sentiments and opinions, with
regard to such affairs of importance as came under his manage
ment ; but, although some valuable documents of this nature
have been partially used in the course of this volume, feelings
of delicacy towards living persons, or other obvious reasons,

have prevented their insertion at length. In the present case,

although, from similar motives, some passages will be sup
pressed, a general outline of the whole Address may properly be
given.
422 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 6O.

"An Address to the Heads of Colleges, and to
         the other members of the senate.

    " From about the time of the last Commencement, I have
foreseen, that it would probably become expedient, if not abso

lutely necessary, that the Vice-Chancellor should make public

some observations upon several events and circumstances which

have   taken place in the course  of the  present year.    not  make
                                  Brown    certainly does
    "  A late pamphlet of Dr.

Ithis step less necessary, or less expedient ; at the same time

can truly affirm, that neither this writer's matter, nor his

Imanner, (so far as am concerned) could have induced me, in

the absence of other weighty considerations, to write a single

syllable on these subjects.                                     and

    " The other considerations are these :--
    " 1. A very sincere respect for the heads of Colleges,

for all the members of the Senate ; and a consequent desire

to remove, from their minds, all misconception respecting the

events of the present year.

    " 2. An earnest wish not to divide, but to unite the judg

ment of all the members of the Senate.

    " 3. A conviction that actual information, conveyed in dis

passionate statements, is the most likely thing to produce peace

and union of sentiment.

    " It may seem sufficiently extraordinary, that the two years,

1793 and 1810, at the distance of seventeen years from each
other, should be marked in the academical annals, as having

given rise to affairs peculiarly troublesome and unpleasant; and
that for the direction and management of those affairs, there
should, unfortunately, have been the same Vice-Chancellor, -- a
person of very indifferent health, of studious and retired habits,
and little accustomed to public business. The candour of the
Senate will, however, keep them in mind, that a Vice-Chancellor
is not accountable for all such affairs as come under his notice,

but solely for his conduct in the management of them.

   "I Ithus briefly allude to the affairs of 1793, because if

have in any degree succeeded in the direction of the unpleasant
concerns of the present year, 1 810, it in part, owing to what
                                          is,

                                                                     I
     CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. .BTAT. 6J.                          423

had learnt, by considerable pains and attention, in my preceding

Vice-Chancellorship, respecting the nature of the Vice-Chancel

lor's authority as founded upon statutes, charters, acts of par

liament, and usage. Moreover, it is not improbable, that the

unanimous decision of the Court of Delegates at Cambridge,

confirmed afterwards by the unanimous assent of all the Judges

of the Court of King's Bench, in favour of the Vice-Chancel

lor's proceedings in 1793, may have inspired me with some

confidence in the principles upon which I had acted, and the

judgment which I had formed of the jurisdiction of the Vice-

Chancellor's Court.
     " In regard to the election of the Vice-Chancellor on the

4th of November, 1809, I have to observe, that it is in the
Imemory of many persons, how active was, in 1 793, to prevent
my own election at that time. It is also notorious, how that
Ifor more than twenty years have lived almost entirely in my

own chamber, scarcely keeping together the shattered remains

of my health by the constant use of a strict regimen, and the
most powerful medicines. If, with these facts in view, any indi

vidual can believe it possible, that it should have been my wish to

Ibe elected Vice-Chancellor again before my time, should con

clude, that no evidence whatever could convince such a person.

    " Dr. Brown appears to have contemplated the decision of

the 4th of November last, with feelings very different from

mine. He considers that decision as a triumph on his part;

he flatters himself, that honour, and candour, and friendship,

and affection, were the motives which influenced those who

voted for him ; and he promises, that his gratitude towards

them shall terminate only with his life ; whereas my election

he would represent as originating in a cabal, organised by men

of great power and influence in Trinity College and St. John's,

and   strengthened afterwards  by art and calumny.
                               disposed to own myself
     " Now, although I am not                          behind  any

one in gratitude for kindness received, and although sentiments

of unfeigned respect for my electors have been all along the

predominating feeling of my mind, yet I do not hesitate to
Ico.nfess, that consider personal or private gratitude as here

entirely out of the question. No particular favour was intended
424 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. jKTAT. 60.

to be shown towards me. If Dr. B. was to be rejected, the
Ielection, of course, must fall on me.
                                               may highly honour the

motives of those who composed the majority on that occasion ;

but, at the same time, I pretend not to call in question (in the
smallest degree) the purity of the motives of the minority. A

difference of information at the moment, an entire want of

information, a different turn of thinking in general ; in short, a

variety of circumstances might easily induce some to leave, and

others to adhere to, the usual course of election, without sup

posing malice, enmity, or any bad passion whatever, to influence

the mind   of any one individual.              appeared  on  both  sides,
           very respectable names which
    " The

confirm and justify the position which I maintain. Read over

the names of the electors, and you will be convinced that never

was anyelection more perfectly free from all party or political
Iconsiderations.
                        deprecate, therefore, that spirit which would

commend or flatter one part of the Senate at the expense of

the other. Such a spirit tends to irritate and disunite, and

to hinder all dispassionate reflection.

    " In regard to myself, my premature election
                                               I
                                                               is,
                                                                  it
                                                                                 a
                                                                in one

point of view, an advantage but in another, consider as
                           ;
misfortune.
                                  a
    " It an advantage to have nearly got through this year ofa
         is
              it

                 I
labour before my bodily infirmities become greater than they

are at present.         reflect upon this with considerable satisfac

tion. But is, in my mind, real misfortune to have been

brought, (however innocently, and however undesignedly,) by
any circumstances, directly or indirectly, into such sort of
                                                             a

opposition with brother-head of college, as almost unavoid
                     a

ably interrupts, not only the satisfaction of social intercourse,

but may, perhaps, sometimes clog the facilities of transacting        it
necessary business. Whatever this may be with Dr. B.,                     is, is

with me by no means slight consideration. My comfort
                        a
                                a              been the cause of them.
                                               my election, when Mr.
                                  I
that"thSocaurgchely  offences come,' have not
         a            had week elapsed after

R., A.M.,      qf '     College, was served by Dr. B. with writ
                                                                   a

of Latitat, (as they call it,) in which the general statement was
merely plea of trespass however, the grounds of action were
                        :
CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.         425

sufficiently well known ; and Mr. R. signified to me, that he

intended to claim the privilege of defending himself in the

Vice-Chancellor's Court, and, at the same time, desired, that he

might be furnished, from the University, with the documents

necessary for establishing the claim of cognizance which his

counsel was about to make in the Court of King's Bench.

    " Notwithstanding what had passed during my Vice-Chan

cellorship in 1793, this matter of claiming cognizance was, to

me a new thing. However, as the cause of action had taken

place within the precincts of the University, and as both the

litigant parties were members of the Senate, I knew enough of

our statutes, charters, privileges, and customs, to rest assured,

that the jurisdiction belonged to the Vice-Chancellor's Court in
this instance, or that it belonged to it in none*." * * *

    " Be it however remembered, that the delay on my part
arose altogether from a delicate reluctance which I felt, lest, by

Iany uncandid construction of my conduct, should seem to act
in concert with the party whose cause I might shortly be bound

to hear and to decide upon, with the strictest impartiality.

    " It turned out, that the claim of the University could not

be properly supported, unless the Vice-Chancellor himself came
I Iforward in the business.
                    lost not a moment of time after

was made aware of this necessity and of my duty to appear, by
my attorney, in the Court of King's Bench. But the term was

literally within two or three hours of expiration ; and if it had
Iactually expired, I am not sure, that should have succeeded in
Imaking the claim.
                    believe not.
"A Rule was granted on November 28th, 1809, for the

plaintiff to show cause why the jurisdiction did not belong to

the University ; and on the 22nd of January I took care to be

present at a consultation for the University, at the Attorney-

IGeneral's chambers in London, where furnished such docu
Iments as judged necessary ; and, in return, received all the

    * Some of the succeeding parts of    as delivered by Dr. Milner in the
this Address, being, in substance, al    Vice-Chancellor's Court, are here sup
most identical with certain portions
of the speech given in the last chapter  pressed.
426  C1IA1'. XXX. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 80.

instruction from the counsel which they deemed useful for the

direction of my own conduct in future.
     "The case was solemnly argued on the 25th of the same

month, when Mr. Attorney-General, assisted by the University

counsel, replied with great zeal and ability to all the ingenious

subtleties which had been adduced by the plaintiffs counsel;

and the Court pronounced unanimously for the jurisdiction of

the University. IOur counsel informed me, that now ought

not to delay the holding of a court, for that otherwise, Dr. B.

might return with his original complaint to the Court of King's

Bench.

    " To those who value the privileges of this University, the

advantages which have accrued to us from this decision, will

appear very considerable.

    "To prove this, it will not be necessary for me to give, in

detail, the history of various disputes which the University has

had, at different times, concerning this very matter of jurisdic

tion, nor to exhibit the very great expenses incurred, not long
ago, by disputes of this kind; while, at the same time, we could

never be said to have arrived at any clear and practical con

clusion respecting our rights of cognizance in various cases, or

the proper manner of making our claims when these rights

happen to be disputed.

    " It will, I trust, be sufficient to inform the Senate, that, in

consequence of this decision, not only the nature of the juris
diction of the University, but also the due method of enforcing

       now perfectly ascertained.

     " Before the late decision, the jurisdiction of the Vice-
it it,
     is

                                                             ;

                                  I
Chancellor's Court was supposed by some almost to totter, as

were, on its last legs but am now warranted in affirming,

that our academical privileges, in this respect, cannot in future

be much disturbed. It was my duty to avail myself of the

opportunity that offered; and have taken care to have           it
     is
                a

                         I
recorded at length, by legal advice, and in technical language,

in what manner  claim of cognizance, on the part of the

University, always to be made and rendered effective, in the

shortest time and with the least expense, and without being

exposed to cavil and objection. Before the determination of
ClIAP. XXI. A.D. 1S10. /ETAT. 6O.                        "127

this case it was scarcely possible, for want of precedents, for

any prudence completely to avoid objections; but the late

precedent sets the matter at rest for ever. So much collateral

good has arisen from this troublesome affair.            of

    I" am not disposed to notice the misrepresentations

Dr. B., except where the correction of them falls in with the

main ohject of this address, which is, to communicate informa

tion to the Senate.

    " Dr. B. has been pleased to represent me as having been

improperly active in making the claim of cognizance.

   I" would, therefore, put the question to every candid and

competent judge, whether, from this accurate narrative, he

thinks, that in my situation, I could possibly have done less,

consistently with my duty to the University and my office of

Vice-Chancellor.

   " I should think, that Dr. B., if he come to reflect coolly,

must see that he went a great deal too far, when he affirmed,
that I 'showed uncommon zeal and activity in getting the

cause out of Lord Ellenborough's hands.'

    " For my part, on a review of the past, I am, as I have
already intimated, perfectly convinced, that I ought to have
Idone more.
             am convinced, that whenever a just claim is

made for the exercise of his jurisdiction, it is the Vice-Chan

cellor's duty to support the claimant, whether plaintiff or

defendant, without hesitation or delay.                  this
                                                         any
   "I am so anxious to be thoroughly understood on

Ipoint, that must hazard the charge of some repetition.
    " Though I am by no means prepared to condemn

Vice-Chancellor who should seriously think it his duty to be

active in his endeavours to increase the business of the Vice-

Chancellor's Court, yet the present question does not at all

turn upon the soundness or unsoundness of a Vice-Chancellor's

discretion in so doing. The present question is simply, whether

a proper and decent application can be refused ? Such an

application was that of Mr. R., and I contend, that it could not,

with any sort of justice, be rejected. If the Heads and the

Senate will not support me in repelling the unjust aspersions

cast upon me, in consequence of my having granted the claim
428 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.

Iupon such an unequivocal application, shall indeed have reason

to lament that I was ever placed by them in the chair of

Vice-Chancellor; and that they did not, (last November,)
prefer the man who has views so very different from mine,

of the privileges of the University and the duties of a Vice-

IChancellor : and lastly, must endeavour to defend myself as
well as I can.

    " Be it remembered then, that a rule to show cause why the

claim of cognizance should not be allowed, was obtained by

IMr. Dampier, the defendant's counsel ; and, so far, may well

defy the keenest eye of calumny to find a chink of opening for

its gratification.

   " In what followed I was directed, in every step, by the

joint advice of the first counsel in his Majesty's dominions.
" And here I hope I may be excused,
                                     for the use of those
                                     if,
                                                              a
who value the privileges of the University, and have regard
for the oaths they have taken for the preservation of those

privileges,  should interpose  a  suggestion which naturally
I
      I
arises out of this narrative.                                    abso

    " do not mean to insinuate, that every academic
                                     a
                                                     ;

                                                 I is is
lutely bound, by the oaths which he has taken, and by the

relation in which he stands to the University, to bring into the

Vice-Chancellor's Court every legal question which               cog

nizable there, or in which he happens to be party but do

submit to the Senate, whether, after the claim to have the
   it

matter decided there, has been openly made by one of the two

parties litigant, all subsequent attempts to evade, obstruct, or

oppose, the University's jurisdiction so claimed, be not incon

sistent with the oaths which we have taken to defend the

privileges of the University

    " One of our present Heads, within the memory of several,

did not think himself at liberty to sue for debt mil of the
Vice-Chancellor's Court; grounding his objection specifically
             ?

                      I
                                             a
                                                                   ;

                                                            if
on the oaths which he had taken.  told him at that time,

that did not see reason for thus construing our oaths for
I

two academical litigant parties, either directly or tacitly, agree
to have their cause-- though actually cognizable in the Vice-

Chancellor's Court --tried before some other tribunal, do not
                                      I
           CHAP. XXI. A.n. 1810. /ETAT. 60.             429

see, that in so doing, they at all impugn the privileges of the

University ; in fact, they only do not use their privileges ; they
mutually agree to waive them : but if one party claim the privi

lege, then read your oaths carefully, read your charters and laws,

and consider whether the case be not materially altered.

    " On the ground of this distinction, it is my unfeigned and

firm opinion, that any litigant party ought, the moment he

knows of the claim of the University being made in the Court

of King's Bench, to quash all opposition to it.

    "This reasoning will undoubtedly have the most weight

with those who are best acquainted with the history of the

constitution of this University.

    " They know, that there exists a Vice-Chancellor's Court,

though not lately, or very often resorted to. They know, that

it is a privilege of great importance, granted by the Crown, and

sanctioned by Parliament, with the intention of promoting

literature by preventing long and expensive litigations. They

know that the peculiar reason given by Queen Elizabeth in her

famous Charter that the studies of the University might not
;

                is,
be disturbed or impeded by the ordinary proceedings of Law

Courts that the jurisdiction of this court has frequently been

exercised to great advantage, when no other court in these
dominions could have answered the purpose. And lastly, they

know, that we are repeatedly sworn to support and preserve our

rights and privileges.

    " It very material to remember, that the powers of the
is
Vice-Chancellor's Court, which are exercised in protecting the
      a
discipline of the University, rest precisely on the same autho
       is
rity as those powers which that court possesses in civil causes.

It very gross and dangerous mistake to suppose the

contrary -- gross, because the supposition implies great ignorance
of the constitution of the University --dangerous, because
                                                     I
may soon lead to the entire loss of our privileges.     hear
                                                        if

                                                              it
nobody, as yet, deny the propriety of using the authority of the

court of the Vice-Chancellor, in points of discipline. But we

carelessly neglect, or wilfully abandon, or by mismanagement
lose, our right of cognizance in either one species of causes or
the other, the inevitable consequence must be, that in very
                                                     a
430 CHAP. XXI. A.D. lnio. /ETAT. 6O.

short time it will be in vain to urge a distinction upon which

our right of trying causes at all, does in no wise depend. If we

have not the cognizance of both species of these causes, we

have that of neither*.

   I" know not whether there exist any person uncandid

enough to suppose, that if Dr. B.'s complaint against Mr. R.

had actually come before me I should not, even for the sake of

my own reputation, have exerted every nerve of attention, and

availed myself of every proper source of advice, for the purpose
of impartial decision between the parties. If such a person
Iexist, most certainly
                        envy him not his suspicious temper.

He knows nothing of me ; and very little of human nature.

Alas ! is a conscientious man, because he happens to be placed

in the office of Vice-Chancellor, to allow himself to be no

longer directed in his conduct by those ordinary principles of

morality which govern the minds of all men of honour and

integrity ? Surely the reverse is likely to be the truth. A

man who has any pretensions to character -- and most men's

characters are settled long before they are likely to be placed in
such an office as that of Vice-Chancellor of a University --will,
by his new situation, be disposed to be, if possible, more strict

and more nice in the display of every laudable endowment.

    " In regard to bad or indifferent characters, I own I am far

from being so sure, that they are likely to be mended by being

placed in more honourable situations, as I am, that they will

be more narrowly watched and scrutinized on that very account.

The faults of a deformed or defective statue which happens to

have been absurdly raised on a lofty pedestal, are not hidden

by the elevation, but arc thereby more exposed, and more

likely to become the subjects of closer criticism, and more

severe animadversion.

    * Much which has chiefly reference  treats, with interest ; but because it is
to Dr. Brown personally, and to his
                                        better, that what is merely personal in
deportment on this occasion, is here
omitted -- not because it would he un   an affair otherwise so important, should

interesting ; for the vigorous concep   now be forgotten. It is proper, how
tions and racy observations of Pr.
                                        ever,  oftoDgr.iveMiltnheer'sconvcelruysioanbleo"f  this
Milner invest any subject of which he   port
                                                                                            Ad

                                        dress."
                    CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.                  431

   " To conclude : I am utterly at a loss to comprehend upon

what principles Dr. B. can undertake to defend his conduct.
    " 1. Mr. R., in common with every other member of the

Senate, has the privilege of the Vice-Chancellor's Court. He

claimed that privilege, and from that moment his privilege
became a right. Dr. B. resisted that right to the very last ;
yet is he sworn to support the rights and privileges of the

University.

    " 2. Dr. B. has most grossly misrepresented the conduct of

the Vice-Chancellor.

    " 3. Dr. B. has not only endeavoured to deprive a M.A.

of his just rights, but has used extremely unbecoming language
respecting the judges of the Vice-Chancellor's Court, who are
usually Heads'of Colleges. He represents these as incompetent
and unfit to discharge the functions of judges, partly from

ignorance of the laws, and partly because they are so liable

to be warped by prejudice and partiality. Now the fact I

believe to be, that they know their own academical laws far
better than any lawyers of this country whatever : but if they
did not, surely the avowal and publication of such a sentiment,

is in the highest degree indecent. It is vain to say, that Dr. B.

restrains himself to civil causes, and does not mean to include

causes of discipline, because the jurisdiction of the University,

in both species of causes, rests precisely upon the same found

ation ; and if we lose our power in the one species, we shall

soon find it impossible to protect it in the other : there will

spee"diIlny  be an  end of our authority in  causes   of discipline.  speak
              what                           firmly,
                     I now say, I speak               because I

advisedly ; but even supposing, that this were not the case, will

the younger members of our University, those who are the

most likely to be concerned in causes of discipline, will they

readily enter into a distinction of this sort ? Will they be

disposed to admit, that judges who are allowed to be ignorant,
incompetent, unfit, warped by prejudice and partiality, when
ever causes of a certain kind are brought before them, will
nevertheless, in matters of discipline, cxhihit all that wisdom in
inquiry, and all that justice and discrimination in pronouncing
sentence, which their cases imperiously require?
4.32 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.                        of
                                                             in
   " I can devise nothing so likely as this representation

Dr. B. to disparage the character of the Heads of Colleges,
the minds of the students of this University/'

" Fcrther Observations on the Jurisdiction of the
    University, and particularly on the Court of

     Delegates in Cases of Appeal.
     " The right of appeal, an important part of our academical

jurisdiction, is attended with some difficulties.

    "When I was last Vice-Chancellor, in the year 1793, I left

 on record in the hands of the Registrary, a paper on this sub

ject; and I was not without hope, that some person better

 informed than myself, would have taken the matter into con
sideration, and pursued the hints suggested by me at that time.

     "The desuetude into which both the Vice-Chancellor's

Court, and the Court of Delegates, have fallen, is, I am con

vinced, much owing to the uncertainty of the rules, by which
those courts are to be governed.

    I" In the present state of things, am afraid it would not

be of much service to enter into a detail either of the practical
difficulties which have occurred to me in studying this subject,

or of the methods which I might think proper to propose for
the removal of them. But this I will venture to affirm, that if
any person thinks, that I am desirous of increasing the Vice-

Chancellor's power, in his court, he is completely mistaken.

   I"There are many cases in which, think the Vice-Chan

cellor's power in his court, is quite enough ; perhaps, in some
instances, too much ; but it would be a very great improvement
in our academical jurisdiction, to have it settled distinctly in
what cases an appeal from the Vice-Chancellor's sentence does
lie, and in what cases it does not.

    "This very question of appeals was, many years ago,

brought, by reference, before a very great and splendid tri

Ibunal; but ended, so far as can find, in nothing useful or

practical*.

  I* " The tribunal to which allude, then Chancellor of the University, the

consisted of the Duke of Newcastle, Archbishop of Canterbury, the Lord
        CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.                                   433

    "In the case of Dr. Brown and Mr. R. however, there

could have been no question whatever, as to the matter of
appeal. In such a cause, an appeal undoubtedly lies from the

sentence of the Vice-Chancellor, to the Court of Delegates.
And further, although in many cases the Vice-Chancellor may

act Suo Jvdicio, in his sentence ; in others he cannot pronounce

sentence without the assent of  Heads           of Colleges.   Schools,    the
                                court          in the Public
    " Lastly, when holding his

Vice-Chan cellor acts always in the presence of every member of

the University who chooses to attend.

    " In the late very important trial, which terminated in the

Iexpulsion of four undergraduates, so desirous was of con

vincing every one of the justice and impartiality of our pro

Iceedings, that gave orders for the admission of all persons

who should wish to be present, though the trial was in Camerd,

Iand though, so far as know, this had rarely, if ever, been

allowed before, in the Lodge of any Head of a College*.

    " However, in all cases, without a single exception, the

Heads of Colleges are the Vice-Chancellor's Assessors, and

may hear everything that is said and done : unless, therefore,

the judge be obstinate and wrong-headed, in the highest degree,

he will seek their advice with earnestness, he will listen to it

with modesty and sincerity, and will pay the utmost regard to

it  in  the forming of   his decision.
        After sentence,   supposing
     "                                    the  case  to admit  of appeal,  the

Vice-Chancellor's sentence is liable to be reviewed in a Court

of Delegates, chosen in the fairest way by the University at

large f.
    " There are upon record, in the archives of the University,

many hundreds of trials which have been decided partly, in the

Vice-Chancellor's Court, partly, in that of the Commissary,
and partly, in the Courts of Appeal.

Chancellor, the Bishop of London,            * See Chapter XX.
Lord Chief Justice Lee, and Sir George      t Here, in the original M.S., various

.Lee. The Chancellor of the University    charters and statutes confirming the
                                          privileges of the University are enume
considered himself as a party con         rated and commented upon.
cerned, and declined to act; the rest ac
cepted the reference." -- Original Note.                                2F
434 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.

" Such are the incontestable privileges of this University.
"With all due deference to the opinions of Dr. Brown,

with the most profound respect for the Judges of our Courts of

Law, and with as high a sense as any reasonable man can have,

of the value of trial by jury, (considered as a general system, and

Ias a part of the admirable Constitution of these dominions,)

scruple not to declare, that in any case that occurs to me, where
Imy own immediate interests were concerned,
                                              would much

rather have those interests settled by sixteen or seventeen men

of education, learning, and respectability, who have been re

peatedly sworn to do their duty as Academics, and who

thoroughly comprehend, in its full extent, the nature of an oath,

and will not quibble away its meaning, especially if these men
have at hand the best counsel in the kingdom to assist them in

cases of any particular difficulty, than by most juries that ever

were, or will be impanelled."

"Miscellaneous Events of the Year."

Some observations of Dr. Milner on certain recent instances

of breach of the discipline of the University, are here omitted.

With respect to "The Licensing of Taverns and Inns," he

"makes the following remarks :--

       It is but too true, that some more effectual measures

ought to be devised to put a stop to the multiplied irregularities

which are constantly taking place here, at the taverns, inns,

and eating-houses. The mischiefs arising from the meetings

of undergraduates at such places, are innumerable; and the

prevention of them is no more than a duty which we owe to

their parents and guardians, as well as to the young students

themselves.

"The very commendable diligence of our late Proctors and

Pro-Proctors was productive of much good; but the radical
Iremedy of these evils, depends,
                                  conceive, upon our main

taining a more watchful eye over the keepers themselves of

these houses of resort; and upon our binding them, by an

apprehension of the certain infliction of penalties, to a stricter

observance of

   I" If some
             the rules of the University.     speedily  adopted,
             regulations of this sort be not
CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.                         435

am convinced, that the discipline of the University will quickly
degenerate into a condition from which it will not be easily
recovered ; and, as an inevitable consequence, the painful neces
sity of expelling scholars will increase upon us.

    " Stop the licences of all hardened and incurable offenders ;

and regulate with a steady rein the proceedings of those lesser
offenders from whom amendment may be expected, and you
strike at the root of the mischiefs of which we are now speaking.
This would be a real exercise of kindness and good-will, both

to the young scholars themselves, and to their relatives.

" Hints concerning several Regulations op
                           Importance.

    " Confident of my own industry and resolution, and im

Ipelled by a temper sufficiently sanguine, had flattered myself
Ithat, in the course of this last year, might have been able to

bring under better regulations several points in which the disci

pline and interests of the University are materially concerned.

    " Some of these points 1 have already discussed at large ;

e.g.--
   " 1st. The jurisdiction of the University, both in the Vice-

Chancellor's Court and the Court of Delegates.

    I" have also adverted to the failure of that great attempt

which was made in the year 1752, to remedy the difficulties

respecting questions of appeal. These and several other diffi

culties and ambiguities which have occurred at different times

in the exercise of our academical jurisdiction, we have
*                                                                                                                       am
     *

          I

                                                                           :

                                                  2f

                                                                                                                     2

                                                              iIt,
convinced, in our own power to remove, by making and

observing suitable regulations.

    " 2nd. have called the attention of the University to the
licensing of taverns and other public houses. A subject this of

great practical moment, and which calls both for discrimination

and firmness.

    " The other points which have occurred to me as requiring

our review and serious consideration, are briefly as follow."
          * [Here several matters of much practical importance

are briefly discussed.]

    Dr. Milner thus proceeds --
436    CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. ^.TAT. 6O.

    " In general, however, there is no doubt but that the exist

ing privileges and powers of the University are sufficient and
ample, and require nothing but impartiality and firmness,
tempered with moderation, in the use of them, to become
highly beneficial to this venerable seat of education and science.

    " In my judgment, nothing tends more to the destruction of

those privileges, than imprudent extremes in their application ;
e. g., violent and almost unwarrantable exercises of power, now
and then, with perhaps an habitual relaxation of discipline for a

long"  time together.  effective  powers  have been granted  to  us  by
       Salutary and

royal charters, and sanctioned by acts of parliament ; but it is

the prudent and uniform exercise of lawful authority which

alone can ensure obedience and tranquillity."

                     "The University Press.

     "The management of our University press is a concern
which, if I mistake not, admits of very easy and very beneficial

regu"laIttioniss.a subject to which, for some years past, I have given
Imuch more of my time than could conveniently spare ; and I

wish it were in my power to convince the University of the
importance of the advantages which they are every year fore
going. But this is a matter which requires to be treated at
considerable length. In this 'Address' to the Heads and Senate,

I only throw out a few hints. The detail would be greatly too

long. Our chief object should be,

    " 1st. To produce accurate and well-printed Bibles and

Pray"e2r-nbdo. oTkso ;print better editions of the Classics than are now

in circulation;

    " 3rd. To print, occasionally, various other works of learning;

and,

    " Lastly, To take care, that every thing which we print be

sold to the public on as reasonable terms as possible."
     Dr. Milner's further remarks upon the management of the

University press are here omitted.

    This part of his " Address" concludes as follows :--
             CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. /STAT. <H).                                     437

    " ' All this,' it will be said, ' tends to place the whole power

over the press in a few hands.' It may be so, and I am
perfectly aware how invidious such a proposal is. However, I

am the more confident in hazarding these sentiments, because
Imy own personal care is now out of the question.
                                                                                   can no

Ilonger give that attention to the press which have given for

many years. Not but that I think very sufficient checks may

easily be devised against this so much dreaded exorbitant

power; but in devising checks, be it never forgotten v/hat the

it isalternativeyou should carry your checks too far."

      I                                           "The Caput.

                  a is,                         part of our academical government which

                   if

                              is
                                      a
                                               a
" The Caput

not, think, thoroughly understood and, in my judgment,
calls for review and modification of its powers. Such
                                                   I                               a

review and modification might, think, take place with greatis
                                                                 is ;
adva"ntWagheoetvoetrhetaUkensiveparsinitsy.to acquaint himself with the history

of the University, will find, that there a material distinction

to be made between Graces or Petitions, and Statutes.

    " The former (as the term implies) comprehend all favours

that are granted thus Degree considered as compliment
             ;                                                         is,
                                                                             a
                           a

or favour granted upon certain terms, whereas Statutes are

matters of general legislation. In these last,-I affirm, that the

Caput has no concern whatever. The fact that, under the
words 'placet,' 'placeat,' conceditur,' &c, the power of the
                                                '

Caput, ever since the Statutes of Queen Elizabeth, has been

making encroachments.                                                             may not be
                                                                                 intended, be
     "There may possibly be some cases where
quite clear whether the object of the alteration
                                                                       a

                                                                                ;

                                                                              it
proper for Grace or for Statute, but not many and such cases

might be settled either by the Heads or by new authority con
stituted expressly for the purpose, or even by the Caput itself.

Such cases would, am convinced, occur so seldom, that no steps

towards arbitrary power could be made in that way. A Statute
a
           a                                       it is,
                                                          is
                        a

                I
or regulation for the whole University in its nature, so very

different from Grace or Petition, that                                 not very easy to
conceive dispute about it.
438 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. jETAT. 60.

    " Now, nothing can be clearer than that the Regents and

Non-Regents are the persons, and the only persons, who are to

decide upon the propriety of making a new statute, and nothing

can be more proper than the distinction here insisted upon. In

the matter of a Grace or Petition, one sees, that there may be

some sort of reason for rejecting it (though to do so is a strong

measure), if even a single person has been found to disapprove
of it; but in the case of a new Regulation or Statute, it is

surely too much to trust the adoption or rejection of so general
Ia concern to the option of any one person whatever.
                                                      speak

from a decided conviction of many years' standing, and by no

means from any late facts; for in regard to the acts of the

ICaput, am ready to own, that in looking back on the cases

where proposals have been stopped in that body, it has

generally happened, that the rejection has been perfectly agree

able to my own ideas of the merits ; and that, even in cases

when only one of the Caput has given his negative. In some

Ifew cases, have very much disapproved of the rejection. But

when we seriously think of modifying the powers of the Caput,

all particular instances are best kept out of sight, otherwise our

minds will be swayed by partial views of the subject under

consideration.

    " The great questions are, first--What are the real powers of

the Caput by Statute ? Then, whether those powers have not
encroached upon the general powers of Regents and Non-
Regents? And, lastly, whether it be not advisable to revert
to our original constitution? Unquestionably, the minds of

individuals will, if great care be not taken, be well or ill disposed

towards the Caput, in proportion as its decisions have accorded
with the sentiments of those individuals, and the effect of this

bias is not easily prevented. However, I distrust myself the
less, because, as aforesaid, I have for many years held the same
Idoctrine which now advance.

"The Vick-Chancellor's Labours and Expenses, and

                               his Recompense.

    " I suppose, that there is scarcely a dissenting voice to these

propositions: -- 1st, That the Vice-Chancellor's labours and
               CHAI\ XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.                    439

expenses are too great; 2nd, That his recompense is too
little.

     "Lately, when the fees of the University officers were

Iunder the consideration of a special syndicate, promised, that

I would endeavour to devise some expedients for remedying

these defects.

    " Not to lose myself in a useless imaginary range, I will, for

the present, content myself with pointing out two or three

alterations which seem perfectly safe and feasible.

    "1. To lessen the labours of the Vice-Chancellor in one
material instance, I would propose to make it optional whether

he choose to give his time to the troublesome business of the
Ifpress.
               he should decline that labour, let there be a deputy,

or a president of the press- syndicate, chosen by the syndicate

or  b"y   the  Senate, for this single  purpose.
         Such    a measure, besides     affording
                                                   more  leisure to the

Vice-Chancellor, will, of itself, be found to remedy, at least in
part, some of the present defects in the management of the

press-concerns.

    a 2. In all cases of classical examinations, where the foun

dation does not absolutely exclude the addition of another

examiner, let the Greek Professor be made assistant-examiner

to the Vice-Chancellor, and let his voice be of equal weight

with that of any other examiner.

    "3. In regard to the pecuniary recompense of the Vice-

IChancellor, never wish to see it so considerable as to be an

object of desire to any Head of a College; but certainly a Vice-

Chancellor ought not to give up all his time to the duties of

his office, and be also put to much (perhaps) inconvenient
I Iexpense.
               stood engaged to attend to this matter before

Iwent    out of office, and I have never forgotten my    promise.
    "
           would suggest the following arrangement.

    "That       the  Vice-Chancellor do  receive annually from the
chest £ *
               **    * * " [A blank in   the original MS.] "That

to replace this sum so annually issued, all the fees at present

received by the Vice-Chancellor do go to the chest.

    " And also an additional fee, on every admission to a degree,

together with the interest of that variable and uncertain sum
440 cn.\P. xxr. a.d. uno. jetat. 60.

of money, which is usually in the Vice-Chancellor's hands, at
some banker's.

                          " Conclusion.

" I consider myself as having now, as a public person,

nearly finished my academical career: and though it would have

been a triumphant gratification to my mind, to have been able,

before my retirement, to bring all, or most of the points above

mentioned to a satisfactory conclusion, I have still this pleasing

reflection to lessen the mortification of disappointment, that I

have been deficient neither in good intentions, nor in activity

and diligence, but have been unfortunate in respect of several

unfavourable conjunctures.

    " To effect improvement on a solid basis, it is not enough

to have waded, for the purpose of acquiring information, through
an immense number of volumes of our academical archives --

it is not enough to have studied closely, for the sake of ensuring

safety and consistency, our existing laws ; as statutes, charters,

and acts of parliament, bearing directly or collaterally upon
the constitution of the University --there must, beside all this,

be a happy concurrence of circumstances; otherwise no good
is to be expected. In a word, there are required peaceable

times -- a general good-humour and mutual confidence --and a

candour of disposition both to suggest and to receive propo

sitions of improvement.

    " Moreover, such things are not to be effected in haste;

they call for time, and digestion, and the united wisdom of
judicious persons. To mature such objects, various conferences

of the Heads of Colleges would have been necessary; some new

decrees and intepretations must have been made; and several

propositions must have been brought forward for the con

sideration of the Regents and Non-Regents; and lastly, in some

instances, time would probably have been required for the

abatement of inveterate prejudices.
I" In my own mind,
                        make an appropriate application of
IIevery word here use, to some beneficial regulation which,

trust, may  still take  place, in  no great length of time.     degree
             forbear    entering   into particulars; the small
   " But I
               CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 6O.            441

of leisure which the pressure of business leaves to a Vice-

Chancellor at this time of the year*, has been almost entirely-
occupied by the attention requisite for the writing of these

observations.

     "Very soon after my election to this office, Dr. B. told me

Ithat he supposed, that was to be, in future, the Permanent
Vice-Chancellor. It is not easy to comprehend the meaning of
Iso strange a speech ; but, as am given to understand, that
Imany persons of whose entire good will can have no doubt,
have expressed a wish that I might, once more, be placed in
Ithe Vice-Chancellor's chair, take this fair opportunity of

making known, most unequivocally, my very sincere desire to
decline the acceptance of such an offer, were it actually made

to me. Conscious of having discharged my duty with integrity

and with industry, I resign my office without the least osten
Itation, but with a good conscience; and now retire with

pleasure, to prosecute my former studies, and to discharge my

ordinary duties.                                 friends, and a
                                                  respect which
    " With unfeigned thanks to my numerous

most grateful remembrance of the extraordinary

has been constantly shown me from all quarters, and with

earnest prayers for the prosperity and credit of the University

I take my final leave of all public offices."

To the above " Address" there is appended a sort of post

script, of which, if it were either my sole, or my principal

object, to make an attractive book, or even to afford an

admirable specimen    schooonfrstDi,dret.roedMeixlnhtoeibrih'tsavCeamcoumdsaed"eosfq"udveeeearzlyiendgfretwoe itwdheiathathn"
assailant whom he

his " character," in
Iin the arms of Herculesf," should certainly not suppress one

word. A due regard, however, to the feelings of persons still

living, requires, that the greater part of it should be omitted.

     Still, certain names and circumstances being carefully with
held, a passage which makes honourable mention of a valued
personal friend of Dean Milner, may be properly inserted.

       * Tho latter part of the month of October,
t See Stricturet on the Publications of Dr. Marth, p. 47.
442 CHAP. XXI. A.D. 1810. JETAT. 60.

After animadverting in strong terms upon a recent case o£

notorious suppression of truth. Dr. Milner gives       the following
expression to his feelings :--                         to me, since

    " Frequently, very frequently, it has occurred

the agitation of this unfortunate business, how much the

upright mind of Dr. Paley would have been affected, could that

great man have foreseen, that in the very college where he

himself, in his lessons on morals, had so often impressed the

heart of ingenuous youth with an ardent love for perfect good

faith and sincerity, and with a supreme regard (in the matter of

an oath particularly) to the meaning, as well as to the mere

words, -- could he, I say, have foreseen, that in that very college,

and not long after the commanding accents of his eloquent

tongue had ceased to be heard, there would arise a member of

the same society, who would not only set the example of sup

pressing important truth, when called upon, by duty, and on

oath, to reveal  it,  but would also undertake publicly to defend

what he had done by miserable evasions and subterfuges *."

* " Dr. Paley's words are, The de                     Hoc autem celandi genus quale sit,
                              1                      et enjus nominis, quis non videt
                                       is
                                                     Certe non apcrti, non simplicis, non
                                                    1ingenui, non justi, non viri honi ver-
signed concealment of any truth, which               suti potius, obscuri, astuti, fallacis, ma-;
                                                     litiosi, callidi, veteratoris, vafri.' "--           ?
relates to the matter in agitation, as               Original Note.

much violation of the oath, as to
aa
testify positive falsehood.'
   " Hear the judgment of     sensible
                              a
                                                ;
heathen in the matter of concealments
443

CHAPTER XXII.

Extracts from Correspondence. --Application from a poor Workman of Leeds. --
Engraving of Portrait. --Heraldry. --Bell's Scholars. --Remarks on the
Bishop of Lincoln's Refutation of Calvinism. --Religious Course of Read
ing. -- Habit of lending Religious Books. -- nistory of Religion in Scot
land. --Catholic Question. --Love of Children. -- Camera Obscura. --Board
of Longitude. -- Election of University Chancellor. -- Of Representative in
Parliament. --Energy of Dr. Milner. --Confidential Correspondence. --An
cient Walls of the City of Carlisle. -- Memorial to the Lords of the Trea
sury. -- Letter to Mr. Perceval. --Extensive Correspondence. --Dr. Bell. --
Installation of the Duke of Gloucester. --Mr. Wilberforce. --Mr. Henry
Thornton. -- Conversation. -- Journey to Carlisle. -- New Edition of Milner's
Works. --Confidential Letter to a Relative on the loss of a younger Bro
ther. --Excellent Judgment in matters of Decoration. -- Rundell and
Bridge. --Sugar Castor. --Return to Cambridge. -- The Comet. --Dr. Brown
elected Vice-Chancellor. --Dr. Milner's rule of Conduct in delicate cir
cumstances. --Letter to Lady C        Q. --Books recommended. -- General

opinion respecting Boarding Schools.

                                 A.D. 1810. jETAT. 6O.

" Having," as he wrote to a friend, "just laid down, and with
the greatest pleasure, the fasces of office," Dr. Milner was "still

hampered by the numerous and troublesome fragmental jobs
which crowd upon a deceased, or rather an ex-Vice-Chancellor;"
and the month of December brought with it the customary-
journey to London to attend the Board of Longitude. He
went thither, as it appears from his diary, on the 5th, and
returned to College on the 15th, of that month. On his return
he found awaiting him an application which, even under a
greater pressure of business, his benevolence would not have

suffered him to neglect. It was a letter ill-spelled, but well
expressed, and obviously the production of a person of sense --

from a poor workman of Leeds, by trade a dyer. This poor
man requested Dean Milner to analyze certain recently disco
vered liquid compounds, used as mordants in the communi
cating of a yellow colour to cotton and woollen cloths. The

discovery had been made by the poor man's son-in-law, who
had died without divulging the secret, leaving a widow and a
444 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1810. JET AT. «0.

numerous family in great distress. To this application the
Dean immediately replied in the kindest manner: but his
benevolence did not evaporate in a kind letter. He commu
nicated upon the subject with Mr., afterwards Sir Humphrey,

Davy, and duly informed the poor dyer of the results obtained.

     Another matter which occupied, at this period, some of his
time, was, to himself, a source of some amusement. His

portrait, which had been executed by Mr. Kerrich, was, at the
desire of numerous friends, about to be engraved ; and it was

thought desirable that the Dean's arms, as well as an inscrip

tion of the usual nature, should appear at the foot of the print.
The Dean had never used arms before, and professed himself

totally ignorant  upon the subject;  declaring    to   his friend,  Mr.
                  he thought fit to
Kerrich, that if                     " fabricate  "   for him " a   coat

of arms that should have in it nothing ridiculous," he would

" run the hazard of being sued by the protectors of heraldry."
His attention, however, once drawn to any species of know

ledge, whether important or comparatively trifling, it was not in
Dr. Milner's nature to quit the subject till he had, at least,

made himself master of its main points. Accordingly, while

the necessary correspondence, relative to the armorial bearings
which of right belonged to him, was passing between Mr.

Kerrich and the "proper authorities," he applied himself to
the study of Heraldry, and this with an earnestness and
vigour incomprehensible by persons of a less ardent tempera

ment.

He collected books upon the subject, and by the help of his

friend, who was an adept in the science, acquired, without any
considerable sacrifice of time, not only the language and signs
of Blazonry, but much rare and curious knowledge connected

with it. " Whatever knowledge comes in your way is worth

the gathering," was a favourite maxim with Dean Milner ; and

he constantly acted in accordance with it.

     The first day of the year 1811, brought an interesting letter.
Dr. Bell, anxious, as was natural, to hear the particulars of the

first examination of scholars upon his noble foundation, and to

know the circumstances of the persons actually benefited by
his munificence, wrote to Dr. Milner to that effect. After
             CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT.6\.      445

receiving a full answer to his inquiries, he thus expresses his

thanks s--

I" am much indebted to you, dear Sir, for the particulars

of the election of the scholars lately chosen upon the founda
tion which I had the favour of your very useful assistance in
             IThese particulars show, what
completing.                                    had not the

smallest doubt of, that you and your brethren did all in your

power to fulfil the true design of the foundation ; and in the
             I entirely approve of your conduct."
instance of

      One subject there was of permanent interest, which occu
pied Dr. Milner's mind at this time. The Bishop of Lincoln

had published his Refutation of Calvinism, and the truly
venerable Thomas Scott was preparing his work in reply. The
topic under discussion was one upon which Dr. Milner's
thoughts had, for years, been exercised; and many of his
papers of this date, on theological subjects, have reference to it.

    For instance : " The Bishop's acknowledgment, that the

evangelical clergy mean well, is certainly candid: and, in

return, they certainly ought to make the same acknowledgment
to him. But then, he thinks, that their way of stating things is,
at best, very dangerous. This sort of argument, drawn from

danger, is always to be suspected ; people always conceive their

own side to be the most important and the safest. I think the

Bishop is not aware of the danger on his own side. The
danger is great on both sides; but experience shows, that, on his
side, it is infinitely more extensive.

    " Our doctrine is this : Justified by faith only; taking faith,

as the Bishop does, lively, not dead. Then, dismissing all

about predestination or decrees, I still say, that justification is

necessarily connected with salvation. Admit, even, if you

please, for the sake of argument, that you may lose your justi
fication by bad works, still it must be regained precisely as an
adult believer obtains it at first. His works don't help his

justification at all ; they only prove it to be sound; they are no
part of the cause of justification. Christ is the meritorious

object : the sinner, by faith, lays hold of this object, becomes
united to Christ, and, in consequence, justified.
A4G CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. /ETAT. 61.

     " Even supposing it possible, that he may lose this justifica

tion after having once attained
              is                 he must repeat the same
                        it,
process; and even at the last day, he will be accounted righ     a
teous, and will be saved in that same way. His works, which;
follow faith, and prove, as aforesaid, the soundness of his             ; it

justification, are, nevertheless, rewardable but they are not the

cause of his salvation in whole, or in part. Still they are abso
lutely necessary. Let the Homilies and the Epistles be read

with this view; and let any reasonable man form his judgment.

    "The Bishop's opinion exceedingly dangerous, because
puts the parts of the Gospel in wrong places. It leads man

to suppose, that his works are the cause of his justification

and, on the whole, this plan brings the Gospel to this, that

there  is     mitigated law; that Christ has done for us part,
           a                                                  a

and that, gratis, -- part of what would otherwise have been
              aa
                                                          ;:
required of us,-- and that the footing upon which we now stand

is,  that we do our part, then the part which Christ has done
       if

will be of service to us, but not else so that our salvation,

according to this notion, still depends upon ourselves, and on

what   is  called, our own co-operation in other words, that

we have, naturally, the power to do a part, and that in that

way, viz., by doing part, we become partakers of what Christ

has done.                                                        They

     " Now to all this our Articles are quite opposite.

declare, that our wicked nature deserves damnation and wrath     ;

that God both gives us at first the will we have towards any
good, and that He afterwards works with us when we have
that will.

    "The Bishop's notions are Pelagian, or semi-Pelagian at
best so, as Justin owns, are the notions since held by many of
     ;
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                        a is
the modern clergy.

    " Still we do not deny, but maintain, and so does Calvin,

that our faculties are rational, and must be used and that

the only co-operation that ought to be contended for.

    " Melancthon did not treat Calvin as moderns do: he owns

that, at bottom, they meant the same. He himself was
predestinarian, strong at first; afterwards he was frightened;

but still he owns in his letter, that they meant the same.
                 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.                                    447

" Let the Bishop lay his hand on his breast and say,
Iwhether he ever before saw the matter in this light.
                                                                                      believe
Inot. Now, once thought as he does, and opposed the evange
Ilical clergy: but have, on reflection, seen reason to alter my
Ijudgment.
                 am sure, that the good practice is among them.

Conversions are not to be heard of among others. The rulers

are doing infinite mischief; they are undermining the real
Church. To know what the real Church is, we must examine

our Articles, Homilies, &c.

    " So in the Revelation of St. John.
    "The Book of Life contains the names of all that are

justified. The other book records their works *.

    " If justification by works be explained as St. James explains

there can be no mischief; because he really shows that
it,
                                                                  a
James and Paul agree. The different way of representing                               a

amounts only to this,--the works of person justified by faith are                             it
such as prove, that he possesses the true principle --the principle

indissolubly connected with justification or salvation. Strictly,
the works do not justify him for so St. James himself speaks,
                 it
when he asserts, that the Scripture was fulfilled which says,
                        ;
Abraham believed, and was imputed to him for righteous
'
        ;'  is,
ness that his belief was imputed to him for righteousness,

because his works proved, that his faith was not dead faith.
                                                                                  'a
The Bishop makes very proper distinction between dead
                 a
                   a

                                         a
and living faith; but then he goes farther, and would persuade
a

us, that the works produced by living faith assist in justifica

tion.

    " He also says great deal to induce us to think, that St.
Paul has in his eye only works of the ceremonial law. A very

great and essential error this!

   " Strange oversight! Does not St. Paul say, If Abraham

      The passage of the Revelation here  If his name be not in the Book of Life,
referred to, one to which Dr. Milner

often alluded. " Yon see," he would

say, "a man's name must be written
in the Book of Life; otherwise no
inquiry into his works will be made.
*                                         he cast at once, and without further
                  is
                                                                               aqnestion, into the Lake of Fire;his
                                                                          is
                                                                                        if

                                          name be there, his works will receive
                                            gracious reward." -- Rev. xx., 12, 13,

                                          14, 15.
448 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.

was justified by works,' &c, &c? Here the works could be no
other than the works of the moral law.

               " General Observations.
" Nothing can be more unfair or uncandid, than to represent

the evangelical clergy as being all Calvinistic, or nearly all.
This is far from the fact, in the Church of England particularly.

     "Then, among the dissenters, the Wesleyans are all Ar-
minians --many of the other dissenters are Calvinists.

    "But supposing that they all were really Calvinists in

general, still it is very uncandid to make them accountable for

all the strong expressions of Calvin.                          I

    " There are, in Calvin, a number of expressions which
totally disapprove -- yet, in general, I may agree with him."

The following brief remarks, written during the same year,

but on quite a different occasion, have some slight reference to

the topics above discussed. They may, therefore, be properly

enough inserted here.

    " The Sixteenth Article affirms, that men may depart from

the grace of God, and may rise again through repentance.

From which words the       of , in the case of Mr.

W , would infer, that a man may possibly so depart from

the grace of God as not to rise again.

    "Against this sentiment I contend, that the contingency

mentioned in the Article, viz,, that we may fall and may rise

again, is intended to oppose that notion which maintains, that
if we fall we cannot rise again. ' We may fall, or depart from
grace,' says the Article, ' and may rise again.' Therefore they

are to blame who deny that a backslider from the grace of God

may rise again. In one word, the Article affirms, that we may
fall and may rise again --but whether we may fall so as never to

rise again, is not said."

The foregoing observations will be felt by the surviving

friends and intimates of Dean Milner, to be strikingly illustra

tive of the distinctive clearness with which he thought, and

communicated his thoughts.

    It appears, from Dr. Milner's private memoranda, that

his reading, at this period, was chiefly upon religious subjects.
CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 01.  449

With the best books of practical divinity he was thoroughly
conversant ; and it may be mentioned, that it was his custom to
seize opportunities of lending such books among his acquaint
ance, whenever he had reason to think, that they might be
acceptable or useful. Among the books which his Journal
shows to have been most frequently lent, are, " Luther on the
Galatians," "The Works of Jonathan Edwards," "Adams's,"

" Walker's," and " Witherspoon's Sermons ;" the " Private
Thoughts of Bishop Beveridge" and of " Pascal," were also
among his favourite books ; as was also " Owen's Mortification

of Sin in Believers" a treatise which he considered as the best
work of that able divine.

     He was likewise, at this time, specially engaged in collecting

such publications as threw light upon two particular subjects,

the History of Religion in Scotland, and the Catholic Question.
He entertained, at this period, a purpose of writing upon both
these subjects ; and, according to his invariable habit, he took
care to supply himself with the very best means in his power of

forming a correct judgment concerning them.
     One distinguishing trait in the character of Dr. Milner was,

his hearty love of children. Many persons seem to experience

a sort of selfish pleasure in the company of children --they find
them agreeable playthings, and cherish them accordingly. Dr.
Milner loved them with disinterested benevolence, and was

consequently ever ready to take any trouble in order to minister
to their gratification. He had, indeed, his reward; for his
 genuine affection won the heart of every child with whom he
 had any intercourse. Children are acute observers ; they dis
 cover, with astonishing promptitude, those who really love them;
 and they give their whole honest hearts in return.

      These remarks have been suggested by the sight of a note
 from Dean Milner to Mr. Kerrich, fixing the hour when the
 children of the latter gentleman were to come, according to
 their own expressed desire, to Queen's Lodge, to view the
 wonders of a small Camera Obscura which the Dean pos

 sessed. I well remember helping him to find and arrange
the different matters belonging to the instrument; and I

 have a still more vivid recollection of his cordial participa
                                                                               2o
450 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. MTAT. 61.

tion, when all was duly prepared, in the delight of the young

party.

    " On the 6th of March," writes Dr. Milner in his Journal,

I" went to London to the Board of Longitude. Saw the Duke

of Gloucester, Lord Hardwicke, and the Archbishop of York."

     After a visit of the usual length, about ten days, Dr. Milner,
as he writes in his Journal, "left, on the 16th", the house of his
friend at Kensington Gore, and " returned to Cambridge." Two
important elections were now about to take place -- the elec

tion of a Chancellor and of a Member of Parliament for the

University. The candidates for the Chancellorship were, His

Royal Highness William Frederick, Duke of Gloucester, and

the Duke of Rutland. The extent of Dr. Milner's influence, or

rather, perhaps, the value of his energy, in behalf of whatever
cause he thought it proper to espouse, was practically acknow

ledged, on this occasion, by the numerous pressing applications

which he received from the partisans of both candidates, to

exert it according to their wishes. Many reasons determined

him to give his support to the Duke of Gloucester. He could,

therefore, in this election, entirely sympathize with the feelings
and wishes of his friend, Mr. Wilberforce, who wrote, that, on

account of His Royal Highness's uncommon activity "in pro

moting institutions   of a benevolent kind,"    and  more especially
on account of his                               the  interests of the
                     " incessant attentions to

African institution, and to all which tended to the benefit of the

African race," he was "warmly interested" in his success.

The Duke of Gloucester was elected Chancellor of the

University on the 26th of March, and on the following day
Lord Palmerston was chosen as its representative in Par

liament.

The number of letters written by Dean Milner with refer

ence to these two elections, would astonish all, excepting the

few persons who had opportunities of witnessing the strenuous

efforts, which, from a principle of duty, he was accustomed to

make, whenever he conceived the occasion to require it.

Besides this University business, he had, at this time, upon

his hands, an unusual press both of chapter and of college

affairs, and was likewise suffering much anxiety of mind.
                  CHAP. XXIL A.D. 1811. ;etat. 81.

     The following letter treats of all these matters, as well as of
other subjects which now occupied his mind.

" My dear Friend,          " Queen's College Lodge,

"I Iclearly perceive that  March 30th, 1811.

                           am in a considerable scrape
Irespecting these MSS., but, like most culprits, have a great

deal to say in mitigation of my own misbehaviour.

    "With, (I trust,) the best intentions, I have long had it

upon my mind to examine what is called the Catholic Question

in its various bearings.

    " The right understanding of it is a matter of infinite conse

quence; and though the apparent immediate effects may be

suspended at present, there is still, I think, a very threatening

aspect from the same quarter. The question is long and

intricate, and requires the knowledge of much abstruse history,

which can only be come at by a patient and impartial mind.

    " For a long time I never lost sight of any opportunity

that offered, of collecting authentic documents and materials

relative to this business.

    " The late Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, Lord Hardwicke,
and some Irish bishops whom I knew, have been particularly

Iobliging to me, so that have now a bundle of indigested

information on the subject. Our late friend's (Dr. B.'s) papers,

contribute to this mass.

    " But many causes have concurred to prevent my selecting

and arranging the materials just described.

   " 1. Indifferent health is at the bottom of all. I cannot
Iwork above a certain quantity in the day. If I exceed, am

done up.

    "2. The Ecclesiastical History was my first object. The

other, though more important in some lights, did not seem

called for just yet.

   I"3. The History took more time than had expected.

    "4. At the moment when I supposed myself dropping into
Ia little leisure, and began to doubt whether should imme

diately pursue the History, or divert to the investigation of the

Catholic Question, I was most suddenly and most unexpectedly

                           2 r, a
452 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.

made Vice-Chancellor, and that, under the most distressing and

perplexed circumstances.

    " It became then quite impossible to do any one thing else

whatever but Vice-Chancellor's business.

    "5. Nay, there have been left from that office, so many

fragments that require adjustment and serious consideration,

that I have not yet quite done with it ; and all my accounts of

that year are to be made up and audited in the course of the

next month.

    " 6. A most disagreeable and very perplexing contest took

place between Lord Hardwicke and this college, respecting an
Iinclosure.
             had the direction of this most troublesome affair,
Iwbich occupied me five months at least; during which time

wrote many quires of paper, printed and circulated many

statements and defences of the conduct of the college, wrote to

different Members of Parliament some hundreds of letters,

went to London several times, met our opponents in both

Houses of Parliament, and gained at last a complete victory,
by ousting the bill and obliging the promoters of it to come to

terms. This business was only settled last week, and it was all

matter of duty.

   I" 7. In the course of last year, had, as Vice-Chancellor,

Cou"rtHs atvoehopladt,iecnocuenwseilthtomceo--nsIulwt ililn  London, &c.     &c.      go  on
                                                             stop -- though
                                                                             I could

for a long time, -- your kind and affectionate rib, will, I hope,

take my part.

   I" received the kindest letter imaginable, the other day,
Ifrom your nephew, for which feel very grateful.

   I* Alas ! while I write, am thinking of my poor niece, Mrs.

C. of Hull, who, it is thought, will not survive many weeks. So

I shall lose the nearest relative I have in the world-- I cannot

tell you how my poor heart is affected.
"
"  Remember me always       most affectionately              to Mrs.
                           the post,
   In great haste to save

                           "Yours, ever,                                     I. M."

     The inclosure spoken of in the foregoing letter, was the inclo
sure of a common in the parish of Eversden, in Cambridgeshire,
                 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.     453

--a rectory, in the gift of Queen's College. If in Dr. Milner's

account of his conduct of this affair, there appear a little
triumph, he will be pardoned by candid persons ; since it was

the observation of a gentleman well versed in parliamentary

tactics, that, in his opinion, another person did not exist, who

could have influenced so many members, of adverse political

sentiments, as were influenced by the representations of the

Dean, on this occasion.

    A matter which concerned him as Dean of Carlisle, likewise

engaged, at this time, a large share of his attention ; and with

regard to  it,   as well as to the inclosure above mentioned, he

exerted himself with his usual vigour and effect.if a

     This affair related to the taking down of the ancient walls of

the city of Carlisle. A grant of the stones composing these

walls had been made by the Government to the magistrates of

the county of Cumberland, with the view of lessening the

expense of erecting new Court Houses. On the first agitation

of this matter, the Dean had addressed to the magistrates a

memorial, stating, that the foundation of the Deanery, which

stands upon high and very steep terrace, within few feet of
                                                    a

                                                                                :
the city wall, would, probably, in no great length of time be

undermined,        the adjacent portion of the wall were removed

and having done this, he considered the affair as set at rest.

He now discovered, that either by accident or design, this

memorial had not been duly delivered by the person to whose

care had been intrusted; and the danger to the Deanery
it

being imminent, he presented, without delay,        a  most able

memorial to the Government, stating at length all the circum

stances of the case and representing, that the portion of the
                   ;
wall in question, could not, in equity, have been included in thea
grant to the magistrates, since "the Deanery and its appendages
                            if
would, doubtless, never have been erected where they nowit
stand, had not been for the fair and reasonable prospect of
their deriving permanent protection from the city wall, to which

they are, in fact, almost contiguous  and adding various other

forcible arguments. To person who was            interested in the
settlement of this affair, the Dean thus wrote:
                                                 " In this attempt

to protect my successors,       not myself,  I   am influenced by
454 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.

nothing but duty. My memorial is at this moment before the

Lords of the Treasury, and I expect to receive their answer
Ivery soon. Whatever that answer may be, have no fears but
that I shall be found to have acted as became me, in my

situation."
     With Lord Palmerston the Dean had much correspondence

on this subject ; to Mr. Perceval, he wrote as follows :

"Sir,             " Queen's Lodge. May 9, 1 8 1 1 .
" Nothing in the world could induce me to press Mr. Perceval

for an answer to the memorial and petition lately put into his
hands by Lord Palmerston, but the absolute necessity of the

case. By letters from Carlisle I find, that the part of the city
Iwall in question, which had supposed would never be touched,

will be pulled down immediately, if orders to the contrary be

Inot given : indeed have reason to believe, that they are actually

pulling it down.

   " I am sorry to say, that I believe there are persons in the

county, who, to save themselves a few shillings, would pull

"Idown the Cathedral itself, and all the buildings belonging to it.
            hope, Sir, that you will excuse my anxiety in this

business; which is certainly much greater for my successors

than for myself.  " I am, Sir,

                        " Your obedient servant,

" To the Right Hon. Spencer Perceval"  "Isaac Milner.

    It was necessary to take notice of this affair of the Carlisle

wall, both on its own account, and as affording an instance of
Dean Milner's energy, and his undeviating habit of discharging,
on all occasions, what appeared to him to be the duties of his

station. It may be sufficient to say further, that, in conse

quence of the Dean's exertions, the matter was at length

arranged with due attention to the security of the buildings
which would otherwise have been endangered.

     The quantity of Dr. Milner's correspondence would astonish

any one who should cast a glance over his private memoranda,
CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 6I.        455

at this period. It was his habit, at this time of his life, to note

down in his journal the letters which he received and those
which he wrote, with a very brief account of the contents of
each. Had he been a man of less energy, the letters and
papers which he wrote, on matters of mere business, as Dean of
Carlisle, President of Queen's College, Lucasian Professor, &c,
would have sufficed to occupy the greater portion of his time.
To his letters of this nature, must be added those on religious,
literary, or scientific subjects ; to say nothing of a class, upon
the whole, perhaps, the most numerous of all-- bis replies to
friends and strangers of all ranks, who consulted him on all

imaginable subjects.
     One person among the multitude of his correspondents,

claims especial mention -- the venerable Dr. Bell. This munifi
cent benefactor to the University, -- "being," as he wrote to
Dean Milner, " absolutely unknown to the other electors," and
being benevolently curious to know the names and circum
stances of the persons benefited by his noble donation, regularly,
after every election of scholars upon his foundation, applied to

the Dean for these and other particulars. It cannot be neces

sary to add, that his inquiries were always answered in the
fullest manner, and with the least possible delay.

     On the 6th of June, Dr. Milner attended the meeting of
the Board of Longitude ; staying, as usual, at the house of Mr.
Wilberforce, at Kensington Gore.

      He returned to Cambridge, on the fourteenth of the same
month; and the installation of the Duke of Gloucester, as

Chancellor of the University, being now at hand, it became

necessary that he should take the proper steps to procure from
the Crown, a dispensation for non-residence at the ensuing
chapter, at Carlisle. Such a dispensation he applied for, and
obtained; though, not with any anticipations of enjoyment,
from the approaching festival : witness the following extracts

from his letters -- the first of which, dated "June 20, 1811,"

is taken from a letter to Dr. Law*, who had lately visited him

at Cambridge.

* The present Bishop of Bath and Wells.
456 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.

" My dear Sir,
    " I have nothing particular to add, after our late conversation.

I could not, without a multitude of explanations, nor, perhaps,

without incurring some dissatisfaction, be absent from the

installation. However, they know little of me, who are not
convinced, that my heart is not in these things. * * My

Ipoor niece, Mrs. C. the nearest relative have in the world, is
exceedingly ill. My heart is heavy. I will thank you to settle

everything for me in the best way you can, as to chapter

business. Pray, inform Mr. H*. that, by royal dispensation, I

arn to be considered as resident.

    " I shall write a line both to our Bishop and to Mr. Good-
enough ; but I trust, that you will have the kind consideration

to explain to them my situation and circumstances more

particularly."

     On the same day, Dr. Milner thus wrote to the Bishop of
Carlisle :--

" M"yIdheaad rfuLlloyrdintBenisdheodpt,o have slipped away from the bustle

of the installation, and to have been present at the chapter at

Carlisle ; but considering my situation here, and the part which

I had taken in the election of our new Chancellor, as well as

some other important circumstances, I at last found, that it

would be almost impossible for me to be absent without giving

Igreat offence, especially as was told, that the Crown would

dispense with my presence at Carlisle, which his Majesty has

actually done.

    " There are few persons living whose hearts are less in the

turmoil and bustle of large, noisy, convivial meetings, than
mine is. When I think of what we have shortly to go through
Ihere,
        almost envy those who are present at the (com

paratively) very moderate proceedings of our chapter dinners.

    " As soon as ever our tumultuous work is well subsided, I
Ipurpose to turn my face towards Carlisle, unless, indeed,

        · The Chapter Clerk.
CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.  457

should be prevented by certain domestic circumstances which
hang heavy upon my mind."

     To Mr. R. Goodenough, lately become a prebendary of
Carlisle, the Dean wrote to the same effect.

     Mr. Wilberforce attended the installation, and took up his
abode at Queen's Lodge; but at such a time there was little
opportunity for conversation. He thus writes from Queen's :--

     " June 28th. We are in such a state of bustle here, that it

is a great effort to step aside for half an hour and write two or

Ithree letters, and cannot do it without being scolded by our

friend the Dean."

    Mr. and Mrs. Henry Thornton were, if I recollect rightly,

at Queen's Lodge on this occasion. Mr. Thornton went less
into public, especially in the evenings, than Mr. Wilberforce,
and of him, therefore, the Dean, who went out not at all,

except on the occasions when respect and attention to the

Chancellor demanded that he should do so, saw more, at this

time, than of his more intimate friend, Mr. Wilberforce. His
conversation with the latter gentleman, when they had oppor
tunity to converse, turned chiefly upon the claims urged by the
Roman Catholics, and the propriety of conceding or resisting
those claims. On this subject, Dr. Milner's opinions are well

known. It was one of the few topics concerning which his

sentiments were opposed to those of Mr. Wilberforce.
     The Duke of Gloucester left Cambridge on the 3rd of July,

and on the 12th of the same month, Dean Milner set forth on

his journey to Carlisle.
     During his retirement this summer at Carlisle, Dr. Milner

revised the Ecclesiastical History, together with his brother's
Sermons, Essays, &c. This work he undertook in consequence
of a communication from Messrs. Cadell and Davies, informing
him of their intention to bring out a new edition of Milner's

Works.

     The following extract from a letter written this summer by
the Dean to his own and his deceased brother's excellent friend,
Mr. Stillingfleet, of Hotham, will be read by many persons with

very great interest
458 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.

"My dear Friend,                                        " Deanery, August 29, 1811.
   I" never destroy, or even remove far out of my sight, any
Iletter of a real and sincere friend, till have answered
                                                        !          or, at

least, determined that does not require an answer.            it,
    " Your letters of June 3rd "and August 5th, 1811, are both
                  it

                         I
before me at this instant, and have read them over again with
  most vivid pleasure. No wonder, my dear friend, when theya

breathe such spirit of true regard and warm affection, and the
         a

whole dictated by the love of disciple of Jesus May his
                                                     a

good Spirit continue with you even unto the end.
     "From November, 1809, to the present month, has been

with me period of incessant bustle, confusion, and engage

ments, along with many afflictive trials and very disagreeable

circumstances. In the midst of all these, would hope, that

have not, for long together, entirely lost sight of the one thing
         is                                             I
             a
                                                            it
              II                                                 is

                                                  ;                          aI
needful; but am deeply convinced, that                  my particular

duty to avoid, as much as possible, the turmoil and hurry of

multitude of concerns. Others may have better ways of
managing than have but there are not many whose bodily

frame    sooner discomposed and rendered unfit for serious

thought, and particularly for religious contemplations.

    " During the period above mentioned, of almost two years,
                                                          I

                                                              I
have certainly been employed in many useful things, and can

look back with comfort upon the effects of my exertions."

     The letter which follows was addressed to          relative on the
loss of younger brother.
         a
                         ,
                              a
                                                                               ;

                                                                                     a

                                                                          it
                                                                                   it
                                                                                              is is

                                                                                                                    a
" Dear                                               " Carlisle, 3rd September, 1811.
   " It was very natural that you should feel on the late mourn
ful occasion like brother. It is, however, most assuredly

satisfaction to me, and doubtless to you also, that every thing

was done for him that could be done and as has pleased

God to remove him out of this troublesome world,                     our
                                                                   well,
business to be entirely resigned to the divine will. It

that he was not removed to any distant place, for the effect

could only have been to increase his sufferings and shorten his

days  !
           CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.  459

" Poor fellow ! if he had lived, he would, in all probability,

have been a poor helpless creature, labouring under great
weakness and inability, and incapable of exertion.

    " It is ray wish and prayer, that such awful scenes as these

may produce on your mind some abiding serious impressions
of the vanity of all earthly possessions. The misfortune is,

such scenes pass under our notice every day, and we pay no

sort of regard to them, except when the matter comes close to

any of us, as when a near relation is taken away --and even
then, the impression soon wears off, if it prove to be no more

than mere natural affection.

     "Take advantage, therefore, of such a season -- and let it

send you to prayer to God for light, instruction, and heavenly-

mindedness.

    "You have heard much of what is good, and you have
much to answer for, if you do not profit by it. May God give

you his grace, effectually to overcome the evils of fallen nature

and acquired habit !
     " Fly to the Saviour ! Turn your back upon the world--

and remember that Christ says, 'Without me, ye can do

nothing.'  . " Yours affectionately,

                                              I. M."

     About this period Dean Milner had occasion to maintain a
pretty frequent correspondence with Mr. Smirke, the architect.
Certain repairs were required in the interior of the Cathedral;
and important alterations were made in an adjacent ancient
building, called the Fratry. The Dean was certainly not

remarkable, in matters relating to architecture or decoration,
for the quality known by the name of taste ; but it is astonish
ing how effectually any deficiency of that nature was supplied
by his excellent sense. Instances of this compensating pro
perty occurred continually, in affairs great and small. How
ever trifling the matter in hand might be, he brought the same
straightforward, efficient good sense to bear upon it. He had
certainly but little eye for beauty of form, abstractedly con
sidered ; but he had what seemed to be an instinctive and most

acute perception of the fitness of things to the place and
460 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. jfcTAT. 61.

purpose for which they were intended. It is a fact, that if he

had occasion to order a piece of plate at Rundell and Bridge's,

half of the persons in the shop perhaps gathering round him,

attracted by the vivacity with which he gave his directions, and

entertained by the originality of his language and deportment,

the article made to his order was invariably such as to command

the admiration of all who saw it. He was himself not uncon

scious of the truth of what is here intimated. There was at

Queen's Lodge a certain sugar-castor, certainly of a very noble

design, to which he used, with some triumph, to appeal as a

proof of his taste in such matters. He used to relate, that,

having occasion for such an implement, he went, one day,

to Rundell's, and looked round the shop, with the view of

pointing out something similar to the article which he desired

to purchase.

    It so happened, that the shop was full of "grandees,"

whose attention, like that    of all  other   peprrsoocnesediongf s.wha"tevAerr
rank, was speedily attracted  by the  Dean's
ticle" after " article," of splendid pattern and exquisite work

manship, was submitted to him by the obsequious attendants ;

but nothing realized the idea which he had conceived. At

length, in  d"esGpiavier  of making himself intelligible by words, he
exclaimed,                 me a piece of chalk :" the chalk was pre

sented to him by the astonished shopman, and he drew upon
the counter a representation of his "notion of a handsome
solid sugar-castor, that would hold something-" and "there," he

would conclude, pointing to the splendid piece of plate upon

his table, " you see the result."

By the third week in October Dean Milner was again

settled in his Lodge, and engaged, for the most part, in college

f.ffairs.

He found time, however, for a scientific correspondence

with Mr. Pond, at that time Astronomer-Royal, concerning the

brilliant comet which appeared in 1811 ; and although nothing

could be much more foreign to his habits, than to walk out,

during the chill evenings of autumn, yet this he did several
times, either alone, or with Dr. Jowett, Mr. Wollaston, or some

other friend, for the purpose of obtaining a better view than
                   CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 6I.        461

could be had from the windows of his study, of the comet

which he wished to observe.

The month of November brought with       a it,  of course, the

election of new Vice-Chancellor, and, in consequence of the
       it
strenuous efforts of his friends, Dr. Brown was chosen. Byis

this election Dean Milner, who, as head of college, and ina

various other capacities, had occasion frequently to commu

nicate, personally or otherwise, with the existing Vice-Chan

cellor, was involved in difficult and delicate circumstances, upon

which            unnecessary here to expatiate. He was, however,

precisely the man to steer safely and skilfully through such

difficulties and delicacies; for though  person of exquisite
                                         a
                                                                                        a
sensibility, he never acted from impulse, but always from

well-considered sense of duty.

There were among his friends, or at least, among his inti

mate acquaintance, some, who, as he thought, from mixed

motives, urged him to meet Dr. Brown at the ordinary dinner

parties, and on other occasions of mere ceremony. This, in
                                                      is,
letter which,      could with propriety be here inserted, woulda
I
                                                                         a
          it if

                  it

                         I
be read with much interest, he gave his reasons for declining,

adding these words:--
    " own seems to me, that the precise line to be taken by

those who think as you and profess to think,          to flinch

from no duty whatever, but to avoid all unnecessary inter

course."

     Upon this principle he steadily acted, and within short
time subsequent events connected with Dr. Brown, convinced
Dr. Milner's friends of the correctness of his judgment.

     Among the very extensive general correspondence main
tained by Dean Milner at this period, one letter, with his reply

to ought to be particularized.it,

Lady C. G:                          lady who not unfrequently consulted him

                        a
                             ,
                                 a
both personally and by letter, upon religious subjects, wrote to
him concerning her niece, who was about to unite herself in

marriage with      Roman Catholic, especially requesting his

advice as to the books which should be put into her hands.

     The Dean in his answer recommended the following

books --
402 CHAP. XXII. A.D. 1811. JET AT. 61.'

     Walker's (of Edinburgh) Sermons, several volumes; Maclau-
rin's Sermons and Essays; Archbishop Leighton, two volumes;
Adam's (of Wintringham) Works, three volumes; Walker, of
Truro, Tracts, Sermons, Lectures on Catechism; Joseph Milner's
Sermons and other works ; Doddridge's Rise and Progress, and
Sermons; Quesnel, On the New Testament, four volumes.

     One single sentence may likewise be gleaned from a letter
of nearly the same date, of a nature perfectly private :--

    " Boarding schools in general," writes the Dean, " unless
under very particular and favourable circumstances, I exceed

ingly disapprove."
                                                         463

                       CHAPTER XXIII.

Organization of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society. --Caution of Dr. Mil-
      ner. -- His Conduct misunderstood. -- Outline of Circumstances. -- Proper
      Conduct of Undergraduates.-- Dr. Milner's Advice to them. --Conference
      with Dr. Jowett, Mr. Simeon, Professor Farish, &c. --Dr. Marsh's Address
      to the Senate. -- Correspondence with Dr. Jowett. --Luther. --Letter of
       Mr. Vansittart. -- Meeting at the Town Hall on the Twelfth of December.
      -- Speech of Dr. Milner. -- Enthusiastic Reception. -- Extract of Letter
       from the Bishop of Bristol.

                                A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.

The organization of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society,
is an event not to be passed over in the biography of Dean
Milner. His conduct on this occasion was, perhaps, at the
time, somewhat misunderstood, even by some of those who
should have known him well ; yet it was in strict keeping with
his character, and precisely what might have been expected,
under the circumstances of the case.

     From the earliest period of its establishment, Dr. Milner
had been decidedly friendly to the Bible Society. He had
urged its claims to support, both in writing and in conversation,
on various occasions. With several bishops, and with both
the archbishops, he had corresponded, or conversed, upon the
subject ; and one, at least, of the latter, was so convinced by

his arguments, that he expressed his conviction, that the arch

bishops and bishops " ought to have been at the head" of the

Society in question.
     Decidedly, however, as Dr. Milner approved of the Bible

Society, the very peculiar circumstances attendant upon the
formation of the Cambridge branch, caused him to pause, and
to consider the matter in all its bearings, before he declared
himself a supporter of the scheme.

    A slight outline of the circumstances above alluded to, will

be necessary, in order to render intelligible the few extracts
hereafter given, from Dr. Milner's letters.

      Early in the month of November, about two hundred
464 CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.

undergraduates resolved to take measures for the establish

ment of an Auxiliary Bible Society at Cambridge; and, in

order to carry their design into execution, they, very properly,

applied to their seniors and superiors for advice and direction.
     Towards the end of the month, a deputation from this

body of undergraduates waited upon Dean Milner to request
his countenance and assistance. The Dean, although highly
approving both the motives and the mode of proceeding of
these zealous young men, was, nevertheless, fully aware of the

danger of encouraging, or of being thought to encourage,

insubordination, by appearing as a leader in any plan which
originated with undergraduates. He therefore replied to the
deputation, as several of those who composed that body,
doubtless, well remember, in very cautious terms ; not, indeed,

checking their ardour in a cause to which he was himself

heartily attached, but strongly advising them to retire from the
conduct of the affair, and to place it entirely under the control

of their superiors in the University.
     This deputation waited upon Dr. Milner but a few days

before his accustomed journey to London, to attend the De

cember meeting of the Board of Longitude. On the 25th of

November, Dr. Marsh, the Margaret* Professor of Divinity,

published An Address to the Members of the Senate, occasioned
by the Proposal to introduce into Cambridge an Auxiliary Bible

Society.
     This address set forth the danger with which, in the opinion

of Dr. Marsh, the Church of England was threatened, by a

society whose members were indiscriminately Churchmen or
Dissenters, and of which it was the fundamental principle to
distribute the Bible only, in the authorized version, without

note or comment, and unaccompanied either by the Prayer

Book or by any human composition whatever.
     Dr. Milner, having given to the whole subject his most

            it,
                                                      it,
serious consideration, and thinking                        as he wrote to the
Bishop of Bristol, " big with consequences," held a conference

respecting  with some of his most valued friends, Dr. Jowett,

* Margaret, mother of Henry VII. Professorship founded in the year 1502.
CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. /ETAT. 61.          465

Mr. Simeon, Professor Farish, &c, on the evening previous to
his departure for London. Sufficient information concerning
what passed at this conference, and concerning the line of con
duct eventually adopted by Dean Milner, may be gathered

from the extracts hereafter given, from letters, or from the

Dean's speech at the actual meeting.

                            "Kensington Gore,

"Dear Jowett,               6th December, 1811.
" I know not whether my next letter will convince you, that
I act rightly in this affair ; but I cannot help expressing a wish,

that my cooler friends would, at least, think a little, whether

some very material objections to my appearance at the meeting,

do not occur to them.

   I" will thank you to communicate any new facts, as they

occur.                      " Yours truly,  I. M.

" To the Rev. Dr. Jowett."

    A long letter written by Dr. Milner on the following day,

(December 7th,) to the same friend, has this passage :

    " The determination which we came to, on Tuesday evening

last, was, not to drop the business, but to suspend it for the

present, and to take it up next term, if circumstances should be

found sufficiently favourable."

     The Dean proceeds to state, that he had learned, with
surprise, that, notwithstanding the above determination, a
public meeting had been actually called. After briefly reca
pitulating the arguments of those who had been concerned in
this step, he thus writes :

    " In reply, I must content myself with giving you a few of

my thoughts ; it would take a great deal of time to detail all
that has occurred to me.

    " 1. Every reason unites to induce me to be very concise in

discussing the soundness of that discretion, which has led
yourself, and my other friends, to take the step which you have
taken.

                                                                                                 2H
46G CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. /ETAT. 61.

    " It is too late to alter what is done --you are pledged --

moreover, believe me, Dr. Jowett, it is painful to me to dwell

Ion a measure taken by my friends, which measure, think

precipitate and hurtful to the cause. However, to pass it over
without any remark would hardly be kind ; and would cer
tainly savour of affectation, and perhaps, of superciliousness.

    " 1 have used the word precipitate, because it is the very

Iword which, think, precisely suits the case.

     "Marsh is persevering and indefatigable, and you have
allowed no time for resisting his efforts. You call the meeting,

almost at the moment when his remonstrances are at the height

of their effects.

    " Various and efficient answers to him might have been laid

before the public ; and men would have had a little time to
digest the materials. As it the enemy strengthened, and
                           is,
"Ithe real, actually subscribing friends are frightened.
         think you are entirely deceived in supposing, that the;

undergraduates would have been exasperated to excesses,I
                                                  is
&c, &c.                                                                ;
    " grant, that                                             a
                                                         it ;
aI                 is if   cold answer, implying that the matter

would be dropped, had been given to those spirited youths,a
such consequence might have been apprehended but we had

no such idea, at my rooms, on Tuesday last                                was merely

proposed to suspend for the present, with                               view to the

bringing of the business on again and do feel quite assured,

that uhder a promise of that sort to the undergraduates, they

would have acquiesced entirely.is

    " That my opinion most decidedly.
    "At any rate, the thing should have been stated to the

youths, viz., to the undergraduates, and their absolute declaration

should have been obtained, that they had dissolved their meet

ings, their committees, and, in short, their whole apparatus. In

my judgment, this the point which, above all others, called

for the utmost precision, in order that the mouth of calumny

may be completely stopped, and that  might not be even
                                     it

                                                  I
suspected that the undergraduates either flogged you into the

measure, or held the whip over you, in suspense.                          admit,
     " Don't misunderstand me. The undergraduates,
              CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JET AT. 61.            467

are the real movers in this matter; there is no dissembling

that. But still, I hold, and strongly too, that their meetings

should have been first dissolved or quashed ; in order that there

Imight not be that opening for calumny, which, fear, there

I is,now and must be.

    " did not mean to have said even the little which have
                                                             I
said, concerning the conduct of my good friends at Cambridge.
                                                                           ;
"The caUse    a          excellent; and see abundant zeal and
                   is                        I

activity and purity of motive, in the conduct of my friends

but may be question Whether, in this warm fervor of theirs
it

for action, and, in their eageriiess to make an impression at the

first onset of the combat, they have not totally disregarded the

making of useless waste of some of their troops or, to speak
       a                                        ;
           a
without metaphor, whether the zeal of several of my kindest

friends, who earnestly press my attendance at the expected

meeting, have not made them completely overlook the circum

stances which distinguish my particular case.

    " It very plain to me, that should be calumniated as
           is

               Ia
                                          a
                                    I

                                                   I
being the only Head of College who had stepped forward to

countenance   multitude of undergraduates who hdd been

holding meetings, forming committees, &c, &c, and however

easy you and may perceive the answer to be, believe, that

the effects of the slander would- be both mischievous and per

manent. It would spread in the world through the means of

unprincipled writers in newspapers, &c, &c, and my usefulness

in giving little help, sometimes, to the oppressed evangelical
           a

                  it

                     I
                           I

                                    iIf
clergy, would be very much cramped, and lessened. Impres

sions  of  the kind to   which      allude,  are scarcely ever removed.
       On    this head,       have   much    more in my mind, than
    "                                           :

                                                         it

                                                               I
judge either convenient, or necessary, to be mentioned at pre

sent. Suffice to intimate, that,             mistake not, ecclesiastical

questions, and politico-ecclesiastical questions, of great mag

nitude, are ripening fast for public discussion and requires

no great acuteness to see, that must tend to annihilate any
              I

                                  it
little weight which might hope to add to the scale, to be

pointed at as the only Governor in the University, who had

thought proper to join turbulent pupils, (as they would be
called,) in these delicate seasons.

                                                2
                                                   it
                                                          2
468 CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.

   "But how long am I to delay before I join my friends?

Circumstances must determine this. Yet so much is clear.

The connexion among the young men as a party, as a body,

must be completely broken up and at an end; and this must de
cidedly, and distinctly, and incontrovertibly, appear. There must

be no room for representing them as the nucleus about which

others have formed the several parts of this comet with its tail.

    "My inclination to join you, has induced me to reflect

very seriously whether, in case they could be prevailed upon,

even now, to break up formally before the meeting next

Thursday,     it might not remove my objections.    their  complying
              not to mention the improbability of
    " But,
Iwith such a proposal, am still convinced, that their compliance,

under such circumstances, would not answer the purpose ; that

is, such a step would be represented as a piece of finesse, and

would be open to the imputation of insincerity and political

"Imanagement.
           am perfectly sensible, dear Jowett, at how very great

Ia disadvantage am reasoning on this subject, and how unlikely
it is, that I should produce an entire conviction in the minds
of my friends, when I am going contrary to their wishes, and
also, when I am, by the circumstances, compelled in my own

defence to censure what they have done ; or, in softer terms, to

deny, that they have been sufficiently discreet.

     "However, in this detail, which has swelled to a much

Igreater magnitude than had intended, I trust my good friends

will, at least, not fail to discern a sincere respect for their judg

Iment, and an anxiety to satisfy them, that act, on this occa

" Ision, with mature reflection.
           have no fear whatever of being deemed selfish, or timid,

or indecisive, or a shabby fellow of half measures. If my

general character, now at the age of above sixty, will not
support me against such charges, it is not my appearance next

Thu"rsTdhaey  that could do so.   been  quoted  to  me as  a  stimulus.
              name of Luther has

Now the fact  is,

                                          I
              that Luther, with all his vehemence, was the

most cautious man in the world not to offend against order and
good government. He acted precisely as do, and that, on an
occasion not very dissimilar.
        CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.                     469

"In regard to the late troublesome contests in the Uni

versity concerning the Vice-Chancellorship, &c, it is not pos

sible to produce an instance where a man was more perfectly

I Ifree than was from personal feelings. Add, that was called

out of my chamber by the University, to the office of Vice-

Chancellor. I did not seek the situation, nor wish for it ; but

order, decorum, great questions of morality, were said to be

at stake ; and so, in good truth, they were.

    " I might safely defy any one to produce an instance where

I have failed to stand forward with every grain of weight with
Iwhich
        could load the scale of evangelical religion. But

observe, with the character, or even the mere clamour against

me, of having supported turbulent undergraduates, it would

have been absolutely impossible for me to have helped Mr. S

last spring against the Bishop of Ely.
I I" After all, will not say, that
                                           might not, under certain

circumstances, still be justified in appearing.

   " I beg you to be discreet and cautious.

                                           "Yours,  I. M.

"Bev. Dr. Jowett."

     The characteristic letter from which the above extracts are
taken -- extracts valuable, doubtless, to those who conceive it to

be matter of interest to be made acquainted with the genuine
workings of Dr. Milner's mind upon this most important

occasion, was followed up, on the very same day, by another, of

which the substance here follows :

        "To the Rev. Dr. Jowett.

"Dear Jowett,                              " Kensington Gore,
    " After having
                    written             ,                  December 1th, 1811.
                                           two whole sheets of reasons,
                             almost
I I&c, &c, find that have still so much to add, that it will be
impossible for me to be ready for the post." * * * " Mr.

Wilberforce has been with the Chancellor this morning, and

has used all his influence to induce him either to go to Cam

bridge, or, in some way, to make his approbation of the thing

known--and all without effect.
470 CJIAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811, jETAT. 61.

   I" Be assured, that am truly friendly to the business ; and
Jthough probably must not appear at the approaching meeting,
I II believe, that shall convince most of my friends, that shall

I Ihe enabled to do abundantly more service by staying away.
mean, in the end, and perhaps, soon. But                                                         do verily
Ibelieve, that might be crippled from doing any material
service by stirring just now --such a door would be opened to

calumny.                                                                                         I may avow

     ''The moment may not be very distant                   when                                  Milner."

my   "reTahsoenps oospt ebnelyll,IIIthat     publicly.
                                   actually  rings.
                     it
                                             Yours ever,
                      I
                                           is,
                                                 is
                                                            I.
                                                                                               is
     On the 10th of December Mr, Vansittart thus wrote to
Mr. Wilberforce.

"My    dear Sir,                   the  Duke  "London, December 10//*, 1811.
    "                                         of Gloucester, who agrees with
        have just left

me in thinking very material that the Dean of Carlisle should

attend the meeting on Thursday. If the meeting                                                     thin,

which hope will not be the case, the absence of such an

indi"vidTuhael   will be  still more to      be regretted.  as we could                          desire;
                Duke's    disposition        as favourable

and think that the reasons he assigns for not attending are

such as we ought to acquiesce in,
                                   " am ever, my dear Sir,
                                                        " Faithfully yours,
" To Wm. Wilberforce, Esq."                                    " N. Vansittart.

     In truth, Dr. Milner needed no solicitation to join the pro
moters of the Cambridge meeting. His heart, as the extracts
above given from his correspondence with Dr. Jqwett plainly

show, had, all along, been with them. The next letter proves,
that, notwithstanding his cpnstitutional caution, and his reason

able and well-founded hesitation, he had almost made up his
mind to make his public appearance among the supporters of
the cause.
             CIIAP. XXIIL A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.           471

             "To the Rev. Dr. Jowett.

                               "Kensington Gore,

"I"Dear Jowett,                Tuesday, December 10th, 1811.

am greatly disappointed in not hearing from you this

morning, especially as I have heard of a material alteration in

the Chancellor's disposition, viz., that he will subscribe fifty

guineas, and if appointed President, will not decline the office.
I am equally, and perhaps more, surprised at not hearing one
Iword from the Bishop of Bristol.
                                               mean to wait here for

letters to-morrow till about one o'clock, and if I see a fair
Iopening, consistent with my views, may yet be with you.
                               " Yours,
                                                  I. M."

     He was with them; and his speech at the splendid meeting
which ensued will supply whatever may still be wanting to this

account of the formation of the Cambridge Bible Society.

    It is unnecessary to enter here into details concerning the

meeting, held in the Town-hall at Cambridge, on the 12th of

December, 1811.

Those who were present at that meeting, however numerous

the meetings in aid of the same noble cause which they may

have since attended, will never forget it; and with respect to
other persons, the full accounts which were published of the
proceedings of that memorable day, are still to be met with.

The following speech, which was delivered on that occasion by
Dr. Milner, will be doubly interesting to those who have read

the preceding extracts  from his confidential  correspondence.
     After moving the   resolution entrusted
                                               to him, " To return

the thanks of the meeting to the Earl of Hardwicke for his

acceptance of the office of Chairman," Dr. Milner spoke as

follows :--

    " My Lord and gentlemen, After hearing the able speech of
the noble Earl in the chair, and the very satisfactory statements

             it,
                                           it

                                     I
contained in as also the several eloquent and argumentative

speeches which have followed,  must be obvious to your

Lordship, and to this whole assembly, that there can be little

cause for me to say more, than that do most sincerely and
472 CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.

most heartily concur in the sentiments which your Lordship, at
the opening of this business, placed in so luminous a point of
view, and which have been so powerfully supported, and

received with such unanimous approbation.

    " I was perfectly aware, my Lord, from the very first agita

tion of this business, that it could not be either necessary or

expedient for me, at any public meeting, to enter into a minute
detail concerning the constitution of the Bible Society, or its

proceedings. On these points much better information than

Iany could pretend to give, was to be had, from the numerous

documents which have been printed, and everywhere circulated.

The subject has been thoroughly weighed and sifted ; and able

and distinct answers have been given to every objection which

the most suspicious imagination could devise. Moreover, if
Iany further light should be wanting,
                                       knew that several

gentlemen would not fail to be present, who, from their steady

zeal, indefatigable activity, and long experience in the good

cause, are admirably qualified to give prompt and satisfactory

answers to every question.
I" Still, however, there were a few topics which,
                                                         had

conceived, might, with sufficient propriety, be briefly touched

upon by myself, viewed as a member of the Established Church,

and as a Head of a College ; especially as a late Address to our

Senate, by a learned Professor of Divinity, had drawn the

public attention to the consideration of the objects of the Bible

Society.

    " Now, even these topics have been anticipated this morn

ing, and so very ably anticipated, that if any one is disposed to

suspect a mixture of ostentatious desire in my mind to be

among the foremost in the discussions of this day, such a

person must conclude that I may be mortified, not a little, on

finding all the materials which I had intended to employ used
Iup,
and    better applied than could have applied them.
       will be said, ' the Dean of Carlisle should have  sooner
" It

made known his intention to be present;' for, in fact, all the
arrangements for the orderly proceedings of the meeting were

Isettled before it was understood, that should, probably, be

here.
             CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. .ETAT. 61.  4?3

I" mention this circumstance, my Lord, for no other

purpose than to afford myself an opportunity of introducing

the real reason of my doubt and hesitation, respecting my

attendance at this most respectable assembly.

    " Your Lordship has heard, that this measure originated in

the zeal and activity of a number of ingenuous undergraduates,

who discovered a great desire to see instituted, in this place, an

Auxiliary Bible Society. The very moment I heard of their
Idesign, saw the danger that must arise, if such a plan, and its
execution, should remain in their hands. If undergraduates

-- persons in statu pupillari -- should proceed to hold meetings

Iand choose delegates, such proceedings, thought, would be a

just subject of alarm and of animadversion, however pure and

laudable their intentions might be.

    "On this occasion, however, those of the undergraduates

who stood forward, conducted themselves in the most unex

ceptionable manner. They stated their object to several

persons of considerable standing and experience; and, among

Iothers, was one to whom they were anxious to explain their

views and wishes. In particular, they signified to me, at

Queen's Lodge, their earnest desire to have the business of

instituting an Auxiliary Bible Society taken out of their own

hands, and transferred, as they, with great modesty, expressed

"Ito the hands of their superiors.
       am sorry to trespass so long upon your Lordship's
it,

                 I

                                    it
patience, and upon that of this assembly: but there are two

points upon which judge extremely important, that should
                                        I
give my decided and unqualified testimony. The first respectsI

"Ithese youths themselves.
           do affirm, that nothing could exceed the modesty of
their deportment, and the moderation exemplified in their

whole conduct.a     affirm, that, after more than forty years'

residence in this University, during which period have seldomII

been an inattentive observer of what was passing, and after

having" noted variety of popular meetings of undergraduates,

yet at no time do remember any one instance where the zeal

and fervour of youth was so entirely under the dominion of

good sense, and so completely tempered with prudence and

discretion.
CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.

    I" The other paint to which am to testify respects myself.

    " Perfectly docile as the undergraduates showed them

Iselves to be, still felt the most imperious necessity laid upon
Ime, on no account to promote their purposes, till was con

vinced, that there did not exist among them even a germ

which might possibly grow into anything like a disorderly

combination.

    " If they were to speak out, they would probably own, that
Ithey thought returned them but a cold answer at Queen's

Lodge. For, though my heart was with them, as to the grand

object of establishing an Auxiliary Society; and though it was

well known that I was to be depended upon for a steady

adherence to the principle of the Parent Society; yet there

were many circumstances which called loudly on me to be most

particularly careful, to give no ground whatever for its being

said, (what, after all, probably will be said,) that one Head of a

College, secretly or openly, directly or indirectly, had been

active in encouraging seditious or turbulent spirits. I frankly
own, my Lord, that for some days I did seriously hesitate

whether it might be prudent in me to appear at all at this
I Imeeting.
am not sure, that was not too much alive to

suspicion and jealousy: but whether it be, or be not, true, that
a disposition to be over-cautious, -- the result of age, and of
having experienced a great deal of misrepresentation, -- carried

mc too far, and kept me too long in suspense, it certainly is

true, that nothing but an explicit information, and R full con

viction of the truth of that information, that there exists not

among the undergraduates at this moment anything like an

improper combination, or anything that ought to create a
suspicion of such a combination; a conviction that, if there

has existed among them a symptom of a tendency to anything

of this sort, (which, however, I find absolutely denied) it is now
finally quashed and annihilated, --nothing, my Lord, short of

such a conviction, could have removed my scruples, or induced

ine to countenance this meeting.

    " No one, I trust, will be so uncandid and disingenuous, as
Ito construe what now say, into an ostentatious exaggeration
Iof the importance of my attending or not attending ; all that
                CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. /ETAT. 61.                                              475

desire, is to close up every avenue to misrepresentation ; and

this point being settled, I shall never scruple to repeat, with

peculiar delight, that it is to the everlasting honour of the
undergraduates, that the ardour of youth, in the best of causes,

has been directed by the most signal and extraordinary spirit of

wisdom and moderation.

    " In regard to the grand object of this assembly, as well as

                it
                    is

                                                 iIt,
to the opposition which has been made to               may be very

brief.          my entire persuasion, that the history of

    " My Lord,

mankind, since the days of the Apostles, does not afford any

instance of such numerous and animated exertions for the

distribution of the word of God, as have been made during
the last seven or eight years. The sacred flame -- will run
                I
                         I

                                                it

                                                     I

                                                                     I is
the hazard of being denominated enthusiastic or superstitious,

while our Bibles teach us, that the preparation of the heart
from the Lord, and while read, in our Liturgy, that from God

all holy desires, good counsels, and just works do proceed --

say, the sacred flame of zeal for spreading the Holy Scriptures

among the nations, has pervaded all ranks and orders of
Christians; and rejoice in contemplating this mark of the
Divine goodness, that God hath put into our minds to be the

instruments of spreading the knowledge of the kingdom of his

Son. Therefore, while others excite needless alarms, and

indulge unwarrantable suspicions, let us continue our endea

vours to put Bibles into the hands of those who have them

not; resting assured, that every calculation which concludes
against the expediency of our doing so, is, in some part of
                                it
undoubtedly erroneous.              is

    " My Lord and gentlemen,                                       I it,
                                with pain and regret, that

am compelled to allow, that there are certainly persons of great

learning, rank, and general respectability, who not only do not

approve of our proceedings, but who also persuade themselves,

that they see in them great danger. The author of late
                            it is

                                                                        ;
                                                                                             a
Address to our Senate one of those persons and though his

address  is is  but short,  contains imputations which every

member of our Establishment, who subscribes to the Bible

Society, called upon to repel.
476 CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. jKTAT. 61.

   I" When left London yesterday in the afternoon, I knew

not whether the heavy charges imputed to us who are of the
Establishment, and who also contribute to the support of the

Bible Society, might not be brought forward and enforced at
Ithis meeting.
                      therefore prepared myself, with the aforesaid

Address in my hand, to make upon it such concise remarks,

paragraph by paragraph, as occurred to me on the perusal

of it. But judging from the perfect unanimity which pre
Ivails in this numerous assembly,
                                     now think it better to

reserve myself, on this subject, to another opportunity; when,
Ieither through the press or otherwise,
                                         may, if necessary or

expedient, take into consideration the soundness of the argu

ments, the candour and Christian charity of the insinuations,

contained in the address of the very learned and respectable

author.

    " My Lord, though I am under no anxiety respecting the

impression which this Address may be supposed to make on the

      I

            it,

                       I it,
mind of any one who reads            and notwithstanding the reso

lution which have just expressed of remarking very little on

the contents of       at present, must request kleave to trespass,

for few moments, on the patience of the meeting, with one or
a

two concise observations.            plain, that every member of the

    " In this Address
      a
          a

                    it

                    I it
                                 is
Established Church, who subscribes to the Bible Society,  is

treated as person who may, in so doing, probably enough, be

contributing to the very dissolution of our ecclesiastical esta

blishment. Now          must be allowed, that so heavy and

tremendous charge ought not to have been made on slight

ground; and posterity,             think, will scarcely believe, that the

foundation of this charge, that is, that the dreadful fault which

awe have committed, is, that we do our utmost to distribute
                  isthroughout the world, in the languages which the inhabitants
of the respective countries can understand, the authorized

version of the Bible, unaccompanied by any other book.
    " This the sole object of the Society to which we belong;

   Society which candour will admit, and which prejudice cannot
deny, to have done more in this view, during the short period
of seven years, than all the other societies in Christendom have
done in century.
   a
CIIAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.                      477

    "The term, authorized version, is emphatical, because

extremely important: it is so important in my mind, that
whenever the Society shall begin to publish their Bibles with

Iglosses, comments, or alterations of their own, pledge myself,
Ithat will instantly withdraw my name from the list of their

supporters.

    " But, my Lord, I will not dissemble, that this is far from a

complete statement of the grounds of the objections of our

adversaries. There appears to be, in their minds, a corner, in

which resides the principle of a rooted aversion to any con

nection in religious concerns, with Christians of any denomi

nation, if they dissent from the Established Church. By per

mitting dissenters to join with us in this excellent work, we are
said to throw weight into their scale -- we desert the Establish

ment --we encourage and promote defection from it. This, this

is that solid nucleus of dislike and hostility ; the nucleus which,

after enveloping itself, like the comet, in much nebulous

obscurity, terminates in a fiery tail of portentous magnitude.

   I" My Lord, bring forward distinctly the objection that is

made to us, on account of our connection with dissenters,
Ibecause, on all occasions of contrariety of sentiment,
                                                         feel

almost an instinctive aversion to vain and fruitless contentions

Iconcerning the outsides of questions. On all occasions wish

to meet fairly the real points in dispute, and to grapple with
Ithem : and so in the present instance.
                                         am convinced, that if

several of our most respectable adversaries were now present,

Iand among them, may well reckon the learned author of this

Address, they would say, that they heartily joined in many of

the handsome things that had been said this morning, respecting

the extraordinary exertions of the Bible Society; and that, in

translating the Bible, and dispersing it into foreign parts, we

had done well; but, that we marred everything by having

formed an amicable junction with the dissenters from the eccle

siastical establishment of this country.

   I" Here, my Lord, although the promise which have already

made, not to trespass upon your Lordship's time, forbids me, at

this moment of perfect unanimity, to produce any unnecessary

Idetail of argument, must not sit down without expressing my
478 [CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 6I.

complete dissent from the principle, which seems to pervade

almost every part of the learned Professor's Address, now in

my hands.

   " The principle of the learned author, I say again, seems to

he, to have nothing to do with dissenters, in any concern con

nected with religion. Now my principle is toto calo different.

    " Lamenting their dissent as much as any memher of our

Establishment can do, and wishing prosperity to the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge, as sincerely and as ear

nestly as any member of that Society can wisha      would still

                                      II
                                            I iIt,

                                                               is
go hand in hand with the dissenters, as far as can. It only

    if                                        do not dread the

               it,

                  I
when cannot help         that leave them.
;Idissenters, as they were infected with contagion -- cordially

rejoice to shake hands with them, on all points where we do

agree nor do see any inconsistency in maintaining with
    I

                    a
                               a
them, on such points, friendly intercourse, and at the same

time exercising over them jealous attention in the points

where we separate from each other and this take to be, the
                                  !                    I'
true line of distinction for Churchmen*.' Further,                 am
                                        I
deeply convinced, that the dangers of dissent, and even dissent;I

itself, are best encountered by conciliation whereas, both

dissent and its dangers are strengthened by irritation, oppo

sition, and exclusion.

    " Your Lordship knows very well, that am one of those who

think, that the Roman Catholic question of Emancipation leads

to considerations and inquiries of immense magnitude; yet

whatever circumspection  may think requisite on that head,         it I I
it,

     I
                     I
should never have any scruple to give Bible to Roman
                                           a        a
                                                 a
Catholic: should never scruple to join with Roman Catholic

in promoting the distribution of Bibles to others. In fact,

should look upon the dispersion of the Bible, and the free use

of to be the likeliest way in the world to bring about more
                                                       a

complete reformation from popery. History teaches us, that

was by garbling the Bible, by keeping the Bible out of the
hands of the people, by forbidding translations of the Bible

into modern languages, that popery was enabled to keep its

                  * See Dr. Marsh's Address.
CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETkT. 61.      479

ground so long among the nations. The great Saxon Reformer,
Martin Luther, was so well aware of this, that while in the

retirement of a secret asylum to escape the papal fires which,
at that time, were on the very eve of being lighted for his
destruction, he employed the hours of his privacy, with inde

fatigable industry, in translating the Bible into the German

language.

    " My Lord, the learned author of this Address is too well

versed in ecclesiastical history to have forgotten, that for some
time before the death of that eminent supporter of the blessed
Reformation, the Elector of Saxony, Frederick the Wise, it was
an afflictive consideration to the mind of that truly pious and
conscientious prince, to reflect, that the word of God had not
its free course in Germany.

   " I have but one word to add. It appears to me, that to

maintain^ that Churchmen cannot safely join with dissenters in
distributing the authorized version of the Bible, amounts to
this declaration, that we Can safely join with them in nothing of
a religious nature; a position surely not of easy digestion, in a
country where Christianity has produced, in any considerable
degree, its genuine effects of universal disinterested benevolence.

   I" Ever since the first agitation of this business, have, from
time to time, and with all the care of which I am capable,

examined the foundation of that apprehension of danger on

Iwhich so much stress is laid, and am compelled to avow, that

an intercourse and an agreement with the dissenters, --of which
intercourse and agreement, the dissemination of the Holy

Scriptures constitutes both the basis and the superstructure, the

beginning and the end, and all the intermediate parts, -- in

itself, utterly free from all reasonable objection and, that, so
    a

                   it,

                                                   ;

                                                          is,
far from widening the breach between us and the dissenters,

such an intercourse tends to lessen  and to bring us nearer

together; while, on the other hand, an excessive spirit of jealousy,

isdistrust, and suspicion, has tendency to irritate the temper, to
exasperate animosities, and to increase disunion in the country.

     "There not any one member of our Church Establish
ment who entertains a more exalted idea of the excellence of

our Liturgy, and of our Prayer-book in general, than do, and
                                     I
480 CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. JETAT. 61.

I heartily wish that Christians of all denominations could be

persuaded to adopt the use of it; but as this is not to be

expected, while dissenters of several denominations adhere to

their present system, I would not represent the distribution of

the Bible alone, as dangerous to the Establishment, without the

corrective* of a Prayer-book of the Church of England.

    " My Lord, our Liturgy itself, owes its establishment to the

Ifree use of the Bible among the people ; and greatly mistake,

    among the numerous errors of the Church of Rome, there
if,

          a
exist more dangerous tenet, than that the Holy Scriptures
themselves must be tried at the bar of the traditions of

fallible men.

    " The late printed Address to the members of this Univer

sity would justify me in making many other observations on the

different parts of      but forbear, for the reason already given.
If that should appear, which at present does not appear, viz.,it

                           ;
                                a

                               I

                                          if
that the author of the Address has, in any material degree,

convinced the public mind, that we, who subscribe to the Bible

Society, are unfaithful members of our Church Establishment,

it  may then become necessary to defend ourselves by exposing

his misrepresentations. Again, the members of the Society
itself should discover disposition to depart from their avowed

principle of printing the Bible without note or comment, we

may then unite to check that disposition, or even proceed to
the length of quitting the Society entirely. Lastly, other
                                               is

                                                 it

                                                           is

                                                             if
objects inimical to the Church should, indeed, as intimated,

appear to be associated with its main object,  to be supposed

that the artful, politic dissenters, will be all awake, and the

simple, honest, harmless, unsuspecting Church-of-England men,

fast asleep

    " On the whole, and in conclusion,
             ?                                 am compelled to
                                              I
                                                            I
observe, that in this short Address to the University of Cam

bridge, there appears to be such an accumulation of unkind

intimations, suspicions, and conjectures (all of which, must
suppose, were intended to have their effect), as calls for much

             * See Dr. Mabsii's Addrtti."-- Original Note.
         CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.      4S1

Igreater confidence than have yet acquired in the author's

ability for judging of the probability of future events.

   I" must own, I do sincerely wish, that the spirit which but

too evidently pervades almost every part of had been more
             '
                                  ; is
                                             it
                                                   is it,

                                                                               is
conciliating, and had, in general, savoured more of that true

Christian charity which hopeth all things.'

    " That Holy Book, my Lord, the dissemination of which

the glorious object of this meeting, itself the real cure of all

dissent, and of all hurtful contentions and  my firm belief,

that all persons who receive the word of God in sincerity,
a
excluding neither Roman Catholics nor the members of our
     if
own communion, did but read and study their Bibles more con

stantly, and with more devout care and application, and more of

direct view to improve the heart and correct the practice,

Christians of every denomination would approach much nearer

to one another than they now do would actually coincide, or
                           ;;
nearly so, in most essential points and, in regard to subordi

nate matters, they would exercise so much mutual kindness and

forbearance, as would almost annihilate the evil of any remaining

difference of sentiment."

    It impossible to describe the enthusiasm with which the

above speech was received. Perhaps the circumstance, that, up

to the very hour appointed for the meeting, was not publicly
known whether Dr. Milner would or would not appear at the
Town-hall, might, in some degree, account for the extraordinary
demonstrations of delight with which his appearance was hailed

but these had, of course, subsided, and many most eloquent and
animating speeches had preceded that which he delivered yet
the effect which his address produced was astonishing, and was

doubtless to be mainly attributed to the entire respect univer
sally paid to his character, and to the full conviction entertained
of his sincerity, and of the purity of his motives. The reluct
ance which was well known that he had felt to take any
public part in proceedings which might be misrepresented as
inimical to discipline and good order, now told in manner
gratifying beyond measure to the friends of the Bible Society.

In short, the weight of his character, joined with his admitted
is

                                                     it

                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                          ;

         it

                                             a

                                             2

                                              i
482 CHAP. XXIII. A.D. 1811. jETAT. 61.

mental superiority, was irresistible, and was felt to be so both

by friends and enemies.
     The Bishop of Bristol thus wrote to Mr. Wilberforce on

the day after the meeting: -- " Unfortunately, for reasons which

I Iwill explain when we meet, could not attend the meeting,

but our great and admirable friend, the Dean of Carlisle, did,
and there exercised his extraordinary powers to the credit of
himself and the furtherance of this most important cause, which

I have the happiness to say was well planted, and is likely to be

thriving."
     The assisting in the "well planting" of the Cambridge

Auxiliary Bible Society was the last important public act of
Dr. Milner, in the year 1811, and it was one upon which, to
the end of his life, he looked back with unmixed satisfaction.
His subsequent exertions in the same noble cause will be noted
under their respective dates.
483

                         CHAPTER XXIV.
XVIII.The PMMDDtoDNorfiooorueemw.ctpwshetenaihescsWireatnaY--inicgUtlebitnoAaweCSindArvrooc.fvfelhol--fierlfcroisgoAcceoCiertertlo.iyc.oAtrah.o--rntn--eb--.ssaiLCsp--wPeGhaoPeetnoreLetrrldpenecirsesesrtelnsot.etvreocn--a.aetr--lols.DdM.A--Me--rCers.oowcBicrTrnhhoiriMtbokebuahs.alsinesprB--ihoscGionhosaPSfodh'pleosevorctneoepiipetIcrfcniuetnoeyYqormn.siuofvui--erwiirnCtkanysigga.tRt..h.a--r--e----OliinvstVrsCh.lCCdteeiooesa.rCnirrMt--Bteshcais.srooeFt--ph.hlrfrooitocoLnMpmSold.iaotcueQe--sfniuistnMcceeOkelsAraroptsi.npimhoifncVnfiswi.pi.a.eoinnn--toh-tsf

      sittart. -- Mode of Reading. --Marginal Annotations. -- Speech of Robert
     gmDbaH*orreoais.ddnulg*l.reM--Cv.aiilvlat--*Fn.isinet--trhDgrisce'etsA.a"FntL--rhAeSeiencpiAcndnoecedoeifvcsc.teutehM--err..sarr----aD.terBeSyCTaoikobitllrnillhrtoeooeatfsworspySoftloheonneDdRc.diger--ee.CesntaiyCcMdmoeoeiM.fnlbnnsGreceic--dereiregat'nseiMmanttiegmoNa.uCAian--seauricrn.CxelgiTosi.ler--lierasoe.trsfH--iypmetohRonBeednrimeebianttilenleucsriersmncStes,oonwctci"CoeieptltsheryCer.agDtm--tbyryy.

                                 A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.

The usual College and University business filled up the prin
cipal part of the month of January. With regard to his private
occupations, Dr. Milner's papers show, that, during the early
part of the year, these were chiefly a correspondence with some
members of the Government concerning the existing state of
taxation on fines paid on the renewal of leases ; the considera

tion of the Catholic Question, respecting which, with a view to
the discussion of it in print, he had collected copious materials
for the direction of his judgment*; and the necessary preparation
for an answer to Dr. Marsh's newly-published Inquiry into the

Consequences of neglecting to give the Prayer-book with the
Bible, an undertaking which he already meditated.

     On this latter subject he thus writes :--

"To William Wilberforce, Esq.
"My dear Friend,
                                        "February \2th, Queen's.
    " You expressed, some time  ago, a wish, or at least half a

wish, that I might be drawn into a controversy with Dr. Marsh

· See Chapter XXII.             2 i2
484 ClIAP. XXIV. A D. 1812. /ETAT. 62.

Ion the Bible Society business.              was rather surprised at what

you said, and have thought much of it since his pamphlet cam 2
-- an imposing pamphlet, but very objectionable. Many of our

Istrong friends are at me to answer ; but what can say of the

judgment of some of them (Owen, for instance), who, in talk
with me, agreed, that it was not worth answering, and that it

could not do any good to answer it; then he goes and talks

with a warm friend or two, and in a few hours writes me a note :

--' To arms, to arms ! they all say Dr. Milner should answer

him.' What can one say to such work ? Still, if imperiously

Icalled upon, ought to give way. They talk of the weight I

should give to the cause, &c, &c.

    " In these circumstances, the line I take is, to pause, --not

resolve, yet not be idle, --read the pamphlet, make remarks, --

and so prepare. I have told Mr. Dealtry, that I really think

him the fittest, but that if a codicil of mine, to his will, would
    g"ooI dw, isIhwyoouuld
do                           add one.
                            would seriously
                                             think of  it.  I am not fit for a

battle ; yet have the will, if necessary.

    " There is one thing which I wish you to attend to instantly,

and with all your might ; viz., to prevent the effect of mischief

on Perceval's mind.

    " He is with us as yet, and I confess, I hope, that he is not a

man to suffer from such dust as Dr. M. throws into one's eyes;

but all  should be done to prevent such an effect.
         am appointed to preach, as they call before
    "I                                       I I it,        the  King,

on the 28th instant.        have not absolutely made out whether
it
    is

          I
                  I
       to be at Whitehall or at St. James's.                believe the lattera;

and though am so exceedingly pressed for time, and almost

overwhelmed with one thing or another, consider this duty

matter of great importance.
    "
    I    hope  to  be       with you on   the 27th.
                            Yours most   affectionately,
                    "                                       I.      M."

     Dr. Milner's private record of his correspondence, during   a

the months of January and February, mentions, among vast
multitude of others, many letters which he wrote to the Arch
bishop of York, the Bishop of Llandaff, Mr. Dealtry, Mr.
       CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1813. ^TAT. 62.                            485

Otter  &c, concerning the recent formation of the Cam

bridge Auxiliary Bible Society, and his own conduct on that

important occasion. Many, to members of the Chapter, on

Carlisle business ; and some, to friends and strangers, on philo

sophical or mechanical subjects. He likewise, during these

months, completed the correction of the first, second, and

third volumes, with a part of the fourth volume, of the Church

History, with a view to a new edition, which his publishers had

for some time desired to bring out.

Still, amid his numerous and various occupations, he had

almost constantly, some one principal object in view; some

object to which, his thoughts, when at liberty, naturally turned.

That object, at this particular period of his life, was the pro
ducing of an efficient answer, -- one that might outlive the
particular circumstances which called it into being, -- to Dr.

Marsh's attack upon the Bible Society.

Accordingly, the numerous memoranda and other docu

ments found among his papers of this date, shew, that this

object was now uppermost in his mind.

Among the various documents of this nature, is a letter

from the Rev. Ch. F. A. Steinkopff, minister of the German

Lutheran Congregation, Savoy, London, and one of the Secre

taries of the British and Foreign Bible Society, dated early in

February, and communicated to Dr. Milner, through the

medium of the Right Hon. N. Vansittart, comprising some im

portant remarks upon certain observations published by Dr.

Marsh in his Inquiry, concerning some statements made by

Mr. Steinkopff in his speech at Cambridge, with regard to

the want of Bibles in Germany.

    Mr. Steinkopff thus writes :--

   " To the charge of colouring, I reply, --the facts need no

colouring. They speak for themselves. It, undeniably, has

       a
                                                                a

                                                         it,
pleased God to bless this Society, and to render                   within a

short time, and in most remarkable manner,        blessing to

mankind. My constant wish and prayer is, that no human

       * Subsequently Bishop of Chichester.
48G CUAl*. XXIV. A.D. 1U12. jETAT. 62.

applause may ever lift me up, nor any human censure dis

courage me ; but that, with a single eye and steady step, I may

be enabled to promote the glory of God, and the benefit of my

fellow-creatures.
I" consider it one of the happiest events of my life, and
Ishall, trust, rejoice in
                           even in dying hour, that have
                   a
                             it,
                                                   a

                                                                               ;

                                                          I
been privileged as feeble, though willing instrument of the

British and Foreign Bible Society, to put the Scriptures into

the hands of so many of my poor countrymen, and of others

belonging to different nations of the Continent who, plunged,
as they have been, into all the horrors and calamities of a long-
protracted war, stand more than ever in need of the consolations
of the Word of God."

Such a testimony, from such man, to the value and use
                   is
                                                 a
fulness of the Bible Society, cannot be read with indifference.

The whole letter   exceedingly interesting; but the extract

thus given, may be sufficient to show its nature and character.

     About this time, (the second week in February,) certain
circumstances connected with the conduct of the Society for
Promoting Christian Knowledge, of which society he had long
been member, induced Dr. Milner to desire to inform him
a

self accurately concerning the actual operations of that religious

body. With    this view,   he ordered, from         his bookseller, as
              his private                           of the publications
appears from               diary, " the whole

on their list." Many of the Tracts, &c, distributed by this

society, were, of course, already in his possession; but was
                                                      iIf a
his constant habit to take the most direct road to whatever it

object he had in view; and          that object appeared to him
                   a

                             if
important, he paid little regard either to labour or expense.

    At the same time, subject intimately connected with his

duties as Dean of Carlisle, claimed his attention.    National

    It had been determined to establish in that city

School but, among the promoters of this benevolent institu
I
tion, there existed differences of opinion concerning the arrange;

ments to be adopted. On the 3rd of March the Bishop of

Carlisle thus wrote to the Dean  :

" can only add here, most unequivocally, that                                     have
              CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.       48?

anything to do with the plan, that plan must be to educate for

Ithe inculcating of the doctrines, and for the adopting of the

principles, of the Established Church. would hold out this

fixed rule, and define it in words that cannot be misunderstood ;

and then I would say, ' Ho, every one that thirsteth, come and

drink.'

   " I shall mind nothing that others do, but keeping my eye

intent upon the object, the support of the Church, (assailed as
it is from all quarters,) do all in my power to secure it. You

shall know all that I' have in contemplation before it is at all

made public.  " Dear Dean, yours most truly,

                                       "Saml. Carlisle."

On the day previous to the writing of the above letter, the

Dean had been in London and had had a conversation with the

Bishop on the subject of the intended school at Carlisle. To

that conversation he again alludes after his return to Cam

bridge ; when he writes as follows :--

   " When I conversed with your Lordship, I had not seen the

printed paper signed ' T. Walmsley the last clause in which
paper, viz., ' unless such reason be given for their non-attend
ance*, &c.,' is certainly not without some ambiguity. It can

scarcely be supposed to relate solely to cases of ill-health and

necessary confinement.

    "To me it seems to hold out an opening to the children of

dissenters, whose parents or guardians may have no objection
to their learning the Catechism, Liturgy, &c, but who are still

desirous that they themselves should have the superintendence

their children at their own

 " Plan 1. now find, that
Iof                          respective places of worship.
                             both our Archbishops so interpret

the clause, that they shall consider it a sufficient reason for non-
attendance if the parents, guardians, &c, shall engage, that the

children under their protection shall attend divine service,

according to the practice of their own denomination.

* Viz., for the non-attendance at Church of the scholars in National Schools.
488 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.

    " I myself saw his Grace of Canterbury.

    " Plan 2. The other plan would be to say, fairly and openly,

that the school is intended for those poor children, and those
only, whose parents or guardians will declare that they wish
their children to be brought up, bond fide, members of the

Established Church.
I" Sincerity obliges me to own, that
                                       see most good in the

former plan ; it is my firm belief, that the former plan would

produce most Churchmen. It is even possible, that the two

schools at Carlisle might be consolidated.

    "The second plan, if proposed so as to be perfectly free

Ifrom ambiguity, would, think, among other evils, narrow the

subscriptions exceedingly.

    If" the second plan is to be adopted, it would be my most

earnest desire, that not a particle of ambiguity should be left.
The system of asking no questions appears to me very objection

able. If a dissenter really wishes his child to be brought up a

Churchman, let the thing be done openly and explicitly. For if

Iit be done, as it were, by connivance and sub silentio, foresee

nothing but irregularity, and hypocrisy, and snares-- children

separated from their parents, and under no order on Sundays."

By return of post the Bishop thus replied :--

"To THE VERY REVEREND THE DeAN OF CARLISLE.

"My dear Dean,                         "March 10, 1812.
" Dr. Law was very correct in giving you a sketch of my

"Iopinion, meaning, and intention.   I that have no idea of
             must beg leave to repeat  iIf it,
                                               I
refusing any child the benefit of education upon account of his

or her parent's religious principles. Any child will be allowed

to enter, provided he will conform to the rules of the school.

The principal of those rules will be, that they learn the Cate

chism of the Church of England, be instructed in our Liturgy,

and give their regular attendance on the Sundays at our church.

These are indispensable conditions,    have anything to do

with the conduct of this school.       educate professedly for the

Church, not for the conventicle.
          CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JET AT. 62.                  499

" The * indispensable conditions' above-mentioned will be

palmed upon no one by artifice, or by any obscure hint,
disguised meaning, or delusive contrivance. The intent of the

plan will be detailed by public advertisement; and the rules

and orders of the school will be printed, circulated, and hung

up publicly in the school, and read to every parent who brings

his child for education.

    I" really am at a loss to reconcile what you say of our two

Archbishops, with the original plan which was held out to the

public, and with the rules and orders, (a copy of which I here

inclose,) which were drawn up, and are now adopted in the new

school in Gray's Inn Lane, with the consent of the Archbishops,

and the General Committee.

    " If a school upon Dr. Bell's plan be wanted anywhere, it is
at Carlisle, where Dissenters and Methodists do so abound, as I

am informed, and where the force of education has been almost

entirely exercised in favour of those who vary or dissent from

the Establishment. It is high time that something should be

Idone for the Church ; and do not see upon what grounds any

one can object to such a purpose. There are many dissenters

who are so, from not having had opportunities of being taught

better ; and such would be glad to have their children properly

educated. There is education enough to be had in Carlisle for

those who dislike our Church. They have never been dis
Iturbed in going to those places of education.
                                                claim the same

freedom ; let no one disturb us.

"The idea of consolidating the two schools is absolutely

inadmissible. Educating merely for the world has been tried ;

and the present confused notions of true religion, and the

Iperfect indifference to all religion, do, in my conscience,

believe to be the result of it. Let us see what educating for

God will do.

   " Whatever I do in this business shall be open and clear, as

the sun at noonday. There shall be no snares, no hypocrisy,
no setting of children at variance with fathers and mothers, no

deception of any kind. The plan of education will be fixed,

publicly  set forth, publicly exhibited, and,  in consequence,
publicly
          known. If dissenters or others do    not like  it,  they
490 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. B2.

will go elsewhere; if they do like       tl:ey will observe its
rules -- they will conform to the plan.
                                         It will be impossible
:

               I
                                                      it,
                                                                  is
                                                                                it
                                                                                             is
to vary the plan according to the judgment or caprice of every

dissenter.       " am, dear Dean,
                             " Yours very faithfully,
                                         "Saml. Carlisle."

     The next two letters which passed on this subject are

curious and as the point under discussion important,

allowable to give this correspondence at some length.
     The Bishop and the Dean each wrote on the same day, the

12th of March. The Dean, however, detaining bis letter till the
following post, the Bishop's communication consists chiefly of

   repetition of his own opinions, to which added an expres
sion of doubt as to the Dean's having rightly comprehended
the sentiments of the Archbishops, and more especially those
of the Primate.

     Dean Milner repUed as follows --
a

                                                                                        :

                                                                            is

            '"'To the Lord Bishop of Carlisle.

" My dear Lord,                    " Queen's Lodge, March 12, 1812.
" Excuse me in adding a single word. The printed paper

by the General Committee, signed, T. T. Walmsley, Secretary,

contains sentence which            not in the Rules and Regulations
a
        is
                    '

                               is
which your Lordship has been so kind to send to me.
     " The Rules and Regulations say, Punctual attendance at
                                   '
these hours  indispensably necessary.' The General Com'

mittee's paper says, The children are required to attend Divine
service in their parish church, &c, unless such reason be

assigned for their non-attendance as shall be satisfactory.'
" adverted to this clause in my last.
I

                           it
" Now, my Lord,                requires little foresight to predict that

the question will be constantly asked, What reason will be                                     is
deemed satisfactory?' especially as the Committee's paper in

general circulation.

    " If, in the Rules and Regulations, immediately after the

words 'punctual attendance at these hours                                                  is  indispensably
             CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.  491

necessary,' there were added the following words, or words to
the same full effect, ' unless such reason for non-attendance be

assigned, as shall be satisfactory to the director of the school ;
and it is particularly to be observed, that any attendance at
dissenting places of Divine Service will not be considered as a
reason for non-attendance at the proper place under the Esta

Iblishment,' would certainly do my best to make such a plan
Ieffective, because conceive, that it would meet your Lordship's

ideas both as to the plan itself, and as to its perfect openness --

Iat the same time, sincerely regret, that you do not happen to

think with our Archbishops and some of the Bishops, because it

is my belief, that in their construction of the aforesaid sentence
we should actually make more real Churchmen*.

    " Such differences of opinion arc, I believe, unavoidable in

this world; but they are entirely consistent with a good mutual

understanding, whenever there is a full explanation among the

parties.

   " I fear I must have been misunderstood, when your Lord

ship speaks of ' varying the plan according to the judgment or

caprice of every dissenter.'

   I"The whole difference, so far as understand our Arch

bishops, or conceive it myself, is limited to one single point,

viz., whether the attendance on Sundays at dissenting places of

worship shall be considered as a reason for the non-attendance

of children  at Church.      written               "March 13, 1812.
                                      yesterday, but missed the
    " N.B.    So far I had

post". This morning brings me your Lordship's letter of yester

day, March 12.

    " As there is nothing which I more thoroughly deprecate

than misunderstandings, and the consequent fendings and
Iprovings,
             have used every possible precaution to prevent

them in this business ; and  after all, have got hold of
                             if,

                                           I

                                                                                it

* It will appear, hereafter, (see Chap. XXVI.,) that the Dean firmly

                       maintained and acted upon this opinion.
492  CHAP. XXIV. A.T). 11112. /ETAT. 6>.

Iwrong, shall be so disheartened as to think myself incapable

of making such an inquiry with success.     I cannot be

    " 1. With respect to the Archbishop of
Imistaken: wrote the words down in his Grace's presence, and
read them over to him. According to him, ' Dissenters of any

denomination, undertaking to carry their children to their own

respective places of worship,' is to be considered as a' satis

factory reason.'

    " 2. I did not ask for the liberty of writing down the words
                 in his presence ; but I wrote them down
of his Grace of

presently afterwards. He said, that ' were he Bishop of          ,

as heretofore, he should think it a sufficient reason for non-

attendance, if parents, guardians, and other respectable persons

who had the care of the children, would engage, that such

children should attend Divine service according to the practice

of their own denomination.'

    " His Grace added, (what, I think, will demonstrate to your
Lordship's mind, that I did not misunderstand him) ' that it

was possible, though exceedingly improbable, that a case might

arise where the children of the school should be chiefly dis

senters; and that he was of opinion that an extreme case

of that sort might be left for consideration till it actually

happened*.'

    " This, my dear Bishop, will clearly explain to you, in what

way the word extreme has crept in.

    " No other case, except the aforesaid extreme case, was

alluded to ; nor any other local circumstances whatever.
     "And as to my putting particular questions and cases to the

Archbishop, there was no case -- no question -- about which I

could have the least doubt, except that which arises out of the

last sentence, so often mentioned, of the printed paper signed

    * Here, in the copy which Dr. Milner  the course of conversation, his Grnco
kept of this letter to the Bishop of      paid, 'that ho should, otherwise, have
Carlisle, there occurs the following      looked upon it as an insult to the dis
passage, which, however, is crossed       senters, to invite thcni to send their
out: --                                   children to the school.'"

  " I particularly remember, that, in
CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. /ETAT. 62.                                     493

by the Secretary, viz., ' Unless such reason for non-attendance,'
&c, &c.

   "I certainly did wish to know what reason would be deemed

satisfactory; and I do humbly hope, that no candid considerate
Churchman will think that I have been obtrusive, or have done

wrong in inquiring of the Ecclesiastical Head of our Church,
and his brother, the Archbishop of York, how they understand

a practical sentence, which is admitted, by all with whom I have

conversed, to have in it some obscurity.

                                  " I am, my dear Lord Bishop,
                                           " Yours faithfully,
                                                    " Isaac Milner."

     That Dean Milner had not misunderstood the sentiments
of at least one of the Archbishops, is proved by the following
passage, which occurs in a letter written by his Grace, and
dated, "April 3, 1812," found among the Dean's papers*: --

    " You wish to know in what sense I understand the discre

tionary power, given to the persons having the direction of our
schools in the country, to admit of reasons for any children's
non-attendance on the Lord's day, at some place of public
worship under the Establishment.

    I" was present when this subject was discussed in the

Committee of the National Society, and have no difficulty in
stating, that it was meant that, in instances of children whose
parents or guardians were dissenters, the latter should, on
application for the purpose, be allowed to take them to their
own place of worship; but that, in failure of their distinctly
engaging to the Directors of the school so to do, the children
were not to be excused from their attendance at Church.

                                                   " I am, &c, &c."

      Upon the blank leaf of a copy of the above letter from the
Archbishop, Dr. Milner has written as follows: --

* See also a letter from Dr. Milner to the Archbishop of Canterbury,

                               Chip. XXVI.
494 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

("The following passage was also in the letter of the

Archb.

    " ' In my opinion, were we to proceed on any other ground,

we should justly subject ourselves to the charge of intolerance,

promote the views of our adversaries, and fail in the accom

plishment of our own.'                     school the boys

    " The Archbishop informed me, that at

bring a card, to prove that they have attended somewhere.")

Whatever may be thought of the Bishop of Carlisle's

judgment on this occasion, his openness and plain-dealing

throughout the whole affair, must command respect.           He

replied to the Dean's letter as follows :--

" To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle.
"My dear Dean,
                                           "March 17, 1812.
I" have again and again considered your last letter, and I
Iam quite clear that have as good a right to understand words

in their plain sense and meaning as you, or the Archbishop of
York ; and my conscience cannot be bound by yours or his.

    " The National has nothing hostile in it to persons of any

persuasion ; nor does it hold out prohibitions which can be

tortured to mean intolerance. It simply lays down a plan, (as
I have done, in conformity to it,) and says, that all who come

must conform to it.

    " As you seemed to have particular objections to the words,

' children of all religious denominations/ I have desired Dr. Law

to omit them, and to say, ' All children admitted into this

school must strictly conform to all the rules of it. The prin

cipal and fundamental rules of the school will be, that all

children received into it will be instructed in the Liturgy and

Catechism of the Church of England, will attend the prayers

used in the school, and go with their Master to church regu
larly every Sunday,' &c. This is plain, beyond all doubting,

and covers all the fears and apprehensions of persons not

knowing what will be required of the children. A printed

paper, also, somewhat similar to that of the Baldwin Gardens'

School, will be circulated, and given to every child's parent or
            CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.                                                        495

guardian ; so that it will be impossible for any to be deceived,

Iorto  think himself entrapped or ensnared.                                                 head.
         hope to hear that you are satisfied upon this                                      copy of
    "                                                                                                the
    "  I write to Dr. Law, (who has just sent me a

proposed advertisement, as he says he has to you,) by this post,

to propose this alteration, and to beg him to expedite some

subordinate matters, that we may begin our work.
   I" I would once for all declare to you most solemnly, that
Ihave not one grain of bigotry or intolerance in me.
                                                                                            know

and like and esteem many Dissenters as much as Churchmen.

I love Mr. Howard, although a Roman Catholic, as much as I

do my Protestant neighbours. But in establishing a school

professedly for the education of the poor in the doctrine and

discipline of the Church of England, it is first my duty to

contrive a plan for doingI    and then to see the plan faith
fully and strictly executed.I
                              No one has right to find fault
                                      it,

                                                                                         a

                                                 I
with me for acting in this manner, and nothing shall beat

me from it.

   "I find fault with no Dissenter or Roman Catholic for

educating his paupers as he thinks proper.                                                  look forward

    " Veniam petimusque damusque vicissim.

to immense advantages occurring from the establishment of

this school, in letting the community know what our Church
Establishment and its doctrines are. At present they have but

little chance of knowing their beauty, excellence and propriety.

                          " am, my dear Dean,
                                       " Yours very faithfully,
                                                "Saml. Carlisle.

    " hope very shortly to have my Propagation Sermon to

send you."

    It ought to be observed at the conclusion of this animated

correspondence, that the Bishop did not content himself with
merely establishing the Carlisle Diocesan School. He con

scientiously paid to the most sedulous attention giving
his personal superintendence, and spending in several hours
every week. These frequent visits to Carlisle, of course, threw
him more than ever into the society of the Dean, whose com
            it
                                                      it

                                                                                 ;

                                                                           it
496 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

pany he valued and enjoyed, and for whose mental powers he

entertained the most unfeigned respect.
     He rode over from Rose Castle for the purpose of attend

ing the school, every Thursday and Saturday; and on those
days seldom failed to pass some hours with the Dean. The
conversation, on such occasions, generally turned on some
weighty religious topic ; and few persons could listen to
Dr. Milner's observations upon such subjects, without ad

vantage.
     Dean Milner's correspondence, at this period, furnishes a

variety of interesting matter.
     The following cheerful letter written on his return from

London, shows, that his fondness for mechanical occupations
remained undiminished :--

                "To the Rev. C. I. Latrobe.

"Dear Sir,                           " Queen's College, March, 1812.
I" was obliged to leave London on Saturday last ; sooner
Ithan I could have wished, as had several things to do which

were left undone.

     "Thanks for the music, &c. My niece says it seems very

hard, but she is tolerably patient. Miss Hague took part of it

home yesterday, for practice. It seems, she had never seen
any of that author*. It does look like hop, skip, dance, and

jump, in a great style.

    " What think you of my being at the Ancient Music, viz.,

at the rehearsal of on the Monday after saw you in Lon
?                                              aI
              ;

          I

                         it,
                                 it
don The Archbishop of York gave me ticket, and intro

duced me and very capital really was        !

    " You see come on apace. Many thanks for securing me

the Turkey stone, or Jad stone, not that know what Jad
                                               I

means; but Mr. Antes knew, no doubt; and his judgment  is  to

be relied on."           **
a
                      *
     (Here follow some minute directions about the purchasing
of cutting engine.)

                             * Hfethovoii.
CITAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.                   49/

I" hope you will make it convenient to visit us at Cam

bridge before long.

                 " I am, dear Sir,
                       " Your affectionate and sincere friend,

                                                  "I. MilNEr."

     During the same month (March, 1812) Dr. Milner thus

wrote to a person in business, who, having conceived a strong

desire to go into Holy Orders, was anxious to procure a Uni

versity education :

    " I would not advise the dearest friend I had in the world,

to go to College, (unless he had a fortune,) except he had con
siderable abilities to push his way ; and after all, there is an

amazing deal of accident in the getting of Fellowships and

such like.

    " Further, if you have a sincere desire to serve God in the

Church, and to dedicate yourself to Him, and to be content in a

low station, you will be satisfied to get into orders (as many

excellent men have done,) without going to College; witness

Mr. Richardson of York, one of the most respectable clergy
Imen in the kingdom.
                      throw out these considerations to make

you pause and think, and examine your own mind.

     "Keep the thing to yourself; pray to God for light and

guidance. If your real desire be to serve God, you will have

very little anxiety about College. Your great concern will be
to study the Scriptures : especially the Greek Testament.

Nothing that I have said need hinder you from improving

yourself in learning."
     In the year 1812, the Mastership of Downing College

became vacant by the death of the first Master, Dr. Annesley.

By the will of the Founder of this College, Sir George

Downing, the Master is elected by the Archbishops of Canter

bury and York, and by the Masters of St. John's and Clare

Hall, Cambridge.

    It was necessary to mention these circumstances, in order

to render intelligible the following letters.

                                                 2K
498 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

       "To his Grace the Archbishop op York.

"My dear Archbishop,                         " Queen's College Lodge,
                                                  April 19/A, 1812.
" I dare say, I need not inform your Grace, that the two

Archbishops and the Masters of St. John's and Clare Hall,

are the electors to the vacant Mastership of Downing; and,

that   in case of equality,  the Lord Chancellor is to decide.
                             residence here, make me to know the
    "  My age and long

candidates pretty well; and, in consequence, expose me to

applications from them for the purpose of inducing me to do

any little matter, which they suppose may be in my power, to

help their views; however little, or even absolutely nothing,

Ithat"mThayoubgeh.  am known to most, if not to all the candidates,
Iyet this is a case where can say, from the very bottom of my
Iheart, that have not a wish, except upon general grounds ;

that is, for the good of the University, at a period, in my

opinion, by far the most critical that has taken place for many

years.

   "Your Grace, I verily believe, acts upon the same prin

ciples; yet we all know, and most of us will admit, that*cases

do continually arise, where the circumstances make it very

difficult for us to take into our consideration nothing but the

merits ; and particularly, if the merits themselves be not very

       to settle.

       N.B. The
Ieasy"                                                               think
                    object   of this note  is chiefly  to say, that

your   Grace will do very well to be in      no  hurry to decide.
                                             in  such a matter, believe
    "  If you can give me any credit

Ithat    have reasons for    saying  this.   applicants  is, that,   not  for
       The answer which              to the
    "                        I give

Ione only, but for any or all of them, I am ready to state what

know to be true.    called at my Lodge yesterday, before I was

    " Lady

"Idown stairs in the morning. Her husband is in London..
                             am,     my"   dear Archbishop,
                                           Yours very faithfully,
                                                       "Isaac Milner."
               CIIAP. XXIV. A.D. 181?." JETAT. <!2.            499

     The following letter is more explicit ; but, at this distance

of time, there seems no good reason for suppressing it :--

"To ms Grace the Archbishop of York.

" My dear Archbishop,        during      " Queen's Lodge,      1812.
                                                               days,
   " I have been so unwell                        23rd April,

                                      the last two or three

that the very  looking  at paper was painful to me.    than    your
                 could  be more gratifying to me
    " Nothing

Grace's answer to my last letter, and that, on two especial
accounts :--
I" 1st. Because
                        perceive the entire confidence which you

"place in me ;

        2nd. Because my mind is set at ease, by finding that your

Grace's sentiments accord so precisely with my own.

    "Sir B. H. an old acquaintance; but the objections pre

 what you       mention,  and in a
Professor                  friend,
               C, an old
Icisel"y
                                    great  degree.     to   say, has
                                    who,     am sorry
Inot grown in my esteem for some years.
                                            will say no more,

Iunless

   "I
necessary.     instrumental  in  procuring  for  him   his  present
was very

situation at the India College; but could not now con
Iscientiously repeat what said then.
" Lens, an actual pupil of my own -- excellent scholar --
Istands well in his profession -- strong-headed man; but

have for years lamented his politics, and the lengths he is

said to go.
I" M. out of

" Frere, the
               the question, for the reason you mention.       his
               only one of whom have known but little ;

character very good.                                           C,

   I" believe the Lord Chancellor thinks well of Professor
Iand have heard, that he has given him his promise.

"They say, that Professor C. has also the Master of

St. J"ohSnir'sB. . H. has certainly the Master of Clare Hall.

   I" Any thing further that can answer, or any information

Ithat can obtain, will be at your Grace's command.

                                                 2 k2
500 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

"I" Is it fair to ask how your brother Archbishop is likely
to go ?  am, my dear Archbishop,
         " Yours very faithfully,
                                        "Isaac Milner."

    During this month of April, it was determined, that the
University should petition against the granting of the claims of
the Roman Catholics. Dr. Milner, who had well studied the

subject, drew up the petition.
    Towards the end of May in this year, the King of France,

Louis XVIII., at that time living in this country, under the

title of Comte de Lisle, visited the University of Cambridge.
He was received, of course, by the Heads of Colleges, in a

manner befitting his rank, and certainly by none with more

cordial and loyal respect than by Dr. Milner. Having come to
Cambridge without] giving any previous intimation of his pur
pose, there was little time for any formal preparations for his
reception. The Bishop of Bristol announced his arrival to
Dr. Milner, by a note, late in the evening of the 27th of May,
and on the following morning the King partook of a slight enter
tainment at Queen's Lodge. On such occasions of ceremony, it

is seldom, that any thing worthy of being recorded takes place.

A circumstance, however, did, on this day, occur, which made a

considerable impression on the feelings of all who witnessed it.

In the gallery at Queen's Lodge, there is, or was, a portrait of

General Monk ; the King observed
         a                            and after standing for              a

                                it,
                                   it,
few moments in silence, gazing upon with tears in his eyes,

alluded to the points of similarity between his own circum

stances and those of Charles II., adding a few words to the
effect that, "if ever General Monk should appear in the

course of his own chequered history (an event at that time
utterly improbable), he felt assured, that he should owe his

restoration to England."
     Dr. Milner's fluency as speaker of French was this day

put to a severe test. However, he was man not easily
disconcerted and the exiled monarch afterwards spoke of his
reception at Queen's as among the most agreeable passages of
his visit to the University.
         ;
                                       a

                                                                       a
CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.                         501

     The severe domestic afflictions which at this period oppressed
Dean Milner, rendered it extremely doubtful whether it would
be in his power to attend the ensuing chapter at Carlisle. His
married niece, who had long been ill, was now in imminent

danger; and the faithful old friend to whom he had so long

given a home at Queen's Lodge, or at the Deanery, was
incapable of travelling, and, in addition to bodily illness, had
lost, in a great degree, the use of his mind. Under these
distressing circumstances, Dr. Milner thus wrote --

"To the Bishop of Carlisle.

"My dear Lord Bishop,  "                 College Lodge,

                          Queen's

                                         31*/ May, 1812.
I" am under so great a pressure of anxiety, on account of
Itwo severe domestic trials, that have no heart to write at

length.

   I" am very sensible of your attention in remembering my

situation and that of my poor afflicted friend.

    " Another heavy family affliction may prevent my being at

Ithe next chapter. Three days ago, thought, that it certainly

would do so, but now there is a chance.
" I have been much gratified by your Lordship's sermon,
Ifor which I again sincerely thank you.
                                         have not yet
thoroughly looked into the learned part of it. I am slow in
Icriticizing Hebrew, but verily believe you are perfectly right.
Indeed, I am sure you are right in the matter of Balaam and

Balak.
    " There is an admirable sennon on this subject by Bishop

Butler.

    " Your ideas on spreading the Gospel, so opposite to those

of Bishop Ilorsley, most entirely accord with my views.
    " Excuse these hasty remarks, and believe me,
                               " My dear Lord,
                                       " Yours very faithfully,

                                                    " Isaac Milner."

    Dr. Milner was abotrt this time frequently stimulated, by
communications from various friends, to carry into execution
502 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

his half-formed design of writing such an answer to the attack

of the Margaret Professor upon the Bible Society, as might

serve as a permanent vindication of that noble institution.

     On this subject, Mr. Vansittart, himself an able and zealous
defender of the Society in question, thus wrote to him :--

« Sir,                                 " Eden Farm.
I" should have been happy in putting jmy little pamphlet
into your hands, by way of recalling to your recollection that I

had the honour of spending some days in your company, a few

Iyears ago, at Mr. Wilberforce's, even if had not also thought

it a mark of respect due to a distinguished advocate of the

IBible  Society at Cambridge, in opposition to Dr. Marsh.       con
          shall be sorry, however, if it has in any degree
    "

tributed to prevent your favouring the public with any observa

Itions you had intended to put together upon the subject.

should hope, that if the pressure of domestic cares, which

I sincerely lament, should prevent you from finishing any

observations that may have occurred to you, you would at least

prevent their being lost by communicating them to Mr. Dealtry

or Mr. Otter.

   I" have been by no means scrupulous in the distribution of

my pamphlet, but have taken the liberty of sending it to as
many bishops as were in Town, whether I had the honour of
Itheir personal acquaintance or not.
                                      considered it as a mark
Iof respect to do so, though could not expect to make much
Iimpression where, as suppose, a strong bias has been received,

one way or the other.
                    Ia have the honour to be, Sir,

        " With great respect, your obedient and faithful servant,
                                              " N. Vansittart.
" To  the  Very Rev. (he
                          Dean of Carlisle."

     Dr. Milner had been by no means negligent of the subject
thus pressed upon his attention. His private memoranda show,
that he had been, and was still, diligently engaged in collecting
whatever materials might be serviceable in the work which he

meditated. Among these materials may be mentioned some of
the speeches delivered by persons of talent and consideration
CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. C2.                     503

at the various Bible Society meetings held about this period.

It was his habit, when he read, to distinguish by peculiar pencil

marks such passages as appeared to him especially worthy of

attention, the peculiar mark employed, showing the degree of

his approbation or disapprobation. The copies which he used

of Hume's History, and of Johnson's Works, &c, &c, are full
of such marks. In like manner, he perused the printed

speeches above alluded to, with a pencil in his hand ; and it

may be worth while to mention, that among those included in

the mass of papers which he accumulated with a view to his

strictures on The Inquiry of Dr. Marsh, no one certainly is

more distinguished by approving marginal marks than that

delivered at Leicester on the 13th of April, 1812, by Robert
Hall. As it is probable, that very few copies of that admirable

speech are now in existence, there can be no impropriety in

inserting here those parts of it which he has marked as

peculiarly excellent. The friends of the Bible Society will

read these passages with satisfaction, and even its opponents

may possibly allow some weight to reasoning which appeared

conclusive to Dr. Milner.
    " To imagine," says Mr. Hall, " that such
                                               a  measure" (the
making of the Scriptures extensively known,)      can be carried
                                               "

into effect without being productive of much good, and, still

more, to augur mischievous consequences as the probable

result, approaches so near to an impeachment of the perfection

and sufficiency of the Divine oracles, that to my judgment it
appears difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish them. For

Imy part, am at an utter loss to conceive of a revelation from

heaven, that must not be trusted alone; of a rule of life and

manners, which in the same breath is declared to be perfect,

yet so obscure and incompetent, that its tendency to mislead

shall be greater than its tendency to conduct in the right path ;

of a fountain of truth more calculated, when left to its silent
Ifoperation, to send forth bitter waters than sweet.
                                                      these must

appear to a candid and impartial mind untenable and con

tradictory propositions, then must the chief objections of our

opponents fall to the ground, and their prognostics of danger

from the operations of the Bible Society, be pronounced
501 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 63.

chimerical and unfounded. Whoever weighs the arguments of

our opponents must be convinced, that they all turn upon the
following supposition-- that the Scriptures are so ambiguous

and obscure, that, when left to themselves, they are more likely

to generate error than truth. If this implies no reflection on

the excellence of the Bible, and the wisdom of its Divine

IAuthor, what, ask, can imply such a reflection ?" * * *

" To dread the indiscriminate perusal of the Scriptures : and,

under pretence of tender consideration for the weakness of the

common people, to prohibit their circulation, has always been

regarded as one of the most detestable features of popery: from

the very dawn of the Reformation, it has been stigmatized, by

Protestants of every description, as constituting a principal

branch of that mystery of iniquity!

   "But wherein does the maxim of our opponents differ from
Ifthat of the Papists on this subject ?
                                          any difference can be

perceived, it is certainly not in the nature, but in the extension

of the principle. The Papists contend, that the common

people are not to be entrusted with the Bible at all; while our

opponents assert, that they are not to be trusted with it alone.

The former instruct their votaries to shut their cars against the

voice of God altogether ; the latter insist, that it is dangerous

            except in immediate conjunction with their own
to hear     it,
                   *
                        *
                               *
                                    *

                                    I
interpretation.  Surely this must be considered as strange

language in a Protestant  country, and most offensive to Pro
testant ears."
                             " trust that none in the present

assembly will do me the injustice of supposing, that intend
                                          a

                                           ;I
                                                       I
any reflection upon the Liturgy. Though Protestant dissenter,

I  am by no means insensible to its merits  believe, that the

evangelical purity of its sentiments, the chastised fervour of its

devotion, and the majestic simplicity of its language, have
combined to place in the very first rank of uninspired com
                 '
positions. The maxim which we wish to establish, as amplyit
sufficient to overrule the objections of our opponents, simply
                                         is
                                                                is
that, which, in the hands of the immortal Chillingworth, was

found capable of demolishing the whole fabric of popery: 'The

Bible,' said he, and the Bible alone,       the religion of Pro

testants.'
             CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 18)2. jETAT. 62.        505

" Let it be carefully remembered, that the topics insisted

upon by the objectors to the Bible Society, are precisely those

on which the Papists have been wont to insist, in their contro

versy with Protestants ; the obscurity of Scripture, the danger

of misinterpretation, and the facility with which it may be

wrested to the support of heresy and schism. It is surely

little to the credit of our opponents, that they have no other

weapons to attack us with, but what have been undeniably

forged in the camp of the Philistines.

    "The direct benefit we contemplate as the fruit of this

institution, will undoubtedly be reaped by that innumerable

                                                      will be
multitude among all nations, who, by means of   it,

                                                                 ;
furnished with an opportunity of perusing the sacred volume

but there are other collateral advantages of the most important

kind, which have already been experienced in part, and may be

expected to accrue still more hereafter, from this admirable

Society. Among these, we cannot pass over its tendency to

promote      good understanding among Christians of different
       ;
              a

                             it
denominations. It pretends not, indeed, to cast any light on

the questions which have unhappily divided the Christian

world but, so far as its own objects are concerned, consigns
                                                a it
them to oblivion:                presents common ground of co-ope
                                 a

ration, and a centre of union without the sacrifice of principle,

or the surrender of the smallest atom of the respective opinions

and practices by which we are distinguished.is

    " It not too much to hope, that the attachment to the

Gospel avowed by those who have co-operated in the measures

of this Society, will be followed by an increased attention, on

their part, to explore its contents, to imbibe its spirit, and to

regulate their lives by its precepts and that thus the interests
                                    ;

of vital Christianity may keep pace with the more extensive

promulgation of revealed truth."

    In the first week in June, Dr. Milner's duty, as member

of the Board of Longitude, together with some University

business, again called him to London and, as usual, he took
                                       ;

up his abode at the house of Mr. Wilberforce, at Kensington

Gore.

The following memorandum appears in his private record
506 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

of correspondence. "London, June 3: a letter from Dr.           ,

dated May 31, on the marriage of his daughter." Dr.

had, many years before, been a pupil of Dean Milner, and,

notwithstanding certain passages of an unsatisfactory nature

which had occurred during their connexion, possessed his very

sincere regard.

    To the letter above alluded to, Dr. Milner, on his return to

Queen's Lodge, wrote an answer, from which the following

extracts, highly characteristic of his quick and sensitive tem

perament, are taken.

" My dear Sir,        " Queen's Lodge, June 10, 1812.
" * * * * Our Address to the Regent not having: been
delivered, I return to town to-morrow.

                                                                        "June Uth.

   I" So far had written according to the date above, when I

was interrupted so as to lose the post. I hurried to London

next morning to attend the Address -- kissed the hand of the
Prince Regent -- and returned here last night very much

fatigued.

    " These circumstances put together, will apologize for the

delay of a few days in answering your report of the marriage of

Miss  .
" You have had experience enough of me to know, that I
am very little in the habit of making professions -- they are

cheap commodities, and of little intrinsic worth, unless sup

ported by facts; whereas these, viz., facts, may be always safely

appealed to.

    "As my connexion with you, now, of between thirty and

forty years' standing, is hastening fast to a close, (judging both

from my own infirmities, and your prospects of advancement)

permit me to say, that in reviewing the numerous affairs in

which we have been mutually concerned since the day that my
      Iengaged you to me, as a pupil, have the satisfaction
Lord

to remember, that, on my part, your interests and comforts have

invariably been consulted, whenever it was in my power to give
proof of the existence of a truly friendly principle.

    " I do not wish to put you upon a similar review ; I have
                       CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.                  507

been led to say so much, at this moment, chiefly, in consequence
of your saying, that you have often been troublesome to me,

but, you hope, from necessity.  never              think  anything a   trouble,

   " Now, the fact is, that I

done on any occasion, or by any person, provided there do but

Iappear so much friendship and affection in the doer, that can

feel my character, and interests, to be in safe hands.

    " And I need not tell you, that though a conviction of this

sort may, sometimes, arise from friendly exertions in matters of
some magnitude, yet, that it is oftener the effect of a thousand

little occurrences which are almost daily taking place, and

coming, one after another, to one's knowledge.

    " The kindness of your deceased brother, the Bishop, from

the time that he knew my name in the University ; the esteem

which he constantly shewed for me ; and the manner in which

he used to express to others, his regard for me--all this, I

assure you, has sunk deep into my mind.

   " I do most sincerely take it kind, that you recognise, in

Iyour last, ' the anxiety,' which have ' often expressed about

the health of your daughter A                 ,,'  and that you inform me of

her  "rePcoevrmeriyt,   and of her marriage.
                       me, dear Sir, here to
                                              say,  that besides  the  general

feeling of anxiety, to which you refer, and which must always
                                                          I

experience for the health of an amiable young lady, my anxiety
has, in this instance, been very much increased by the convic

tion which have of the unlimited credit which have long
     I                                                    I
            ,I
                                                            I
believed, (on the very best grounds) to be due to yourself, as            aI a

tender and affectionate husband and father.               frankly own,

that have, with great pleasure, for many years, observed

this tenderness to be an ingredient in your composition and
                                                                       ;

therefore, desire, the more warmly, to congratulate yourself and

Mrs.                   on the event of your daughter's having made

connexion which promises so much happiness to all the parties

concerned."

     Dean Milner, at his accustomed time, went into residence at
Carlisle, and on his arrival there, found the following answer to
the above communication.
50S CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

" My dear Sir,                                " 20th June, 1812.
I" wish that this may give you the first intelligence of my

heing nominated, in the handsomest manner, by the Prince

Regent, to the See of      .
" I have examined my heart, as you desired me to do ; and
I find, engraven on
                   I       in deep and legible characters, the

recollection of most essential favours, received from you, by me,it,

in my earlier years --favours, which stamped my character;

which made me what       have been, and am.

                         " Believe me, dear Sir,
                                 " More than ever, yours,

                                              te

" To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle."

     The answer to the above announcementI                         certainly, suffi
ciently characteristic to deserve insertion.
                                      ;
" My dear Bishop,                          " Deanery, Carlisle,
    " Having written to you only  , I Ia      15th July, 1812.
                                                              is,
                                  few days ago, and opened

my mind pretty freely, (though,   hope, at no troublesome

length) and having also, in that letter, alluded to, and reckoned

upon, your advancement, (which was, indeed, at that moment,
in every body's mouth) was, when came to Carlisle, much
gratified on opening .your note which confirmed the reports of

your nomination to the See of     and, at the same time,

contained most grateful acknowledgments on your part, for

what you have the goodness to call essential favours from me,

which have stamped your character, and made you what you

have been, and are.                                                congratulate

    " With most earnest good wishes, dear Sir,
                           ;
                                 a
                                                             ;

                                                  I
                                                           I
                                                                I;
you on your advancement though in money concerns fear,

that one has not, yet, much ground for offering congratulation

but that may be set right in little time and in all events,

most earnestly and warmly hope, that your family cannot fail to

feel, in various ways, the good effects of your elevation.

    "Your most excessively strong expressions of regard, on

account of anything may have done towards laying founda
                I

                                                                                   a
             CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.                                                    509

tion for your success in life, cannot but be exceedingly grateful
to my mind, particularly now, in my declining years.

    " While I keep in remembrance what a stripling you were,
when first introduced to me, I must tell you, that unless you
take care to procure a very good wig, I shall not be perfectly

reconciled to saying, ' My Lord.'
            " Believe me, however, your Lordship's
                    " Very sincere friend, and obedient servant,

                                                 " Isaac Milner."

       This called forth the following jocular reply.

" My dear Sir,                               "July 21, 1812.
       " Amidst much hurry and expense, the only pleasure which
I have yet received from my promotion is, the warm expression

of regard which it has called forth from my friends. In that

list,   few   are elder,  none more valued   than yourself.
             your mode     of addressing me   depends upon
       " If                                                                                   my  wig,  it

cannot be too respectful ; and I'll tell you why. My wig-maker,

when he had put on my wig for Carlton House, and admired it,

Iadded, of his own accord, ' My Lord, am wig-maker to the

Dean of Carlisle !' You will allow that I cannot be in better

hands.

    " It gave me pleasure to see your hand-writing. Remem
bering me, as you say, a stripling, I hope you will always

recollect, and with pleasure, that you have "helped to make that

stripling a bishop". Ever, my dear Sir,                                                       yo_u_rs_, ___

                             " Sincerely and affectionately

                                                                                          it

" The Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle."

     The mention of the wig and wig-maker, in the two foregoing

letters, recalls to my recollection an anecdote, which, however,
trifling in itself, Dr. Milner sometimes told with much

humour.

     This peruguier was, or conceived himself to be, at the very
head of his profession; and, on Dr. Milner's, one day, entering
his establishment for the purpose of ordering a wig,- had
510 CTAP. XXIV. A.D. rni2; jBTAT. 62.

received him with the utmost politeness, but with the inquiry,

" Pray, my Lord," (for he took him for a bishop,) " Pray, my
Lord, does your
hunting in ?" "  Lordship   want a wig to go to  Court, or   to go a
                 What I"   exclaimed the Dean,               is there
                                                 bluntly, "
Ino medium between going to Court, and going a hunting ?
Iwant neither one nor the other. What want, is a good,

decent wig, to wear on ordinary occasions." This story of the

court and hunting wig, generally recurred to the Dean's

memory when any extravagant extremes were proposed in

conversation or otherwise.

     Dr. Milner had, this summer, no companion in his residence
at Carlisle; a circumstance which never happened afterwards, and
which had rarely, if ever, happened to him before. While his

brother lived, he was always with him, during at least a part of
the summer. Afterwards there was his old friend Mr.Tillotson;

sometimes his married niece, with her family; and during all

the later years of his life, myself: but this summer he was
quite alone. Mr. Tillotson was ill both in mind and body; and

Iwas left under proper care at Queen's Lodge ; and was with

my mother, then near her death. Mr. Tillotson, whose mind was

not yet entirely gone, wrote to the Dean, during the summer,

one letter, --the last which he ever wrote. It bears marks of a

wandering intellect; but   exhibits  strong affection, and a
peaceful and pious frame   of mind.
                                      It concludes with these
words :--

   I" pray God to bless you, and all our friends; not forgetting
dear Mary. I write very badly, but I know you will be pleased
that I can do so well.

                                                 " John Tillotson."

    Dr. Milner's occupations, during this solitary season at
Carlisle, were chiefly the writing or preparing of sermons, and
the revision of the last volumes of the Church History for the

new edition, which the publisher was now exceedingly anxious
to bring out. He preached at the Cathedral, as was his usual

custom, every Sunday during his stay; preaching likewise,
occasionally, for the Rev. John Fawcett, at his lecture, on the
Wednesday evenings, at St. Cuthbert's church.
OTAP. XXIV. A.B. 1812. /ETAT. 62.                  511

The surviving friends of Dr. Milner, and even those persons

who may have ohtained from this memoir of him, some little

idea of the depth and strength of his affection for those whom

he loved, will feel that, the steady performance of these duties,

at a time when he was suffering the most intense anxiety

concerning his dying niece, must have required no ordinary

exertion. His correspondence at this period was, as might be

expected, less extensive than usual. The accurate account

which he kept of his letters, written or received, mentions

daily communications with the family of his niece, as well as

many letters to and from Mr. Wilberforce. Of general cor

respondence, he appears to have carried on little, except such

as the kindness of his disposition would scarcely allow him to

decline, namely, the giving of advice to such persons, friends or

otherwise, as requested his counsel concerning the prospects of

their sons at College, or other subjects.

    A professional gentleman still living at Carlisle, and one to

Iwhom am indebted for various reminiscences of Dean Milner,

has related to me an act of kindness, performed towards

himself during this summer, and strongly illustrative of that

true delicacy of feeling which, in the Dean's case, was some

times partly concealed under a blunt exterior.

     On entering into business, in the year 1812, this gentleman,
by the advice of a person well acquainted with Dr. Milner's

Il"ibWereallli,tyMor.f           him  for the loan of 1001.
disposition, applied to               should not like to be
                                 "
         ," said the Dean,
Iconsidered as a money-lender; however shall look into my
Iaffairs, and you must call again." " When called," writes

Mr. , "he said, (putting the money, which was in bank
notes, into my hand,) ' There you will find one hundred pounds
Iand five shillings.' ' Then, Sir,' said I, ' will return you the
Ifive shillings.' And prepared to put the money into my
pocket-book. ' Count count it,' said the Dean
is                                                 see that

               it
                                    it,

                                   I I'
                                                                                               ;

                                                    I'
                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                      it
    all right: always be particular in your money matters.'
While making out the note, he said, suppose, that, according

to custom, must be made payable with lawful interest but

you shall not pay any interest;  will take care, that my

executors do not call upon you for any interest.'  thanked
512 CnAP. XXIV. A.B. 1812. JETAT. 62.

him, and obsenred that there was no need of that. At parting,
he kindly shook me by the hand, and said, ' Well, God bless

you ; I only wish it may be of service to you.' This, as I

afterwards found, was his way of giving me the money; though,

at the same time, he did not wish to throw me under such a

weight of obligation : for his solicitor told me, after his death,

that he remembered the note, with some others, being burned

in his presence."

   . Having mentioned Dean Milner's occasional bluntness of

Imanner, may venture to give another anecdote, brought to my

               by the                                in the same letter.
             sale," he                               gave ten pounds for
Irecollection

    " At a
                        swarmiteesg, en"tlemonacne,                       a  large

painting, representing St. Michael chaining the dragon. The

Dean hearing of expressed wish to see it; and the picture
                     it it,  a
was accordingly brought, and spread out upon the floor of the
                                 it, a
drawing-room. Looking at                 he said, Well, should not
                                        a            '     I
                                                        '
like to give ten pounds for such picture.'                 Oh, Sir,' inter
                                                                   I

posed,       bought          with view of making something by it.'
I'

  I'

            a
'Ah said he, tapping me on the shoulder, you expect then to
                                                     '

meet with greater goose than yourself; do you?' This rather

turned the laugh against me and being afterwards alone with
                             :

                                       I

                                                       it, I

                                                                     '
him in his study, said, that perhaps                 had deserved to be
                     I

laughed at on which he, thinking, no doubt, that;                     had felt
the force of his remark, added, by way of softening
                                                                         Well,

well, never mind, let those laugh who win.'                        have not yet

   " must say," adds my correspondent, " that
II
        a
                                          ;
                                                               is
                                                 I
found greater goose for the picture mine still."
        have already intimated, that Dr. Milner was by no means

insensible to real excellence in paintings. The picture in

question, which         well remember, had, in fact, although
               I

                                                                                                        a

showy and imposing painting, very little merit to recom

mend it.

The letter from which the foregoing anecdotes are extracted,

contains two or three other brief passages which, as embodying
authentic, although slight, recollections of Dean Milner at this

period of his life, may here be properly inserted.                 " was man

    " The late Dr. Hudson*," writes Mr.
                             a
                                                                       ,
                                                                                       a
               * Many years Prebendary of Carlisle.
             CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. /£TAT. 62.                             513

remarkable for his rough manner, which served, perhaps, to
Iconceal many excellent qualities.
                                                    was with the Dean just
after he had been attending the Doctor's funeral. ' Well,' said
     ' the Doctor
he,  Doctor wore   ishisgownoer.st.'M"any  people   wear  the  best  side  out ;
the
     " Talking of one who was styled a country squire, and who
Iwas in the habit of boasting of his riches, the Dean said, '

believe a man to get money should neither be too wise nor too

honest.' The observation applied with peculiar aptness to the
person alluded to."

    " Being one day in company with the Dean and the Rev.
JoobhsenrvFeda,wc' eTtht,atthme anlatitserricghenintletmheanSclreipfttutrhees.'r"oom; the Dean

    " The Dean's kindness and urbanity to young persons was

such, that, on one occasion, he had his electrical machine put in

order, purposely to amuse my son and another little boy, his

companion ; and he devoted a considerable portion of time to

showing to them numerous and various experiments."
     " In all our conversations, whatever was the subject imme
Idiately under discussion,
                              do not know that he ever let one

opportunity   pass, without   inmeepdrefusls.'in"g  upon  my   mind  the   im
portance of  the ' one thing

     The above anecdotes are certainly, as the friend who com

municates them remarks, "illustrative of some few of the

excellent traits which distinguished the truly admirable cha
racter of one who, in his day, stood forth a ' burning and a

shining light :'" and being such they will not be read without

interest.

     The following memorandum appears in the record of letters

already mentioned : " July 23. From Mr. Ogle (bookseller;,

Holborn, to ask me to write a Preface to Beveridge, On the

Thirty-nine Articles."

    This work, Dr. Milner, perhaps in consequence of the
distress of mind under which he laboured at this time, declined;

although his papers show, that, about this period, he considered

some of the Articles very deeply.
     On the 16th of August, Dr. Milner's long suspense con

cerning his beloved niece was ended by her death ; an event

                                                               2L
514 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. /ETAT. 62.

which, however painful to his affectionate heart, brought with
it all the consolation which could appertain to it; as the beloved

object of his long and tender solicitude undoubtedly died in

the true faith of Christ.

Dr. Milner had, from this time forward, little further induce

ment to visit Hull. That place was now associated in his
memory with the death of his niece, as it had long been with

that of his brother. However, he called there for the purpose

of taking me back with him to Cambridge. On this occasion

he did not, as usual, cross the Humber into Lincolnshire, but

went round by York, where he spent a short time at the house
of his valued friend Mr. Richardson, as well as a day or two,

according to his frequent practice, with the Archbishop at

Bishopthorpe.

     Arrived at Cambridge, a new scene of affliction awaited
him. Mr. Tillotson's mind and memory were now totally gone,
and his death was evidently at no great distance. Dr. Milner

paid him, during the short remainder of his life, the most

affectionate attention ; and although the regard which he bore

him was doubtless different, both in kind and in degree, from
that which he had felt for his own brother or niece, yet it is

needless to say, that a tie such as that which had for so many

years bound him to this "good man," could not be severed

without much pain to the survivor.

Dean Milner was left executor to his old friend, who died

possessed of some property, and who had several poor relations.
    The circumstances of Mr. Tillotson's death and burial are

thus noted in a memorandum-book kept by the Dean, with
           to his (Mr. Tillotson's) affairs :--
reference    John Tillotson died at the          Lodge  of  Queen's

    " Mr.

College, Cambridge, on Thursday morning, about one o'cloc^
October 29, 1812*. He was buried at St. Botolph's Church,

on the succeeding Sunday morning, November 1, 1812. All

the resident Fellows of the College attended his funeral."
     Few men probably ever spent a happier old age, or lived

* In this memorandum no mention is made of his age, hut he must hare
                   been nearly, if not quite, eighty years old.
CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.        615

and died more respected, than this good old man. It has been

already intimated, that Dr. Milner's connexion with him, had its
origin in gratitude for benefits received by his deceased brother
and himself, when they were in a state of poverty. To a man
of benevolent mind like Mr. Tillotson, the daily sight of the
friend whom he had assisted in adversity, now living in affluence
and honour, must have been a source of high gratification ; but,
besides this, by the judicious kindness of Dr. Milner, he was
enabled to enjoy precisely the life which suited him, and for
which he was fitted. His early habits were respected and
provided for. He had a room to himself, was permitted to

smoke, saw no company except such as he chose for himself

(one or two of the older Fellows of Queen's College), strolled
about the gardens, &c, at his pleasure, dined in the College
Hall, as a piece of extraordinary gaiety, on gala days, and was
regularly furnished with a Hull newspaper, and such other
reading as suited his taste. Esteemed by Dr. Milner, and
treated with regard and consideration by all with whom he had
any intercourse, the outward circumstances of this respectable
old man certainly left him nothing to desire; and it was the satis

faction of his surviving friend and grateful benefactor to believe,
that long before his last illness, which deprived him of the use

of his mental faculties, he had effectually made his peace with
God by faith in the Redeemer.

     Dr. Milner's testimony in their favour was, about this time,

solicited by several clergymen, desirous to be appointed to take
charge of a new church about to be erected at Liverpool, under
the auspices of the Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry. With
respect to the giving of testimonials, Dr. Milner was known to

be strictly conscientious, and his recommendations were, conse

quently, especially powerful.
     On this occasion, he thus wrote to the above-mentioned

prelate, in favour of a Fellow of Queen's College :--

"My Lord,              ,'          College Lodge,
    " Being informed,
                          Queen's

                       November 12, 1812.

                       that it is at present in contemplation

to build a free church at Liverpool, under your lordship's

                                   2 L2
516 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.

Ipatronage and protection,                      am induced to take a liberty in

thus intruding myself on your lordship's time and notice,
which nothing can justify except my most earnest wishes for

the success of the plan, added to my entire conviction that the

Rev. Mr.  , who is one of the Fellows of this College,

and a candidate for the church in question, is extremely well

qualified for the undertaking, and therefore likely to promote

the good objects which your lordship has in view.

    "Surely, my lord, there never existed a period in this

country, when there was a greater necessity for building

churches, and for filling their pulpits with such ministers of the

Establishment as have learning, zeal, and discretion. Wherever

Ithese qualities are happily united, am satisfied, that congre

gations will, in general, be numerous, well-informed, and

attached to the Church of England ; and moreover, under such

circumstances, dissenters will never fail to dwindle. Mr. B.,

Iin whose favour venture to trouble your lordship with this

testimonial, is now a Master of Arts of almost four years'

standing in the University. He has been a member of Queen's

College for the space of seven or eight years ; and during the

whole of his residence among us, his character has been

marked by everything that is praiseworthy. He is a person of

popular talents, very sound in his religious opinions, and likely
to draw together a large congregation, and to keep it out of the

hands of dissenters. He is well versed in classical learning --
composes well in English --and has ever been distinguished as

a proficient in the academical examinations.

   " I can add, with great truth, what I think is more rare -- he
Iis an improving character : for observe, with regret, that but

too many, when they have obtained their first degree in the

University, and have been admitted into Holy Orders, are apt

to  th"iTnhk,isthisatnothtetyhehacvaese  done   with  study.
                                          with   Mr.          ,
                                                                 who,  if your lordship
Ishould think him worthy of your patronage, will, doubt not,

continue studious and pains-taking as he has ever been. His
parochial labours are, I understand, highly spoken of at
                                                                       ;
but I confine myself to what I have myself known of him.

His principles and talents, with a strong sense of the duties
           CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. j<ETAT. 62.                   517

( f his profession, excellently qualify him to keep together a

Inumerous congregation, and to instruct them in a rational way;
   therefore certainly hope to see him placed in a situation

of that sort ; and if your lordship should think proper to be

Iinstrumental in so placing him, will venture to predict, that

Iyou will   never repent of it.  will  have  the  goodness  to  pardon
           hope your lordship
    "

this intrusion of,

                      "My lord,
                               " Your obedient and faithful servant,
                                                 " Isaac Milner,

" The Lord Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry."

     The gentleman thus warmly recommended was the successful
candidate.

     On occasion of a petition from the University to Parlia
ment, against Catholic Emancipation, the following remark

appears in Dr. Milner's commonplace-book :--

    "November     18, 1812. Adverse to       toleration?  of  admitting
                we are seriously alarmed     at the idea
    " No --but

Roman Catholics to legislate for a Protestant Church, to which

they are systematically, and from principle, hostile."

     The business of the Board of Longitude now called Dr.
Milner to London. He went thither during the last week

in November, and, as usual, spent some days at the resi

dence of Mr. Wilberforce, at Kensington Gore. At this time,
however, Mr. Wilberforce was so overwhelmed with busi

ness of various kinds, that this visit was productive of
very little quiet intercourse between the friends, who, in fact,
rarely saw each other, except in company. On the 11th of
December, Dr. Milner returned to Cambridge, with the purpose
of being present on the ensuing day at the First Anniversary
Meeting of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society. He
returned, however, with a severe cold and an unusually violent

attack of the constitutional head-ache, to which he was subject.

Great was the anxiety among both friends and enemies to the
Society, concerning the probability of his appearance at the
518 CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.

approaching meeting. His heart, however, was in the cause--he
made the necessary effort -- and by his speech surpassed the
expectations and hopes even of those who most highly esti
mated the value of his support.

     The speakers on this occasion were, for the most part, the
same who had taken part in the proceedings at the meeting in

December, 1811. There were the three Secretaries to the
Parent Society, Mr. Owen, Mr. Steinkopff, and Mr. Hughes;
men, certainly of extraordinary eloquence; and there were,
besides, Mr. Dealtry, Mr. Cunningham, Dr. Clarke, Mr.
Simeon, &c, &c. Lord Francis Osborne was in the chair.
If, among the eloquent addresses delivered on this day by
these distinguished men, the speech of Dr. Milner was received
with extraordinary demonstrations of satisfaction and admira
tion, the fact may, perhaps, be accounted for by the circum
stances of his former caution, and of his being still the only
Head of a college who appeared publicly as an advocate of the
Bible Society. - .

    He delivered the following speech :--

    " My Lord Francis Osborne -- Ladies and Gentlemen --

   "I Irise for the purpose of making a motion, which am

confident will meet with the universal concurrence of this

assembly.

    " It was not my intention to take up much of your Lord
ship's time on this occasion, even had I been in the most

perfect health, or ever so capable of attention to business.

But the fact
a                that a severe indisposition has almost closed
            is,
my eyes and silenced my voice; and, moreover,  a     painful
                                                    a
complaint of the head, to which have been subject for many
years -- complaint too, whichis I
                                   supposed to have very
considerable effect upon the understanding -- affects my whole

frame, and especially the mental faculties in a manner not to be

described, and only to be understood by those who have

suffered in somewhat similar way.

    " therefore feel assured, that your Lordship will excuse
II
              a
the conciseness of the remarks which, in my present situa
tion, shall presume to offer.
          CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. 62.                    519

     "There are, however, two obvious circumstances which
very much alleviate, if they do not entirely remove, any disap

pointment or mortification which may be supposed to affect my
mind, in this state of almost utter incapacity for exertion.

    "The first is, that the admirable speeches which you have

just heard from my right hand and from my left, have so
exhausted the subject, that there can be no defect --there can be
little further to desire. The very able and eloquent Secretaries
of the Parent Institution have both informed our understand

ings and warmed our hearts. Indefatigable and disinterested
throughout, they have laid every member of this Society under

Very great obligations.

    "The other alleviating circumstance is personal -- affecting

myself only.

    "YoU have not now to learn what my sentiments are

respecting the glorious institution of The Bible Society. I

have not scrupled to avow them everywhere; and, in par
ticular, at the last December meeting for the formation of this

Auxiliary Branch, when I was in a much more favourable state
Iof health, rejoiced in having an opportunity of opening my

mind at length on a subject so interesting to Christians of all

denominations, as the extensive circulation of the Bible by

such a society as the British and Foreign Bible Society.

    " My Lord, after more than forty years' residence in this

University, and, of course, after having attended a variety of

public meetings, I can honestly declare, that there is
INO ONE ON WHICH REFLECT WITH SO MUCH SINCERE AND

SOLID SATISFACTION, AS ON THAT MEETING WHICH TOOK

PLACE IN THIS ROOM LAST DECEMBER, AND WHICH IS THE

OBJECT OF OUR COMMEMORATION THIS DAY.

    " Having, on that occasion, entered so fully into the subject,

I trust it will now be considered quite unnecessary for me to

introduce any defence or detail of the excellencies of that Bible

Society   which we are pledged to support.     the  love  and  admira
          is an institution which calls forth
    " It

tion of all persons who have duly weighed its natural tendencies,
the means which it employs, and the blessed effects which it i

calculated to produce.
       520 CHAP XXIV. A.D. 1812. ^TAT. 62.

       "There however, no denying, that has met with some
         ;

             is,
                       is

                                                     it
       difficulties there no denying, that in the general harmony a

       few discordant notes have been heard. Nevertheless, they are

       now almost silent, and the difficulties and obstacles are all either

       actually surmounted, or nearly so.            therefore affirm, without
                it, ;

                      I
                             I

                                         it is
       fear of contradiction, that this Society in the full march of

       success and prosperity and conceive to be impossible but

       that the members of who assemble this day at Cambridge,

       should, most heartily, congratulate each other, that this Auxiliary
       Society was formed last year, and has been attended with such

bene"fiWciailthcorensspeeqcutentcoesi.ts formation,  it      well known, that some

                                                         is

       of its warmest advocates were not without fears, that the under

II     graduates of our University, who were peculiarly distinguished;
      Ifor their zeal and activity in the good cause, might, with the
       purest intentions, be led to take some steps inconsistent withI
       their academical rank and situation. And several now present
       will not have forgotten that, in consequence of such apprehen
       sions, myself expressed, at the last meeting, the doubts which

          had entertained concerning the propriety of my personal
       attendance on that occasion, lest my presence should be
       exposed to peculiar misrepresentations especially as, in conse
       quence of some extraordinary circumstances, might probably
       be the only Head of college who would appear publicly at the
            Ia
       meeting.                                be very true, that the prudent

           " Now, my Lord, though
                                   a
       and tractable deportment of those ingenuous youths will be, toit it
                                             is
       my mind, as long as live, matter of grateful recollection, do
                                                                I

       not refer again to their conduct at this time merely on its own

       account. No -- for, my Lord,              with infinite satisfaction, that

       now feel myself at full liberty to avow my unfeigned senti

       ments on this subject, in tone abundantly more strong and

       explicit than before.

           " In effect, know not whether, exclusively of the exertions
         I

       of the younger part of this University, there would, at this

       moment, have existed any Auxiliary Bible Society at Cam

       bridge: but leaving that consideration as a matter of pure

       speculation, the thing, my Lord, which peculiarly warms my
           CITAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. JETAT. C2.                               521

heart with delightful sensations  is is,  to contemplate that harvest

of Christian knowledge which fast ripening, from the united
efforts of good men of all denominations, for the dispersion of
the Bible, and particularly from the efforts of those pious
undergraduates who sowed the first seeds of this very Auxiliary

Institution. The sound of their praises has gone forth into

numerous towns and districts, and has animated many other

excellent young persons with a similar ardent zeal for the dis

semination of the Holy Scriptures; and conceive                             to be
                                                  is I
impossible, that pious persons, now pretty far advanced in life,:
                                                            '
should not derive solid consolation from the reflection, that,       is it

when they themselves shall be no more, they will have left

many in the vigour of life who will be active in spreading the
Word of God.

    "My Lord, will not sit down without mentioning the
           I

sentiments delivered by an excellent youth who, not a very

long time ago, was resident in this University, who known

to most of us as eminent both in mathematical and classical

learning, and to whom, from the late admirable specimen of

ability exhibited by him in the House of Commons, the country

looks  up  with theit  most  sanguine expectations.  Auxiliary              Bible
       My  Lord,       was   at the formation of an
    "                is

a'Society (in August last) for Clapham and its vicinity, that Mr.a is
  Charles Grant* spoke to the following effect -- Sir,' said he,

   the Bible Society an institution, the formation of which will

  make an Eera in the British history. It an institution by

  which this nation has, in fact, pledged itself to the truth of

  Christianity. It           grand, national, confession of faith. It       is

    solemn recognition, on the part of the people of Great Britain,

  that they know the value of the privileges which they inherit as

  Christians, and the value, also, of the great charter by which
  those privileges are to be maintained. We are, therefore, now
  pledged to the Gospel of Christ -- we are committed to that

  sacred cause.'                          I       reflect how the holy

      " My Lord Francis Osborne -- when

  flame for spreading the Scriptures of truth and life, was kindled

                             * Now Lord Glenelg.
               CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. jETAT. 62.

in the hearts of the zealous youths of this place ; how astonish

ingly it has increased and burst forth, in the space of this one

year ; and how it has carried along with it so many hands and

hearts of the rising generation, though at considerable distances

Ifrom each other, am inclined to exclaim, ' Who shall forbid

me to rejoice with exceeding joy ?' These events bring to my

mind the trying alternative proposed to the Israelites, by good
Joshua of old : ' Choose ye, this day, whom ye will serve nor

Ican entertain a doubt respecting the answer which would be

given, to such a question, by those younger friends of this cause,

who, with such an unparalleled mixture of zeal and prudence,
Ihave stood forward as its supporters.
                                        hesitate not to believe,
                                                                          ' Whatever others
that  wtehewyillwhoeunldce, foarsthwitshervoenethveoiLcoe,rdd.e' c"lare,
do,

    It is quite needless to observe, that the above address was
no laboured composition. It came warm from the heart of the

speaker, and, consequently, went directly to the hearts of all

who heard it.

     Dr. Milner thus wrote to a friend, a day or two after the
meeting :--

      " I hurried down from London, before my time, to be
Ipresent at the meeting of our Bible Society.
                                                                          did not get home

till late the night before ; and the next morning was afflicted

with a most severe head-ache; and could hardly get to the

Town Hall: however I made the best of it; and, perhaps, I
Ishould not have said a great deal more, had been ever so well."

     Dr. Milner, at this period, carried on a correspondence with
the Rev. Daniel Wilson*, concerning the affairs and proceedings
of the Bartlett's Buildings' Society. Some parts of this corre
spondence would, doubtless, be read with much interest, but

delicacy towards living persons forbids their publication.
     The following passage contained in a letter, dated December

25th, 1812, is interesting both in itself, and as making, what
very rarely occurs in Dr. Milner's letters, some slight allusion

to his own early proficiency in learning :--

               * The present Bishop of Calcutta.:
CHAP. XXIV. A.D. 1812. 62.' 523

I"After leaving business,        fell hard to work for several
years --and then came to College, a tolerably good classic, and

acquainted with six books of Euclid.

    " Now, I'll tell you, at once, what is meant by a pretty good
classic. You should be able to construe the Greek Testament,

any where, at sight, and to parse any verb. You should, also,

be able to read any easy prose Greek author, as Xenophon,
ILucian, Herodotus -- and also, Homer.
Ithenes ; though had read Demosthenes.  will not say Demos

     "Then, all the usual common Latin school-books; you
should be able to read at sight --Virgil--Horace -- Csesar's Com
mentaries -- Tully's Orations.

    " Lastly, you should be able to write pretty correctly Latin

prose, and a Greek play or two should be added. Now, this is

the least that can be allowed to make a decent classical scholar :

and, if a man be not so far a proficient, he goes to College for

little but to spend his money."

     The mention of parsing, in the above passage, recalls to my
recollection a remark which Dr. Milner sometimes made. He
used to observe, that many of the elegant scholars whom he
knew, had not their "grammar at their fingers' ends" as they
ought to have ; and he added, that he himself had, throughout
his academical life, felt in that particular, the advantage of
having been usher in a school. The rules of grammar, both
Latin and Greek, had been thus indelibly stamped upon his

memory.

   I remember, on more than one occasion, his playfully taking

up Ward's Latin Grammar, (an old-fashioned little book with a
frontispiece, representing an unhappy-looking child, painfully
climbing the tree of knowledge,) for the purpose of examining
Dr. Jowett --a man eminent in the University for the elegance
of his Latin compositions --and triumphing much, when, as was
not unfrequently the case, the Doctor exhibited a momentary

hesitation.
                             524

CHAPTER XXV.

Examination for Smith's Prize. -- Eecollections of Dean Milner by Sir John
Herschel, the Dean of Ely, and Lord Teignmouth. --Catholic Question. --
Letter to the Bishop of Meath. -- Publication of Strictures on the Writings
of Dr. Marsh. --Letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury on the subject of
the Bible Society.-- Alleged neutrality of the Archbishop. -- Management
of National Schools. -- Interests of the Established Church. -- Importance
of the Bible Society. --Objects of the Strictures. --Extracts. --History.--
Natural Philosophy. --Doctrine of Probabilities. -- Study of Divinity. --
Value and use of the Prayer Book. -- Sentiments on Predestination. --
Conclusion.--Review of Strictures in the Christian Observer. -- Corre
                             N. Vansittart. --National
spondence. -- Right Hon.                                Schools. -- Recollec
tions of a Visit to Queen's  Lodge, by the Right Hon.
                                                        T. B. Macaulay. --
Correspondence. -- Bishop of Carlisle. -- Bishop of Durham. -- Opinions of
Friends concerning the Strictures. --Affairs of East India College. --Ex
--tracts from Letters Z. Macaulay, Esq. --Lady Olivia Sparrow. -- Hannah
More. --Point of Similarity between the Characters of Dr. Milner and Dr.
Johnson. -- Busy Chapter. --Lawsuit. -- Sunday Consultations. -- Assize Ser
mon at Carlisle.-- Sir E. Alderson. -- Alteration in the Conduct of the
Assizes introduced by Dean Milner. --His Opinion concerning the Manage
ment of the Diocesan School.--Religious Correspondence. -- Labours in
the Pulpit. -- Indisposition. --Modes of taking Exercise. --Establishment of
the Carlisle Auxiliary Bible Society.--Conduct of Dean Milner. -- Letters.
-- Duke of Norfolk. -- Lord Morpeth. -- Meeting. --The Dean's Speech. --
Correspondence respecting the Bible Society.-- Dislike of Fruitless Dispu
tation. -- Increasing attachment to the Bible Society. -- Return to Cam
bridge. -- Indifferent Health. -- Mental Energy. --Attendance on Professor

Tennant's Lectures. --The Rev. W. Whewell. -- Galvanic Battery. -- Death
of Dr. Jowett. --Second Anniversary of the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible
Society.--Memoir of Dr. Jowett. --Letter to the Chairman of the Cam
bridge Bible Society Meeting. --Euler's Works. -- Inscription to the Me
mory of Dr. Jowett. --National Schools. --Letter to the Bishop of Norwich.

--Visit to Kensington Gore.

A.D. 1813. JEtKT. 63.

The first and second wranglers, in the year 1813, were Sir John
Herschel, and the present Dean of Ely, both of whom have
favoured me with some recollections of Dr. Milner's examina
tion of them for Smith's Prize. Sir John Herschel thus jocu
larly writes :--

   I" To say the truth, was, on the occasion to which you

allude*, far too much frightened at first, and when more at ease,

* The Examination for Smith's Prize.
            CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JfcTAT. 63.     525

much too intent upon the questions set by your late respected
Iuncle (which, however,
                         well recollect to have been very

crabbed ones), to have carried away with me but the one senti

ment of having got over, for better or for worse, a most awful

I Iday : and may say, what few, believe, who had the happi
Iness of ever being in Dr. Milner's company, could do, that

was right glad to be out of it."

The Dean of Ely, to a more particular account of the same

examination, adds some general observations on the conversa

tional talents of Dr. Milner, which, coming from such a quarter,
will be read with much interest :--
    " At the Smith's Prize Examination,"  writes  the Dean, " Dr.

Milner gave Herschel and myself, questions partly vivd voce, and

partly upon paper. Many of the questions related to practical

Imechanics, and were such as could not answer. He gave us

an intricate question (a cubic equation with possible roots) to
solve by means of a table of logarithms; in which we both

failed in obtaining a correct answer; a circumstance which made

him, very good-naturedly, chuckle and triumph, telling us, that

we had not fared worse than our predecessors in a similar trial.

Many of his questions were introductory to very amusing

Iremarks and anecdotes; and was as much interested and

pleased with the whole work of the day, as a person under

examination could well be.

   " I have on other occasions had the pleasure of Dr. Milner's

company when he was in exuberant spirits. His conversation

was remarkable on such occasions for its rich humour, and,

whenever the occasion demanded, for observations which indi

cated a mind of extraordinary vigour and comprehensiveness,

to which every department of knowledge seemed to be sub

servient."

    The above account of Dr. Milner's style of examination for
Smith's Prize, tallies remarkably with that given by Sir E.

Alderson of the same transaction, in the year 1809, as well as

with some later accounts, which will appear under their proper

dates.

The awe with which Dr. Milner inspired young men of

ingenuous and amiable character, and which probably had its
526          CHAI>. XXV. A.D. 1813. JET AT. 63.

origin in the splendour of his reputation and the dignity of his

appearance and address, invariably melted away under the

influence of the benignity and cheerfulness of his manners and

deportment, and gave place to respectful admiration or grateful

affection. The present Lord Teignmouth thus speaks, in a
letter to myself, of his first introduction to him :--

   I" have a vivid recollection of your eminent relative, Dean
IMilner.
             might perhaps mention, that having been intro
Iduced to him, as you remember, by my father, made a point

of calling on him whilst an undergraduate at Cambridge. In

Imy visits, was accompanied by a friend, who had been also

introduced to him, and we made them in company, partly
because we felt some degree of awe of one so powerfully
gifted. But a few minutes' interview with him at once
relieved us from all embarrassment; for he adapted himself

to his youthful visitors, and delighted us with his conver
sation. You doubtless remember a speech which he delivered

at the Cambridge Bible Society, and which produced so great

an effect.

   " I recollect once calling upon the Dean, after taking my

degree, and enjoying for an hour a most instructive conversation

on the subject of the Reformation."
     Dr. Milner took great interest in the success of the Mora

vian Missions, and subscribed very liberally towards their

support. In a letter to Mr. Latrobe, dated " Queen's Lodge,

27th January, 1813," he writes, with a touch of his consti

tutional merriment, --
    " Dr. Jowett and myself both agree, that we will not send

you any more money for your missions, if you will not come

and see us.                                      I. Milner."

             "Always yours,

    In the spring of the year 1813, the thoughts of all serious

persons were very much turned towards the question of Catholic
Emancipation. This important subject had of late years fre
quently and closely occupied Dean Milner's mind, and particular
circumstances about this period had especially led him to the

consideration of it. He had just been gratified by a brief visit
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                    527

from Mr. Wilberforce, who, as he writes in his diary, was at

that time "very doubtful which way was right*." The con
versation between these attached friends consisted much of

discussions on this engrossing topic ; the Dean being, from first
to last, decidedly opposed to the conceding of the claims of the

Roman Catholics, while his friend at length came to the

determination to "separate from" him "and all" his other
" religious friends f."

     The following letter displays the genuine earnestness with
which he devoted himself to the task of mastering this impor
tant question :--

"To the Lord Bishop of Meath.

"My dear Bishop,                       " Queen's College Lodge,

    " My apology for this intrusion          February 9, 1813.
                                     on your Lordship's time

and patience, must be the very kind manner in which you
have communicated with me both by letter and conversa

tion.
     " The subject of this letter is, what is called, the Catholic

Question.

    " A very indifferent state of health, and many domestic and

academical avocations, have prevented me from attending so

closely to this most important inquiry as I could have wished ;

but the present alarming crisis has excited my feelings to a very

great degree ; and your Lordship's letter to Mr. C  has

Icontributed to this effect more than all that ever heard or

read before.

    " My friend, Mr. Wilberforce, was here the other day, and

announced the merits of this performance of your Lordship in

Isuch extraordinarily strong terms, that instantly sent for it.

I read it over this morning for the first time, and again this
Iafternoon, and find it impossible to describe how, together

with the instruction which it has poured into my mind, it has

roused my zeal, and begotten a most earnest desire to bottom

· See Lif of Wilberforce, chap. xxviii.  t Ibid.
'528  C&AP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jfeTAT. 63.

the subject. You have crowded into a small compass the pith

of the question, and have, at the same time, in my opinion,

been most successful in the perspicuity of your expression, and

the arrangement of your materials. In one word, although

you have made me see the danger, you have, in a good measure,

relieved my anxiety. All who are not incurably prejudiced
must be convinced, and I shall be most strangely disappointed
if this letter of your Lordship do not slay its thousands and

tens of thousands.

    " In the intention of making myself thoroughly acquainted

with the subject of Catholic Emancipation, I began some years

ago to collect publications as they occurred, and my deceased

friend, the Bishop of Elphin, gave me some pamphlets, and

directed my attention most particularly to two or three publica

tions of your Lordship. I sent also for some of the later ones ;

but severe indisposition put a stop to all my exertions, and

Idelayed^ the prosecution of almost every object which have

had in contemplation.

    " To take up no more of your Lordship's time with pream

Ible, will now briefly state my request, viz., that you would

have the goodness to point out to me the books and pamphlets

which you judge best calculated to furnish the most substantial

information on the subject; and that I may save your Lordship
I Iall the trouble possibly can, will put down on the next page

the pamphlets already in my possession, and also mention some
      I have heard a good account     * * * *.
                                    perceive how ardently
      all this, your Lordship will
Iof w"hiIcnh

wish to become complete master of the invaluable documents

contained, or referred to, in your truly admirable letter, which
Iis indeed ipsa agmen.
                        certainly was not aware, at first, that

this wish of mine would have carried me to such an unwarrant

      I
                                    a
                                          is,

                                                        I
able length. My hope now  that your Lordship will easily

show me, that perhaps great number of my questions are

actually answered in the documents already in my possession,

but which have not yet been able to read, and that you will

point out to me, as easily, the other documents where am to

find the rest.

    " When your Lordship shall have made me better qualified
   CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. ^ETAT. 03.                       529*

than I am at present, I trust I may be able to do some good

among my numerous academical acquaintances.
            " I remain, my
"  Your                       dear  Bishop,   servant,
         Lordship's faithful  and   obedient
                                    " Isaac Milner."

     The desire expressed by Dr. Milner in the above charac

teristic letter, to see the original documents referred to in the
publication of the Bishop of Meath, may serve as a sample of
his constant anxiety, while writing his Church History, to
examine for himself the original sources of information.

     Dean Milner's answer to the Inquiry of Dr. Marsh -- the
work of the autumn of the preceding year-- was now published.

It cannot be better introduced to the notice of the reader of

these pages, than by the following truly excellent letter to --

"His Grace the Archbishop op Canterbury.

"My Lord Archbishop,          " Queen's College Lodge,

                                 6th February, 1813.
I"The reluctance with which am induced to take this

liberty is overcome by the full persuasion, that your Grace is

always disposed to give a favorable attention to every sugges

tion which has for its object the furtherance of the Christian

Religion, and the support of the Established Church.

    "The subject concerning which I presume to intrude upon

your Grace's attention, a few observations, is the British and

Foreign Bible Society, of which I have been, for some years, a

member.                                                   excluded

    " In what respects myself, the case is briefly this.
    " Many years of infirmity and incapacity, almost

me from a knowledge of what was passing in the busy world.

Among other things, I remained entirely unacquainted with the

particulars relative to the Society of Bartlett's Buildings ; and
it was almost by accident, that, hearing of the British and

Foreign Bible Society, at a moment when my health wasit,

beginning to improve, I became a member of without having2

the slightest suspicion, that there either was, or could be, any
contention about the dispersing of the Holy Scriptures.

                                               M
530 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

   " From the instant that I heard of a difference of sentiment
Itending to a formation of parties, wished to become a member

of the Ancient Society, but having been informed, that some

very extraordinary rejections of candidates had taken place,

Iand, in one instance where was morally certain, that there
Icould be no just exception, I felt that sort of dislike which,

suppose, every man feels, to run the hazard of being publicly
rejected, in such circumstances. Still my desire continued

strong to become a member of the Old Society, that I might

avoid the evil of misrepresentation.

    " The Archbishop of York, to whom I mentioned my situa

tion, and who was kind enough to further my wishes, will

confirm this account.

   "I was chosen a member of the Society for Promoting

Christian Knowledge,  remember right, Dr. Marsh himself
                      a (iIf
signed my certificate,) and remained perfectly quiet member
of both the societies, till Dr. Marsh was pleased, in Decembera

                                  I
                                                      a
1811, to represent, in printed address to our Senate, the

Church members of the modern society as neglecting the

Prayer Book, and as encouraging society that might contribute

to the downfall of the Established Church.               ;    number
                                                           a
    " This very uncandid attack (as thought it) on

of churchmen who are as sound members of the establishment

as Dr. Marsh can wish them to be, induced me, at the public

meeting for the formation of an Auxiliary Society at Cambridge,

to say few words, in reply to this misrepresentation and soon

after that meeting, appeared, in print, Dr. Marsh's Inquiry, &c,

&c, in which consider myself, among many others, grievously
a

      I

misrepresented.

    "Your Grace will perceive how little any personal con

siderations have weighed with me as have now waited above     a
a

                 I
                         I
year, in the hope, that animosities would cease, and that there
would be returning good-humour, especially among church

men. The treatise which have ventured to direct my book

seller to leave at your Grace's palace, will make your Grace

acquainted with my reasons for taking up my pen, on this im

portant occasion.  I  have been advised to dedicate my book to

our two Archbishops and to the Bishops in general; but        I
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. >ETAT. 63.                        531

have been deterred from that step by the consideration, that
it would be much more respectful to your Grace, as well

as to the Archbishop of York, and to the Bishops, to com

Imunicate, in this private manner, the little have to add,

than to place it in the front of a treatise of so controversial

a nature.

    " In my strictures on Dr. Marsh's writings, it has been my

intention to answer everything that can pretend to the shape of

an argument; and, in the numerous places where he appears to

rest upon his own authority, I have endeavoured to show, that

that"aIupthaortriictyulaisrlymurechqueosvtery-roauterd.Grace's attention to the follow

ing facts and observations.it,

    "1. It is a fact, that the Bible Society, notwithstanding thea

opposition made to has very much increased, and particularly,
from the time that the opposition became violent.

    "2. It is, however, also fact, that many of the clergy,

especially those of the Diocese of London, continue unfriendly
to the institution.

    " In making my remarks on the rulers of the Church,

would be understood to speak with all possible respect but,
                                             it

                                                       I
                                                                                :
                                                              I
after giving much attention to what has passed during the last

two or three years, find difficult not to conclude, that the
I

           is
            it

           I
supposition (much exaggerated doubt not) of the hostility of

the Bishop of London,  one principal cause of the above-

mentioned opposition.                        operates,  think,

    " In regard to your Grace's neutrality,

on men's minds in different ways, according to circumstances.

Some, who are prejudiced against the Bible Society, either ab

initio, or through the representations of its adversaries, or

through the influence of authority, or example, are disposed to

infer from your Grace's neutrality, degree of latent hostility
it,

          a
                               a

                                           a
                                                                              2
                                                                                        2

                                                                                               a;
whilst others put very different construction upon it. The

more moderate, and by far the greater number of churchmen,

account for partly from principle of discretion, which has

led your Grace cautiously to watch the progress of so new

thing, and partly from the unfortunate circumstance of Dr.

Wordsworth's book being dated Lambeth Palace, which cir

                                             m
532 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

cumstance, they think, placed your Grace in a situation both of

difficulty and delicacy.

    "Still, however, they cannot comprehend why the Bible

Society should be opposed at all; and although they them

selves do not join the society, yet is their neutrality to be

ascribed rather to a dutiful respect towards some their superiors,

than to any conviction of the impropriety of the thing itself.

is my
Your
ISuch                  belief.
                            trust,
    "
       unfeigned                    give  me  full  credit  for having
       Grace will,

in this address, no other motive but a desire to conciliate the

clergy and other churchmen, who at present, seem ranged, as it

were, in opposition to each other. That the clergy of the Esta

blished Church should have a difference about the dispersion

                       in itself, great evil; and am con
isof the Scriptures,

   if it

                    is,

                  I
                                               a

                                      I
                                            I
vinced, that may be remedied by the rulers of the Church,

and by them only. Let them but devise some method to

heal and conciliate; and will answer for the happiest con

sequences.                                          think might be

   "It not for me to point out what

done; but your Grace, in your wisdom, should seriously

resolve to make the attempt, the means would soon suggest

themselves.

    " The public, my Lord Archbishop, consider your Grace as

extremely conciliatory in your disposition. Every one must
have observed, that the steps taken by your Grace, in the
business of Lord Sidmouth's motion, produced striking effect
of conciliation, on the minds of many thousands both of
churchmen and dissenters. And further, your Grace's expla
nation of the committee's resolution, relative to the national
I
                   I

                                               a

                                                  it

                                                                                     a

                                                                   if
schools, has also had  much greater effect in producing

harmony and good-will than many persons, probably, are aware
of. can speak to this positively. The effect, however, would
still be much greater, and would tend to make honest and

sincere churchmen of still more of the dissenters,                                      your

Grace's candid and moderate sentiments pervaded the minds of

all the directors of national schools throughout the kingdom.

But those sentiments,  fear, are, in many places, either not

known, or suppressed. To myself           has happened more than
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. /ETAT. 63.                                   533

Ionce to be told, that had certainly mistaken your Grace's

meaning on that subject*.

    "At our Cambridge school, which may be called an im

proved Lancastrian School, we have not a single dissenter, who

has stumbled at the Catechism; but we allow the children

of dissenters to go to their own place of worship, if their

parents desire, that they  may not go to  ours.   Bible  Society.
                           consideration  of the
    " But I return to the

"The annual reports demonstrate, that the Society                  is

increasing in number, wealth, and respectability, at a great

pace. Its friends and advocates make no accusations whatever
of others, except merely in self-defence -- they complain, indeed,

of the unchristian spirit of their adversaries, who would repre

sent them as unfaithful sons of the Church ; but they are them

selves perfectly quiet --they discover no spirit of rivalry or
contention -- they find no fault with any other institution, nor

reproach the members of any other Society.

    " This circumstance marks an essential distinction between

Ithe parties, and is, believe, a fact which the strictest inquiry

will confirm. Surely, my Lord Archbishop, this is a lamentable
state of things -- surely here is a distemper which calls for

remedies !

    " Your Grace's elevated situation prevents you, in some

cases, from obtaining that accurate knowledge of the state of

parties, which falls to the lot of many others.

    " As to myself, although all my own relatives and con

Inexions are warm advocates of the Established Church,

have, nevertheless, had great opportunities of knowing the

Isentiments of the dissenters; and have narrowly watched

their motions.

   I" Now there is nothing of which am more certain, than

that there exists, at this moment, a multitude of persons who,

so far as they belong to any religious community, belong to the

Establishment; but perhaps, they are not strongly attached

either to Church or Chapel, or to any religious denomination ;

nor do they well understand the points in which the difference

* See Chapter XXIV.
    534 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 11)13. JETAT. 63.

    consists. This multitude might, with no great effort, by proper
    nurture, and by some good-natured concessions to their igno
    rance or their prejudices, be moulded into steady and well-

    informed members of the Establishment ; but there is nothing

    more likely to prove injurious to such a measure, than a

    prevalent idea among them, that the clergy, in their hearts, are

    not sincerely attached to the Bible. It grieves every nerve of
    my heart to see this prejudice daily increasing. It has taken

    deep root, and it is fed by the opposition which has been made,

    and is daily making, to the Bible Society.

        " It is no satisfactory answer to say, that the suspicion

    is unreasonable; for it is the Christian's duty to avoid the

    ' appearance of evil/ If men disapprove of the dissemination

             a
                            is

                                                         a

                                              I

                                                                      is it,
    of the Bible on account of the circumstances which attend

    no reasonable person will require them to concur in the

    measure but still they might quietly suffer others to acta

    according to their judgment. It this breach of charity, upon;

    such subject, that induces the suspicion of dislike of the

    Bible.

        "The chief objects of my Strictures on the writings of
    Dr. Mars-h are, to show, that the principle of his opposition

    without foundation; and also, that his representations have

|y  increased and confirmed hurtful dissension among the friends

    of the Church. Numbers of the clergy who (as                       have

    observed) are fully persuaded of your Grace's conciliatory dis

    position, are therefore anxious, that some steps should be taken

    to put an end to every idea of opposition, or rivalry, or

    competition, between churchmen and churchmen between
             ;

                           it

                                                                    ;
    churchmen and dissenters and lastly, between the two great

    societies for the dispersing of Bibles. Whenever that shall
    happily take place, they think, that will not be long before

    those very societies will begin to act in concert with each other.

    They think, that such ample funds as those of the Bible Society

    must, in their operation, infallibly, although, perhaps, indirectly

    and accidentally, promote the general objects of the Bartlett's

    Buildings Society; and they are convinced, that your Grace has

    the power gradually to bring into practice such harmonious
             '

                                              aa
    system. They are ready to say, Only fix upon good point
        CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. C3.                    535

for the fulcrum, and His Grace of Canterbury possesses both

power   and lever  sufficient for  the good purpose.'  the  imputation
        trust, my                  run no hazard of
    "I             Lord, that I
Iof presumption, when
                       ask whether it tells well even at

present, or will tell well in the future ecclesiastical history of

this country, that the metropolitan of England and others of

the episcopal bench, had no concern in the direction of the

operations of a Bible Engine of such magnitude, and supported
by such a mass of property, and such a number of respectable

characters of all denominations.

   " To speak my mind fully, I cannot but view the prodigious

efforts that have been made, and are making, to circulate the

revealed Word of God, as a prominent feature of the present

time, and one which must strongly attract the notice of pos

terity : nor am I without some hope, that this unparalleled

dispersion of the Scriptures may even prove a prelude to some

great and extraordinary events in the designs of Providence.

Now such is my attachment to the Established Church, and

my regard for its credit, that in case of such a Divine dispen

Isation as is here alluded to, should be much concerned to find

the Church placed in the back ground.

    " On this head, many considerations will not fail to occur to

your Grace's mind.

   I" It is with the utmost sincerity, that have allowed, that it

does not become me to intrude upon your Grace any specific

plan of conciliation of my own devising ; yet to prevent being

Imisapprehended, may, perhaps, be allowed to suggest, that
a
                  a
                                                                                              is

                                                                                                          if,
through the discreet exercise of your Grace's wisdom and good

will towards the Church over which you preside, some measures

could be devised which might have the effect of introducing

Christian spirit of co-operation in so excellent a cause,

infinite good would be the certain consequence. There would

soon be practical combination of the operations of the two

societies, without either of them surrendering any one principle.

The Church of England would preserve its pre-eminence; and
your Grace's endeavours would be remembered with gratitude

in succeeding ages by all lovers of our Establishment.      sullied

    " Some say, that the brilliancy of the Bible Society
536 CliAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

by the opposition of the Church ; while others maintain, that

the splendour of the Church itself is suffering considerable

diminution, through its cold and defective co-operation in a
Icause so perfectly unexceptionable.
                                            will not pretend to settle,

amid such a contrariety of sentiments, precisely where the

Itruth lies ; but have no hesitation in affirming, that a union

and concurrence of the Church and the Bible Society, would

assuredly add fresh lustre to both.
" No person whatever knows or suspects this letter to be
                      If your Grace, in your candid con
in my contemplation.
Isideration, do but pardon the intrusion which have made, I

shall be perfectly content with the consciousness of having

discharged an important duty. If the representation which I

have made should induce your Grace to consider the subject as

Imeriting a serious review, shall be extremely gratified ; and if

such a review should lead to measures that may terminate the
Ipresent unhappy misunderstandings,
                                            shall rejoice with great
joy, and congratulate myself as long as I live; and lastly,

should a kind Providence so prolong my life, that in the sixth

Ivolume of the History of the Church of Christ, may have to

describe the diffusion of Bibles and Christian books throughout

the world, by the two great societies acting in harmony with

each other, the remembrance of having written this letter to
your Grace, will then, in my old age, give vigour to every stroke

of my pen.

    " It will not escape your Grace's observation, that opposi

tion to such a society, like every species of persecution, is sure

to defeat its own purpose. The Bible Society is not now to be

looked on as an infant society, scarcely having acquired the use

of its legs; but it is to be looked upon as making rapid progress

in full march, and with the strength of manhood. The good

effects of a speedy and cordial co-operation with it will be

incalculable.  In matters of this sort, there is generally a

critical interval and a critical moment --I hope they will not, in

Ithis instance, be suffered to   pass  by.  hearty  co-operation  of the
                                that   the
    " cannot but think,

bishops in Scotland, and still more, the late ukase of the

Emperor of Russia, are to be considered as very significant
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                       537

Imementos to the Church of England; nor can conclude

without observing, that if your Grace should be persuaded, that
it will become you to take advantage of the present circum
stances, to promote the cause of Christianity by the most
extensive dissemination of the Bible that has ever been known,
it will not escape your Grace's consideration, that the Arch

bishop of Canterbury is not an individual, but a host. Numbers
will almost instantly concur in favour of the measure, which
your Grace shall think proper to adopt; so that the question
on which your Grace has to decide, appears to be a question of

very great magnitude.

    " In my own opinion, the history of the Church scarcely

furnishes an object more magnificent in itself, or more
important in its consequences, and therefore more worthy of
the interference of the Archbishop of Canterbury, than the
tranquillizing of the Established Church, and the diverting of
the rich bounty of a well- disposed and religious people into the
most proper and most useful channels -- channels in which it
may flow in harmonious and peaceful streams.

     " I am, my Lord Archbishop,

             " Your Grace's faithful and obedient servant,

                                                    " Isaac Milner."

Of the book alluded to in the above admirable and warm

hearted letter, it is difficult, nay, impossible, to give anything

like an adequate idea without running into greater length than

would be proper on the present occasion. " We cannot," says
the reviewer of this book, in the Christian Observer, "trust

ourselves, without great caution, in the selection of extracts.

The danger would be, that we might transcribe a considerable

part of the volume."    The  objects of it   are thus  wseurcec, in"cttloy
stated in Dr. Milner's  own                   : they
                              advertisement

vindicate a large and respectable body of the clergy and other

churchmen from the groundless imputation of indifference to

the Liturgy; to remonstrate with Dr. Marsh upon the tendency

of his writings to check the distribution of the Scriptures, by

exciting jealousies and animosities among Christians; to expose

his misrepresentation of certain historical facts relative to the
538 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. ^TAT. 63.

time of Charles the First ; and to prove, from his fallacious and

illogical arguments upon a variety of interesting topics, how

little he is entitled to the confidence of his readers on the

subject of the Bible Society."

Those who are acquainted with Dr. Mimer's habits of close

reasoning and accurate expression, will be disposed to believe,

that the objects, which he thus proposed to himself, are fully

attained. In a slight biographical notice of him, which appeared

in a periodical publication soon after his death, these Stric

ture are mentioned as "a very masterly and able work,

displaying an amazing power of argument." Such a power

they, doubtless, do abundantly display : they likewise display

an accurate and comprehensive knowledge of modern eccle

siastical history, especially of that which relates to the

Reformed Church of England ; and they abound in the most

cogent arguments in defence of the Bible Society. Still, being

mixed up as they are, and as, from their very nature, it was ob

vious that they must be, with animadversions upon publications

never of popular interest, and now almost forgotten, they are

less known and read than many other works of less intrinsic

and enduring excellence.

    A few very brief extracts from a work of great merit, now

rarely met with, and having reference to a subject still much

agitated, will not be deemed out of place in this Memoir of

Dr. Milner's life and writings.

The Introduction is highly characteristic.

" To try one's strength," says Dr. Milner, " fairly and in

good-humour, with an ingenious disputant on a deserving

subject, may certainly prove both an interesting and a useful

exercise of the faculties ; but for this purpose it is requisite
that there should be a tangible solidity -- a substance that does

not "elIundemtyhehgeraarstp.I  No man can grapple with a shadow."
                               love a good argument. Let Dr. Marsh
produce one, and I will be among the first to show my sensi
Ibility to its weight.
                               also love to see a man warm and zealous

in a cause which he believes to be important; but we are

never to forget that zeal and warmth, however intense, afford

no proof of soundness and solidity."
                  CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. /ETAT. 63.                                                539

    " The real question -- that question which is the only object
of rational inquiry -- whether churchman, who belongs to
                  a                                                                if

                           a is,                                                                    a

                                    a

                                          it a

                                       I
                                                                                ?
society which distributes Bibles alone, be likely to be as

zealously attached to the Prayer Book of his own Church, and

as active in the distribution of among the poor, as he had

never   belonged   to such Bible Society                                         would, however,  by no
                  stating the question,
    "  In thus

means be understood to admit, that there can be so much as

the shadow of reasonable doubt respecting it.                                              can never
                                                                                   is
admit, that because churchman has begun to promote the
                                                                                       II
distribution of Bibles, "he will, therefore, probably have less

affection for his Prayer Book than he had before.                                          can never

admit, that this activity in dispersing the Holy Scriptures will,

in any degree, weaken single article of his faith, or lessen his
                      a

                                  :
regard for that pure reformed religion which                                       so well deli

neated in the Prayer Book or that    it                                            will either cramp the

exercise of his benevolence in giving the Prayer Book to others,

or indispose him to the use, in his own devotions, of the admi

rable prayers which contains."

    " Never in his whole life, Dr. Marsh tells us, did he under
                  a

                    it

                            I
take to write on subject which he found so intricate and

perplexed as the present.            verily believe he found so he
                                                                                           it

                                                                                                     ;

had the hardest task in the world to execute. He had to make

out, that the liberal distribution of the genuine Bible alone, by

a  Society of Christians of various denominations, was mis

chievous in the extreme, and might ultimately tend even to the

dissolution of the Established Church.

                       " Difficile est satiram non scribere."

   " 1. From Dr. Marsh's Address to the Senate of the Uni

versity of Cambridge              appears, that he does not consider the
a

           I

                           it
                              it
British and Foreign Bible Society as meriting the character of

   Church of England Society. On the contrary, he thinks                                                it

an institution fraught with danger to our Establishment.

    " Now, find impossible to treat this sentiment with any

considerable attention, so long as am persuaded, that the
                                     I
most extensive and indiscriminate perusal of the Bible, far from
                                         a
weakening, will infallibly strengthen true scriptural church,

such as believe the Church of England to be.
       I
540 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.

" 2. But it is our uniting with dissenters in this, otherwise,

excellent work, that the danger is said to consist.

   I" Still am utterly unable to discover, in the simple disper

sion of the sacred volume, any just ground of alarm. In the
Imost extensive distribution of the Bible
                                                                          neither see an

increase of the political importance of dissenters, nor any
prospect of the ruin of our Establishment.

    " 3. We are further to believe, that the Bible Society will

generate in the minds of the churchmen who belong to dis
                                                                                         it,

                                                                                                "
affection to their Prayer Book.

    " This appears to me both an unwarrantable and an invi-

dious  prognostic."   Tully, that                               truth  itself may  sometimes  be
         allow, with
    "
'

     I

                                                             a
polished and rendered brighter, by the file of disputation                                    ;

Veritas ipsa, limatur in disputatione.' But then the discus

sion must be conducted in                                       manner not to conceal and

confuse, but to elicit and illustrate the truth.                                              the
                                                                                              we
    "Now when Dr. Marsh accuses us of endangering

Church by associating with dissenters, we reply, that

associate with them only where we agree; and that we agree
in the most unexceptionable of all objects, the dispersion of the

Bible.

    " Besides, we affirm, that the association of Christians, in

things confessedly good, has tendency to promote Christian
                             a

charity.              is,

    " But then, the dissenters may hereafter injure the Church.I       a
    " Here our reply there are few things that may not happen.
For example, never expected to hear divine of the ChurchI
                          a
of England object to society that distributed no other book
but the Bible. But deny, that the members of the Church

will be less watchful and active in defending themselves against
attacks, than the dissenters in contriving and prosecuting

them."                       and communication                                     have    been
                                                                                             but
   "A friendly intercourse

found to lessen that spirit of jealousy and distrust, which                              is

too often increased and exasperated by what passes at select and
exclusive assemblies. Moderate persons of all persuasions,

after having been present at mixed meetings of good men, where
              CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.          541

general objects of Christian practice had been treated with

candour and piety, and all delicate points, tending to distrust

and separation, avoided, have been known to express surprise

at the display of so much good-temper and charity, in instances
where they had expected little but selfishness, suspicion, and

irritation."

That portion of Dr. Milner's Strictures which has refe

rence to the history of the Puritans, and to the circumstances

which led to the establishment of the Scotch Solemn League

and Covenant, consists so much of accurate historical narration,

and of close and connected reasoning, that it is scarcely possible
to detach from it any particular passages without injury to their

effect. Those persons who are curious respecting this very

interesting period of history, may peruse this part of Dr. Milner's

volume, with pleasure and advantage. The misrepresentations

of Dr. Marsh, concerning Popery and Calvinism, are ably

exposed.

     With regard to Dr. Marsh's representation of the same
period of history, Dr. Milner thus writes :--

    " A writer, in expressing his own opinions, be they ever so

extraordinary, is not half so dangerous, as when he brings for

ward portions of history in such a way as to mislead his reader,
either by the narrative itself, or by the colouring in which it is

exhibited. It is not every one that has leisure or opportunity

to examine into the truth."             is  headed,     " Protes
     That part of the Strictures which

tantism represented as of many sorts," proves alike the

liberality of the writer's sentiments, and his genuine attachment
to the doctrines and discipline of the Church of England ; but

the very excellence of this portion of the work renders it

              it,
difficult to quote from with advantage, any detached passages.

The following brief extract will, however, be read with

interest, and may be worthy of the attention [of some of the

opponents of the Bible Society,    at the present day.  confessions

    " It was," writes Dr. Milner,  " neither the Saxon

of faith, nor the Saxon liturgies, which shook the pillars of

Papal domination in Germany. It was the translation

AND DISPERSION OF THE BiBLE BY LUTHEr.'.'
 542 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.

      " On the whole, although the members of the Bible Society

  may be invidiously represented as soaring into the regions of

 Ihigh Protestantism, till they forget the Church of England,

 shall continue to regard the expression ' different sorts of Pro
 testantism', as a dangerous and unwarrantable way of speaking.
 Our Roman Catholic adversaries delight in representations of
 this kind, and, with a triumphant tone of superiority, contrast

 the numerous variations among Protestants, with the simplicity
 and harmony of their own church.

     "Now the reply of a true Protestant consists in denying,

 that such trivial distinctions as bowing, or not bowing, kneeling,
 or not kneeling, and the like, in the several parts of the public
 service, constitute different sorts of Protestantism. The funda

 mental principle of all the orthodox Protestant churches is, to
 renounce the errors of the Church of Rome, and to adhere to

 those grand articles of Christian faith which, in the primitive
 ages of the church, were constantly held to be the essential
 doctrines of the Gospel."

      That part of Dr. Milner's work, which treats of the error of
 Dr. Marsh's hypothesis concerning the inspiration of the
 Gospels, is a piece of writing highly characteristic of its author,
and one which, while it sets forth the fundamental principle,

" the bright and elevated beacon of all sound and experi

mental philosophy," is yet, perfectly intelligible to the
unlearned reader. To be appreciated, however, it must be

read entire. From the next part, entitled "A law of nature,"

some striking, and generally instructive passages may, properly,
be extracted.

     " Lecturers in natural philosophy, should ever be careful to

impress upon the minds of their pupils, just notions of the
meaning of laws of nature, and of the methods of arriving at a
knowledge of them. A. law of nature cannot always be clearly
inferred from simple, easy experiments ; nor, on the other hand,

is it ever to be considered as merely a deduction of reason. It

must be proved, either at once and directly, by some simple and

decisive experiments; or, if that cannot be done, by such expe

riments as enable us to collect its existence by the assistance of

geometry.
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                                 543

    " Many years ago, both in my public and private lectures,

Iand especially in those on chymistry and natural philosophy,

constantly laboured to impress on the minds of my pupils, true
and distinct notions concerning the laws of nature and hypo

Itheses. In so doing, conceived myself to be attending to a

very important part of a judicious education. In natural philo

Isophy, had Sir Isaac Newton and his disciples for sure guides ;
and in chymistry, I reckoned myself peculiarly fortunate in

having obtained an excellent MS. of the Lectures of the late
Dr. Black; to whom, as my preceptor in that branch of know

Iledge, ever looked up with admiration and reverence -- though
I am well-known to have always controverted his favourite

******explanation of the doctrine of latent heat."
    " My numerous pupils will remember, that when the late

revolution in the science of chymistry took place, I used

to address them on the nature of a discreet analysis and

Iinduction in chymical inquiries; and will not be displeased

if transcribe on this occasion, the fine instructive passage
in which Dr. Black delivered his sentiments on these same

subjects.

    "Dr. Robison was telling Dr. Black, how highly he was

pleased with Lavoisier's scientific arrangement of chymical

objects, on account of that happy train of synthetic deduction

which it enabled its author to carry through the whole of the

chymical history of bodies.

    "'This,' said Dr. Black, 'is the very thing I dislike it for.

Chymistry is not yet a science. We are very far from the know

ledge of its first principles. We should avoid everything that

has the pretensions of a full system. The whole of chymical

science should, as yet, be analytical, like Newton's optics ; and

we should obtain the connecting principle in the form of a

general law, at the very end of our induction, as the reward of

our labour*. There is just now a rage for system : we have got

such a high conceit of our knowledge, that we cannot be pleased
                                                    It must
with a system which acknowledges any imperfection.

* The passage quoted by Dr. Milner from Dr. Black, is here much
                                                   abridged.
544 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETXT. 63.

not have one open link ; it must not leave anything unexplained.

IAnd see it always happen, that, if the application of a system

to the explanation of the phenomena be very comprehensive,
leaving no blanks; and if the explanation have some feasibility;

this catches the fancy ; it dazzles the understanding. Nay, we

think it impossible, that a principle that is false, can tally with
so many phenomena. This seeming coincidence is considered

as a proof of its validity, and we are no longer solicitous
Iabout the direct proofs adduced in the beginning.
                                                    have often

Iheard such arguments for what knew to be great nonsense.

This kind of authority, accruing to a theory from its spe

cious and extensive application to phenomena, is always bad ;

and, with mere beginners in philosophy, it is doing them

an irreparable mischief. It nourishes the itch for theory;

and it makes them unsolicitous about the first foundations of

it. Thus it forms in their minds the worst of all philosophical

habits.'"

     The science of chymistry is much advanced since the time
of Dr. Black; but the principle laid down in the above very

instructive passage, must for ever retain its value.
     With reference to the foregoing "reflections of the very

sound and sagacious philosopher of Edinburgh," Dr. Milner
thus writes :--

   "I have been induced to give the admirable extract from

IDr. Black, so much at length, because do not remember

any book in which the same great truths are stated so fully and

forcibly, and also, because I am convinced, from Dr. Marsh's

manner of reasoning  in several instances, that  the doctrines
which it inculcates  need to be enforced on      men's minds
                     had conceived could be      necessary, at
much more than I

least among such as have had the advantage of an academical

education.

     " Further: whoever reflects on the wisdom contained in the

observations of Dr. Black, as also on the analogy between

the study of experimental philosophy and the study of the
evidences of Revelation, must be convinced of the bad effect

which the recommendation and study of such a mere hypothesis

will probably produce on the minds of serious and well-disposed
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.  545

young students of divinity. It tends to corrupt their taste for

sound reasoning, and makes them less solicitous to understand

and remember the well-tried, established arguments for the
authority of the sacred writings ; it disposes them to allow too
great weight to minute and trivial objections and difficulties ;

and, lastly, when an improved judgment and discretion have
laid open the vanity and fallaciousness of novel systems of
Scriptural evidence, the mind is in danger of being disgusted
and disappointed, and, perhaps, but little inclined to resume
the same kind of study in a more slow, sober, and patient
method of investigation."

     Appended to the above passage there is a note, which well

Idese"rveshaaveplaocfetenherceo.ntended," writes Dr. Milner, " that the

best answer we could give to persons, who sometimes accuse
the resident members of the University of Cambridge of em
ploying their time too much in mathematics and natural philo
sophy, was to inform them, that our lectures on these subjects
were, indirectly at least, subservient to the cause of religion;
for that we endeavoured, not only to fix in the minds of young
students the most important truths, but also to habituate them
to reason justly on all questions, and particularly to be upon
their guard against the delusions of fanciful hypotheses in every
species of philosophy. No tutor or lecturer who succeeds in
such attempts, will have reason afterwards to think, that his
time has been misspent. He will be convinced, that a judicious
prosecution of the science of mathematics and natural philo
sophy is among the very best preparatives to the study of
theology in general, and of Christianity in particular."

    The section of the Strictures, headed Dr. Marsh's
Theorem, involves various algebraical calculations. Such,
however, was Dr. Milner's talent for lucid explanation, (a talent

which in his youth had been discovered and prized by the boys
in his brother's school.) that this portion of the book is not
only perfectly within the comprehension of ordinary readers,
but in truth, the most entertaining part of the whole work.
The doctrine of chances was favourite subject with Dr. Milner

he frequently, in conversation, adverted to its real utility as

                                                                                                     N
is,
                                           a
                                                                                      2

                                                                                                                              ;
546 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. G3.

applied to the common concerns of life ; and in this section of

his Strictures he has treated it con amore*.

Towards the end of this division of his work, he makes the

following  weighty observation :   that   a single        insulated  mistake

    " Let  it here be remembered,

in reasoning is limited in its effects, when compared with the

extensive operation of a general theorem, erroneous in principle

and hurtful in its application. The former evil seldom survives

the immediate circumstances that gave rise to whereas the it,

latter conceals in itself seeds of danger, which for successivea
                                                                     ;
ages may be productive of harvests of mischief."

    In the succeeding section of the Strictures Dr. Milner treats

more directly of the Bible Society, and its probable effects upon

the Established Church.

Upon this latter point he thus emphatically declares his

opinion is :I  my decided judgment, that      not in the power of
                                          it
    " It
                                               is
                                                      a
man to give solid reputation to any sound Apostolical Church,

such as verily believe the Church of England to be, more

effectually, than by promoting as extensive dissemination as

can be contrived of the pure Word of God.":

    Again " The astonishing increase and progress of this

Society in its numbers, in its funds, and in its blessed effects,
are the daily objects of pious and grateful admiration and in

this moment of general and increasing harmony, discordant

note heard, intimating that the Church in danger.' That
Church, which, for purity of doctrine and wisdom in the several
is                          '  is I

                                                    ; is
parts of its constitution, has not, verily believe, had its parallel
since the days of the Apostles, in danger in danger, too, in
consequence of the prodigious distribution which has taken
place of the Holy Scriptures through the united benevolence of
Churchmen and sectaries of all descriptions. The Church of

England,             seems, may dwindle to annihilation, while the
               it
dissenters will increase and multiply to any extent.
                        is
* This subject              again adverted to in subsequent part of thc volume
                                   a                                            ;

and some exceedingly happy illustrations are given of its practical use. See
Strtituret, p. 301.
              CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT.6S.                        547

    " It is quite unnecessary to detain the reader by going over
the same ground again." * * * " The understanding of a

child  is sufficient to  do away the objections."    and  dissipate  the
                         been to detect the errors,
    "  My object has

fancies, which have served to disguise and perplex, what, in my

judgment, is one of the most simple, and at the same time,

one of the grandest considerations that was ever contemplated

by the human intellect, viz., the dispersion of the Bible by

the voluntary and united efforts of all ranks and orders of

Christians."

That part of Dr. Milner's work which treats of the study

of divinity, is well worthy of the especial attention of clerical

students. It is usually superfluous to quote from a published
book. As, however, this work of Dr. Milner is now rarely to

be met with, it cannot be improper to insert here some of his

acute and highly practical observations upon this important

subj"ecIt. am satisfied," he writes, " that my ideas concerning the

nature of the study of divinity are widely different from those

of Dr. Marsh ; and more especially as they respect those

branches of this study, to which I conceive it to be desirable that

"yoDurn.gMerarssthudaepnptsearosf  our University should chiefly attend.
                                   to me to lay abundantly too much stress
"Ithe
on the niceties of Biblical criticism." * * *             do not

think, that a minute and accurate investigation of the various

readings of manuscripts, or a scientific knowledge of the
grounds of preference in settling the very best reading in all

cases, ought to be considered as the most important part

of divinity. Experience shows, that men may be very knowing
in these things, and yet be very poor divines -- may spend their

lives in the cultivation of this species of knowledge, and yet
be neither remarkable for the soundness of their faith in

Revelation, their skill in apprehending its doctrines, nor their

zeal in enforcing them.

    " Nothing here said is to be construed as if I were disposed

to undervalue those labours of learned men by which the Holy

IScriptures are rendered more correct. On the contrary, rejoice,

that so great pains have been taken for this purpose, and with
                                                                         2n2
548 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1A13. JETAT. 63.

Iso much success ; moreover, think it highly to be commended,

that where taste, and talent, and leisure concur, the successors-

of these learned men should pursue the same track, and make
further discoveries.

    I" Nor, again, would be understood to discourage students

of divinity from attending, throughout their lives, to such
valuable improvements in biblical criticism as are made, from
time to time, by retired persons of peculiar habits.

     " In my opinion, it is one of the material uses of biblical

 critics, that, by the labours of such men, ordinary students have
been relieved from the drudgery of going over the same ground
 themselves. Moreover, it affords a rational satisfaction to find,

 that the Canonical Scriptures, after the most diligent scrutiny,
 made both by friends and adversaries, furnish so few ambigui
 ties in the readings, and none that can materially affect the
 evidence for any one important doctrine."

     " ' Rightly to divide the word of truth,' to understand the

 doctrines of the Bible, and to apply them with judgment and
 effect, according to the different circumstances of men in
 various parishes and congregations, is divinity indeed --is that
 which indeed merits the dignified name."

     " Long experience has convinced me, that one of the most

 injudicious practices into which a public lecturer, on any sub
 ject, can fall, is that of undertaking too much. We live in an
 age when sciences have been canvassed with incessant industry;
 when all that is known of them has been commented upon
 with the greatest ingenuity, and placed in a variety of lights ;
 and when doubtful points have been stated with much fairness

 and impartiality, and objections removed, and the truth defended
 with dexterous argumentation. The consequence has been,
 that, through the abundance of materials ready at hand in
 almost every branch of science, it is become a very easy thing
 to form comprehensive syllabuses or heads of lectures, which,
 by their large promises, shall attract the fancy of persons eager
 to acquire much knowledge with the least trouble, and in the
 shortest time." » * * *

     " I submit it to the judgment of those who are best qualified

 to decide, whether, in the present circumstances of this country,
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. fi3.                        549

the best method of study in divinity might not be something

like the following :--
    " First, as a foundation for the superstructure, to secure a

competent knowledge of the learned languages, including

Hebrew; and to induce habits of closer reasoning by some

degree of the study of the mathematics, and of philosophy,

both natural and moral.

    " Such would be my preparation for a more immediate

application to the study of divinity; in the commencement of

which, I would content myself with a very concise and general

account of the history and operation of that biblical criticism

which has brought the text of the Holy Scriptures to its present
Istate of improvement. And in thus proceeding,
                                                         conceive,
Ithat should act very much on the same rational grounds that

calculators act upon, who hazard their reputation, their own

property and that of others, and even their lives, upon the

accuracy of astronomical    tables and   tables  of logarithms.
                          navigators    depend    upon the numerical
    " Our most skilful

computations already made to their hands, for enabling them to

avoid rocks and shoals, and dangerous coasts, without having

ever themselves gone through the process for ascertaining the

truth of so much as a single logarithm, or a single longitude of

the moon."

   * * * * " This system of confidence
                                        I                however, by no
                                                        is,
                                                                 I

                                                                      \
means to be carried so far as to exclude a very careful personal

examination of the evidences of Revelation -- those evidences,

mean, which prove, that the canonical books of Scripture are

the genuine writings of authors who had Divine authority to

teach the Christian religion.           esteem the three little

    " In the pursuit of this object,

volumes of Dr. Paley (containing the marrow of the more

elaborate writings of the learned Dr. Lardner), together with

his single volume of Horce Paulina, far above whole book-cases

full of the voluminous, indigested speculations of many well-

meaning authors.                        satisfied --not, indeed, so as
                                is
    " When the serious student                       is

to be able to answer completely every objection he may meet

with -- but satisfied, that the God of Israel the true God;
550 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.

that Jesus Christ, whom He has sent, is the way, the truth, and

the life ; and that the Holy Scriptures contain every thing that

is necessary for salvation, he ought not, according to my views

of the importance of time and the use of talents, to spend year

after year in attending to minute difficulties and refined specula

tions ; but immediately to begin the study of the doctrines of

his Bible, and their application to practical purposes. And
here it can scarcely be necessary to observe, that in searching

the Scriptures, with a view to doctrinal points, the examination

of the Articles and Liturgy of the Church of England will

claim the peculiar attention of students. These will supply

abundant materials for the exercise of all their reasoning

faculties, especially if they should be disposed to enter upon
Ireligious inquiries of the abstruser kind.
                                                    will, however,

venture to affirm, that the more active and zealous they are in

the discharge of the practical duties of their profession, the less

time, and the less inclination also, will they have for the

niceties of theoretical disquisitions in divinity.
I" The study of ecclesiastical history, by which
                                                          do not

mean the secular history of religion, but the history of the true

Church of Christ, wherever it is to be found ; and also the

history of the corruptions of Christian doctrines, will furnish a

subsidiary attainment, and prove exceedingly useful to the

young divine in his pursuits, both by confirming and illus
trating sound interpretations of scriptural doctrine, and by

furnishing his mind with practical maxims for the direction of

his conduct."

No apology can be necessary for the insertion, in this

place, of advice so pious, and, at the same time, so sound and

rational, as that which is contained in the above quotation.

Those readers who are already acquainted with the passage, will

be glad to have their recollection of it refreshed ; and to others,

its intrinsic excellence will sufficiently recommend it.

      However ample the notice already taken of the Strictures
vpon some of the Publications of Dr. Marsh may be judged to be,
it is probable, that the greater part of the readers of these pages

will peruse with cordial satisfaction the few brief passages

hereafter quoted.
           CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                                            551

Evidences of Dr. Milner's extraordinary power as a contro-

vertist, present themselves in every part of the volume under

consideration ; but the short extracts which follow relate to

matters of infinitely greater importance. Witness this excellent

passa"gHe e:--," (Dr. Marsh) " every where takes it for granted, that

the poor and unlearned cannot understand the Bible. Now,

whatever doubts may be raised on other points, this is, notori

a
                                                        is,

                                                 I
ously, a Popish sentiment, and       doubtless, the foundation of

large portion of mischievous Popish practice.                differ essen

tially from Dn Marsh in this point, that the poor and unlearned

have not judgment, have not ability, have not leisure, have not

inclination, for understanding the Holy Scriptures, and the

great fundamental truths contained in them.           ;I  believe they

                                                                                       is,

                                                                                           I
can understand them in all the essential points that in all

the points which concern the salvation of the soul. Nay,

believe, that number of poor, simple-minded, unlearned,
         I if a
inquirers after truth, would, on reading the Scriptures with

devout care and application, and with direct view to improve
                                     a
the heart and correct the practice, differ much less from one
                                       '
another in their ideas of the Gospel, than do frequently learned

divines, who, leaning too much to their own understanding*'

and attainments, become spoiled through philosophy and vain
                 '

deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the

world, and not after Christ t-'
" Indeed,
                 these things were not so,            the Gospel were
                                     a

                                               if
not peculiarly adapted to the circumstances of the poor, so as

to be intelligible to their understandings in all things necessary

'Ito salvation, should be utterly at loss to comprehend that
memorable thanksgiving of our blessed Saviour;                                         thank

Thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because Thou hast

hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed

them unto babes %f as also, that no less memorable answer

which He returned to the disciples of John, Go and show
                 X

                                   f

                                                                '

                                                                                    ;
John again those things which ye do hear and see the blind

* " Trov. iii. 5."-- Original Note.  "Coloss. ii. 8."-- Original Note.
                 " Matthew xi. 25."-- Original Note.
552  CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. /ETAT. fi3.

receive their sight,' * * * ' and the poor have the Gospel

preached unto them*.'"
     "ItAgain:
                is not because the'. Bible cannot be trusted

alone with safety in the hands of the poor and unlearned, that

we acknowledge our obligation to furnish them with Liturgies;

but because without the Liturgies they cannot properly join in

the public worship of God, and consequently must be

deprived of many of the inestimable advantages of religious

communion."

    " It is in a practical, much more than in a theoretical or

Icontroversial point of view, that consider the Liturgy as a

safeguard to the poor and unlearned against the delusions of

false teachers. The man who, on his knees, is in the habit of

saying, ' O God the Father;' 'O God the Son ;' ' O God the

Holy Ghost :' will not be an infidel, a Socinian, or an Arian,

but will trust in God's mercy through Christ for redemption,

and in the Holy Ghost for sanctification. So he who daily
acknowledges that he is ' tied and bound with the chain of his

sins,' and who entreats God that the 'pitifulness of His 'great

mercy may loose ' him, cannot consistently deny the doctrine

of original depravity, and become a self-righteous Pharisee.

On the other hand, it is impossible, that those who earnestly
pray for true repentance, and for forgiveness of ' all their sins,

negligences, and ignorances,' and that they may be 'endued
with the grace of the Holy Spirit to amend their lives,' should

adopt Antinomian principles, and deny the necessity of holi
ness of life." * * *

    " Doubtless, the sound doctrine contained in the Liturgy is

the basis of all the good we can expect from its distribution

and practical use. Nevertheless, it is not so much in the

Ilight of a commentator, or an interpreter of the Bible that

view the Liturgy, as of a protector of the poor and unlettered
from the seductions of false teachers." * * *

    "The Scriptures, I must for ever contend, are sufficiently

clear to the most uncultivated mind in all tilings which concern

the great and essential doctrines of salvation."

                * " Matthew xi. b."-- Original tfote.
           CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JKTAT. 13.        553

    In reference to what is usually called Calvinism, Dr. Milner
makes the following explicit and unequivocal declarations :--

   I" sincerely hold, and ever have held, unequivocally, the

very important Scriptural doctrine of universal redemption.

    " Moreover, the seventeenth Article of our Church, in its

plain and literal sense, expresses my unfeigned sentiments on

the difficult subjects of which it treats. That the doctrine of

universal redemption is reconcileable with the seventeenth

Article, I make no question. Nevertheless, those who find no

difficulties in considering the abstruse subjects of the Divine

prescience; the freedom of man and his responsibility; the
declarations in Holy Writ concerning the native innocence of

our first parents, and the subsequent corruption of human

nature, convince me that, hitherto, they have only reflected on

these points in a superficial manner."
     In the last chapter of this admirable work, the author,

laying aside, as it were, his original, but to him, ungenial design

of animadverting upon the publications of the Margaret Pro

fessor, writes in the purest spirit of the most expansive

Christian charity. The concluding paragraphs will be read
with satisfaction by all who hold the memory of Dr. Milner in

respect, not excepting even the most determined opponents of

the Society of which he was so laborious and so powerful an

advocate.

     After speaking in a strain which might now, perhaps, be

termed prophetic, of the possible approach of a time when "a

love of novelty should prevail to such an extent as nearly to

extinguish all respect and veneration for old establishments,"
Dr. Milner proceeds as follows :--
" There
a
       is,

            I;
                              a
                              is
                                                a

                                            aI
           however, strong consolation of which the most

inauspicious events cannot deprive me, viz., that have contri

buted my best efforts to remove all impediments and obstruc
tions to the diffusion of the knowledge of the Scriptures; and to

produce cordial co-operation, for this purpose, among Christians

of all denominations and, that, although the apprehension of

saying unpleasant things often very great temptation to the
suppression of truth, have, nevertheless, from deep sense of

the importance of the case, had the resolution to lay open such
554 CHAP. XXV, A.D. 1813. *TAT. 63.

defects in the reasonings of Dr. Marsh, the principal objector

to the Bible Society, as I know it to be impossible to defend.

    "The requisite attention to this subject, although it has

interrupted the progress of a work, the speedy execution of

which is near my heart, will not, however, be found entirely

Iuseless, even in that respect. The researches which have

recently made into the history of the Liturgy, and of the

Puritans, have led to the observation of several important

materials, which will enrich the sixth volume of the History of

the Church of Christ, and illuminate the account of the glorious

reformation in England. The authentic facts are abundant,

and when exhibited in a well-digested connection, will prove

with how wise and just a spirit of discrimination our excellent

Reformers retained the sound parts of the Romish ritual, and

rejected those which were the corrupt and idolatrous traditions

of fallible men.

    " Should it be the will of a good Providence to grant me

health and perseverance to bring this history down to the

present times, the rise and progress of the Bible Society will

supply a subject of most interesting narrative ; and although

the relation of the extraordinary objections it has had to

encounter, as well as of the many other difficulties it has had

to surmount, will prove an ungrateful task for the historian, yet

the triumphs of its successes and the brilliancy of its achieve

ments, cannot fail to operate on his mind as a powerful encou

ragement to disregard any fragments of prejudice and hostility

which may still be supposed to remain against a Society which

steadily perseveres in its purpose of dispersing the pure word

of God. Happy, however, would it be for the honour of the

cause of God, happy for the credit of the religion of his Son,

if both parties should learn to improve in Christian charity and
moderation -- on the one hand, the advocates of the Bible
is
        if,

                  I* ;

                              * if,
                                     *

                                                        a

                                            *

                                                                                      a
Society should learn to bear their successes with grateful

tranquillity and decorum and on the other, their adversaries

should set an impressive example of pacific disposition and

of Christian good-will."  should leave these observations to

    " It now time that

the judgment of candid and impartial readers, and to the
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.  555

blessing of that Being whose Sacred Word I ardently wish to

see dispersed throughout every part of the globe. With the
Ilate Bishop Horsley,  believe, that ' every sentence of the

Bible is from God, and that every man is interested in the
Imeaning of it.'
                  think, also, that Scripture language is

most admirably accommodated to common apprehensions.

The Word of God which goeth forth out of his mouth shall

not return unto Him void, but shall accomplish that which He

pleases, and shall prosper in the thing whereto He sends it.

This declaration is, to my mind, a most encouraging induce

ment to dismiss at once all fanciful conjectures that may be
started concerning the dispersion of the Scriptures, ' which are
able to make' men ' wise unto salvation through faith which is

in Christ Jesus.'

    " It is the constant prayer of a Churchman, that the Lord

may deliver him ' in the hour of death, and in the clay of

judgment;' and I have observed, that men whose established

reputation for talents and piety effectually repels the most

distant suspicion of enthusiasm, have had their serious attention

drawn, during the agitation of this great question, to those

awful moments in which the distinction of Churchmen and

Dissenters shall be no more ; and have expressed their con

viction, that they will then be the least disposed to repent of

having supported the Bible Society*. It would be a great

presumption in me to rank myself with such characters in any
point of view, except in the circumstance of my entire agree

ment with them, that when the innumerable partialities and

prejudices which serve to delude mankind in this imperfect
state shall vanish, or shrink into their just dimensions, the

recollection of having been a friend and not an adversary of

the Bible Society, will afford me a vivid satisfaction without

any apprehension of blame for having been too zealous in
promoting the dissemination of the Word of God."

    A review of Dean Milner's Strictures, with copious
extracts, may be found in the June and July numbers of the

Christian Observer, for the year 1813. The writer of that

* Sec a Pamphlet by the Right lion. N. Vansittart, now Lord Bexlcy.
556 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. /ETAT. 63.

review    remarks,   that " the task " was " worthy of     superior
powers,"   and that  it was " executed with the hand of a  master."
He adds, that " the Dean has filled his pages with so much

admirable matter, and has displayed such comprehensiveness

of mind and such extent and acuteness of research, such solidity

of argumentation and   such variety of  learning," that his work
                       a very valuable  accession to the general
must be " esteemed as

cause of literature."

    IIt is chiefly on account of its general value, that have been

so anxious to fix the attention of those who may peruse these
pages upon this work of Dr. Milner.

     Published nearly thirty years ago, with the view of serving
a particular cause, it is now very naturally, although incor

rectly, supposed by many persons, to be a mere defence of the
Bible Society ; whereas it is, in fact, a book full of sound and
luminous views both of history and philosophy; powerful in
reasoning, and admirable in illustration ; so simple in its

general purpose and arrangement, as to be perfectly within the
comprehension of an ordinary mind, and yet so deep and argu

mentative as, in many parts, to tax the highest powers even of

Ithe most sagacious and profound thinkers. On this subject
Imay be pardoned, if prefer to use the words of another rather

than my own. The writer of the review already quoted, thus

declares, in few words, his " deliberate" judgment of the com
prehensive work in question. " It displays, in every part, the
energies of a most powerful and vigorous mind, --of a mind

which will shrink from no subject where the human intellect

can be applied, and which proceeds straight to its end without
deviation or obliquity, -- dashing aside, with instinctive decision,

whatever is foreign or irrelevant, sweeping away at once all
the thistles and thorns of sophistry, by which mischievous
ingenuity would block up the way to the temple of truth. Dr.

Milner is a friend to fair fighting and unequivocal blows ; he
has no stratagem for attack, and never dreams about retreat."
* * * " He is a profound master of argumentation; he

never loses himself, and never misleads his readers ; his logic

is plain and decisive ; he advances at once to the objection, and

meets it like a man who is conscious of his strength. If we
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.                                                     557

have contemplated with admiration the character of his mind,

we have been no less delighted with the various and extensive
learning with which it is so richly stored, and the noble ends to
which that learning is applied. Controversial writings are gene
rally forgotten with the immediate cause that produced them ;

they have, usually, a fugitive existence. In the present in

stance, we venture to foretell a different fate. This volume

deserves to be read by the scholar, for its style and research ;
by the logician, for its reasoning ; and by all classes, for the
Christian instruction, and for the lessons of practical wisdom
which fill its pages.

    " It will be known and admired long after the bustle of this

most marvellous controversy shall have passed away."

    It may be proper to observe, that in my quotations, &c.
from Dr. Milner's Strictures I have used a copy corrected

by himself, and enriched with many marginal annotations, and
additions. The following declaration is written with his own

hand, upon a blank leaf : " If I have said anything improper ;

anything which an impartial reader thinks had better have been

Ileft unsaid, withdraw it ; and if there be a single expression
which is unchristian in any respect, I would wish to blot it

out."

      Before the close of the year 1813, Dr. Marsh published a

pamphlet entitled A Reply to the Strictures of the Rev. Isaac
Milner. The object, however, which Dr. Milner had proposed
to himself--the permanent advantage of the Bible Society -- not
personal renown as a victorious disputant --had been attained ;

 and, in accordance with the intimation given in the Strictures*,

 he refrained from publishing any rejoinder to the Reply of the
 Margaret Professorf. Having presented a copy of his book to

   * Vide Strictures, p. 281.                                                      drew up paper on the subject, headed
      Dr. Milner did not come to this                                              Pros and Cons, in which those argu
                                                                                   ments are succinctly stated, and their
determination without serious consi                                                value estimated. The Pros so far pre
                                                                                   vailed, that he actually wrote an ela
deration, lie indeed, at once, and on
                                                                                   borate treatise, rectifying what he
principle, resolved not to resume his
pen till all exasperated feeling, on both                                          considered the misrepresentations of
sides, should he allayed; but he deli                                              Dr. Marsh concerning the doctrines of
berately weighed the arguments for or                                              the English and Scotch Churches, their

against second publication; and even
"j-
           a

                                                                                  a
558 CHAP. XXV. A.r). 1813. JETAT. 03.

the Right. Hon. Nicholas Vansittart, Dr. Milner received in
return, the following very pious and sensible letter.

"My dear Sir,                           "Downing Street, April, 1813.
" I was this morning honoured with your very acceptable

present of your answer to Dr. Marsh. If ever the success of

the Bible Society could have been doubtful, the events of the

past year must have placed it beyond dispute, as far as public

opinion and extensive patronage can decide it.

    I" am, however, sometimes, a little disposed to reflect on

the situation of the Church under Constantine; and to ask

myself whether so much imperial and royal patronage will really

promote the simplicity and godly sincerity in which alone the
cause of a Society like ours can prosper. We have, however,
to look to our own hearts, or rather to Him to whom all

hearts are open, that our internal improvement may correspond

with our external splendour. The Society is becoming every

day a more powerful instrument of good ; and it will be our own
fault if we do not fully participate in the blessings which it is

the instrument of conveying to others.
               " Believe me ever, dear Sir,
                                        " Very sincerely, yours,
" The Dean of Carlisle."                                " N* Vansittart.

      Extreme tenderness of disposition was certainly one of Dr.
Milner's distinguishing qualities. Anything like a feeling of

coldness existing between himself and any person whom he
regarded as a friend, or with whom he had been long intimate,
rendered him absolutely wretched. This temper of mind is
strongly exhibited in the following extracts from a letter written
about this time to a very old acquaintance, between whom and
himself untoward circumstances had occasioned some estrange

ment.

points of difference, Calvinism, &c.,   his papers, is of the highest value;it,
&c, and likewise exposing certain       aud will possess permanent interest,
errors of his opponent of a philosophi  when the particular controversy, which
                                        was tho immediate occasion of shall
cal and mathematical nature. The
                                        be forgotten.
whole work, as it now exists among
               CHAP. XXV. AJ). lf!13. /T3TAT. G3.                                                    559

                                        "                                               Lodge,

                                           Queen's

"My dear                                                  April 29, 1813.
    " 1. Permit me to premise what is uppermost in my mind;

Iviz., that read your letter of yesterday with great pleasure. It

is written in a spirit of conciliation ; and, viewing it in that

light, I shall not easily forget the kindness which it breathes.

    " Now let this sincere acknowledgment have the intended

effect ; that  is,  let prevent anything which may happen to
                    it                                    I
                                                                          Ia
say,"fr2o. mItghivaisngevtehre   smallest offence.   me,  that                          the  best    pre
                                been principle with
                                a

servative of friendship         is     speedy and full explanation of all
                                    a

misunderstandings of any magnitude; and along with this,

disregard, or absolute silence in matters of less consequence.
abominate fendings and provings -- they make me miserable -- so

does the least alienation of mind, in the case of those with

whom am anxious to stand well.          have reasons for believing,
a                                  if

     I! I I 1                             I
          I
                                                      I it
                I                                                                    ;
that my time in this world may be but short and such my
                                                                                        it

                                                                                          I
                                                                                               is
natural temper, that nothing will more tend to make shorter,

than the least misunderstanding with persons with whom wish

ever to preserve the best of terms. Hence is, that even from

principle of self-comfort, nothing better, am ever ready to

lay hold of the smallest opening that presents itself, for return
                                                                                             it a a
of friendship and good-will.

    "3. entirely accord with you, that there has been sort of

fatality attending our correspondence.  I            have lamented most

deeply, and the more so, because you are the only person living

with whom have ever experienced anything of the kind and
                                                                                                ;

because you have constantly expressed your disposition to

oblige and gratify me, in kinder and stronger terms, on some

occasions, than could have any claim to expect. From some
of your near relatives, likewise, have met with real kindnesses
                                       II
                                                       II
                                                                      I
which must gratefully remember as long as breathe.                                                   can

only add, may all disagreeable recollections be for ever buried in

oblivion

"4. do assure you, my dear ---- that felt some things

which took place at                soon after the renewal of our dormant

connexion, so bitterly, that Mould almost rather, in future,
5 6O         CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

forbear all communication with you, than endure a repetition of
Ithem.
        say, again, may they be forgotten by both of us!"

It is satisfactory to be able to add, that they were

forgotten. Many letters, perfectly friendly in their tone, were

afterwards exchanged by the same correspondents, and the

Dean's memory was held by the survivor in the highest regard

and esteem.

     Among the friends who have favoured me with reminis

Icences of Dean Milner, am particularly indebted to the Right

Hon. T. B. Macaulay. This gentleman, who first became

acquainted with the Dean in the spring of the year 1813, thus
writes :--

    " I fear that my recollections of your uncle will be of little

use to you. They are, for the most part, the recollections of a

Ichild ; but, such as they are, have great pleasure in recalling

them.

    " Dean Milner was one of the many valuable friends to
whom my dear father was introduced by Mr. Wilberforce : and

while Mr. Wilberforce lived on Clapham Common, I once or
Itwice saw the Dean there; but do not remember, that he ever

noticed me.

    "In 1813, and 1814, I was at school, in the neighbourhood

of Cambridge. We had holidays at Easter, but so short, that it

was not worth while for any boy who resided at a distance, to
Igo home ; and expected to pass three or four very dull days :
Ifor nothing is so wretched as a vacation spent at school.
Iremember with what delight
                             learned, on Easter Monday,

1813, that the Dean of Carlisle had sent for me, and that I was

to pass the week at the Lodge of Queen's College. My delight
Iwas not indeed unmingled with apprehension.
                                               was only

twelve years old ; Dean Milner must have been upwards of

sixty. His figure, which, to a child, seemed gigantic, inspired
Ime with awe.
               had also heard some young men from Cam

bridge, while praising his great talents and acquirements, speak

with dislike of his rigid opinions, and of the sternness with

which he exercised his authority. I remember, that, though
I enjoyed the thought of rambling about among the Col
leges, I anticipated no pleasure in the company of my host,
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                  561

Iwhom had pictured to myself as a severe and imperious

old man.

   "With such feelings I reached the Lodge of Queen's
ICollege, and there was instantly set at ease.

"The Dean laid himself out to please and amuse me, as if
Ihe had been an affectionate grandfather and
                                              a favourite
Igrandchild. In the first place, he insisted on knowing what

should like for dinner. Then he ransacked his library to find

entertainment for me. In the long gallery which joined his
Istudy and the dining-room
                            first became acquainted with
Moliere and with Richardson. I still remember with what
Igaiety and interest he talked to me about them. But what

have often since thought most remarkable, was the dexterity

with which he extracted from the gravest sciences entertain
I Iment for an idle boy.
                  well remember with what delight

sate by him one morning over a huge volume of the plates of

the Enq/cloptedia, while he explained to me the principle of one

machine after another. Then he turned the conversation to

Count Rumford's plans in Bavaria, and gave a history of them,
Iso lively, that
                  have never forgotten it. He had a taste,

amounting to a passion, for all those curious exhibitions which

border on the marvellous, which ignorant and superstitious

people are apt to think preternatural, and which even those

who do not think them preternatural, are forced to admit to be

quite inexplicable. He loved to strip away the mystery from

these things, and to reduce them to simple natural phenomena.

It was he who discovered the nature of the machinery by

which the Invisible Girl diverted and amazed London*. He

was also eminently successful in detecting the tricks of jugglers.

This turn of mind, it may be easily supposed, made him a

delightful companion for a boy. He had an inexhaustible fund

of anecdotes about ventriloquism, legerdemain, the perform
ances of automatons, optical delusions, &c. How he talked

Iabout science to men do not know, but to me he made it as

agreeable as an Arabian tale."

                  * See Chapter XIV.

                                              2o
562 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. .ETAT. 63.

      Such a letter as this ought not to be divided ; but as the
remaining portion relates to circumstances which occurred at a
later period, it must be postponed.

     Every particular which Mr. Macaulay so graphically relates,
and every sentence in his letter, recalls to my mind some
familiar recollection. The long gallery, with its bookcase, -- the
spirit with which Dr. Milner entered into the humour of
Moliere --the folio volumes of the Encyclopaedia -- the Dean's
conversations about Count Rumford --his passion for whatever
appeared mysterious -- his delight in the feats of jugglers --his
anecdotes respecting their performances, or respecting optical
delusions --in short, every circumstance particularized in the
above admirable letter, has a character of vivid reality, which
could only belong to the genuine reminiscences of a person
capable of appreciating the truly original character of Dean
Milner, and of seizing upon its distinguishing traits.

     Dean Milner's publisher had been directed to forward a

copy of the Strictures to each member of the Episcopal Bench.
     The Bishop of Carlisle acknowledged the receipt of his copy

in the following letter :

" My dear Dean,                " Berners Street, May 3, 1813.
" I am much obliged for your attention to me, in sending
Ime a copy of your Strictures.
                                admire your nerves to enter
Iinto this thorny controversy, which had thought had subsided
and been laid by. You know that I look at everything of
Iyours with great partiality.
                                certainly shall at this per
Iformance, although, perhaps, may not agree with you in all
points." * * * *

"The fall of Dantzic seems to be discredited. Time will

show. We purpose being at Rose Castle in the beginning of

June, and shall hope to meet you there in perfect health and

spirits.

                  " I am, my dear Dean,

                                 " Your very faithful servant,

                                               " Saml. Carlisle.

" To the Very Reverend

The Bean of Carlisle."
       CHAP. XXV. A.I). 1A13. /ETAT. 63.               563

The Dean's answer to this letter contains the following

passage :

    " In order that friendly sentiments should exist, it is not at

all necessary, that there should be an entire agreement in all
points -- where men think for themselves, this is scarcely to

be expected. Openness, and a candid construction of one's

Imotives, are the only essential requisites ; and wherever see

these, they never fail to gain my heart, and to secure from me a

return of sincere and grateful affection.  I will tell you how

    " Your Lordship admires my nerves.
Ithat is. With great appearance of strength, am as poor a
Inervous being as ever existed ; and were to ruminate upon
Icontentious matters, might bid adieu to sleep and appetite.
IBut the fact is, endeavour to form my resolution as carefully,
Iand on as good grounds as I can ; and when that is formed,
go straight forward without talking to any one about it. It is

the talking to busybodies, and the listening to tittle-tattle of all

sorts, that keeps the mind in a perpetual heat and fret. Never

Ibefore, in my life, was in a controversy, except the petty
Ibusiness with Dr. Haweis ; and have been remarkably slow to

enter into this. My papers were nearly ready last spring, and

I never looked at a single line of them for five or six months."

     The late excellent Bishop of Durham, the Hon. and Right
Rev. Shute Barrington, thus wrote on a similar occasion :

"Dear Mr. Dean,             " Cavendish Square, May 7, 1813.
"Though the little leisure of which I am master in this

scene of bustle, even at my advanced age, has not permitted

Ime to read the whole of your interesting volume, yet cannot
Idelay thanking you very cordially for that part which have

read. You have exposed the sophistry of your opponent, and

you have done justice to those Churchmen who have been

induced, like myself, from motives of the truest attachment to

the Church of England, to become members of the British and

Bible

   "
IForeign  Society.    much  regard,  dear  Mr.  Dean,
          am, with    " Your faithful servant,

" Dean of Carlisle."                            " S. Dunelm.

                                                2 o2
564 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.

     Letters now poured in from all quarters, expressive of the

admiration and satisfaction of friends, clerical and lay. A
gentleman residing in Northumberland wrote : " Your answer

to Marsh has been very useful in this neighbourhood, and your
time could not have been employed in the support of a more
important cause. That you may long be preserved by the
Captain of our salvation, to vindicate His cause, and to illus
trate the truth, is my earnest prayer."

     Lord Teignmouth wrote in strong terms of approbation ; so
did Zachary Macaulay, Esq. The Bishop of Norwich had
spoken of the work in terms of the highest praise at the
meeting of the parent Society on the 1st of May. Enough,
however, has been said concerning the opinions which this
performance called forth.

     The following letter to an intimate friend at Carlisle, con

tains, among other very interesting matter, some slight remarks
respecting by Dean Milner himself.
I
"My dear Sir,                                         " Queen's Lodge,
  II
                                                             17M May, 1813.
               it,
                                    is"Your letter of October 30th, 1812, has been read over by

                                                   ame very often since the receipt of it, and has met my eye while

turning over papers in my paper-case, almost times without

number.

"Your poor dear Thomas has left an impression on my mind,

which, find, will not easily be effaced.              was much interested
                                                      II
about the dear boy from the time when first began to give
                                                             a!             *             *
attention to the accident that proved so fatal                                 ;
" The symptoms which you mention, of holy seed sown in
                                                                                a*
his young heart, are very pleasant to me to hear of and must                           *

be delightful to his parents to recollect.            I                     took cold at

    " have experienced but a rough winter.

Hull in October last, which fell upon my tender breast, that

had suffered some years ago from chymical experiments.
" My dear
                                                      great comfort to me.
" listens very steadily to the one thing needful
                                                                                          and
                                                                               I
                                                                                           ;

                                                                                              is
as see nothing contrary to the true Christian spirit, hope the

proofs will, by and by, be more decidedly apparent. There
                  CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JET AT. 63.          565

Igreat reason to hope the best ; but, like my deceased brother,

am very slow to believe, unless the evidence be very good."   ,

    " * * * Since the decease of my poor niece Mrs. C

we have had so many melancholy circumstances to brood over,

Ithat have scarcely had any heart to write to anybody.

     " But, God be praised ! these are the very times when the

strength, the beauty, the excellence of the Gospel show them

selves. These are the times when there appears to be a reality

in religion. If the kingdom of God be but within us, what

can we have to fear ? what can we be in want of ? Alas ! how

wretched and contemptible are the expectations and views of

worldly men ! I declare, I can say for myself most truly, that,

though surrounded with innumerable earthly blessings and com

Iforts, of which thousands and tens of thousands are deprived,
feel, that I should be a most miserable being, ' if in this life
only' I had 'hope !'

    " Some time ago Mr. of wrote to me a very

proper letter respecting the formation of a Bible Society at
ICarlisle.
                  was, at that time, exceedingly busy, preparing my
Ibook in answer to Dr. Marsh.
                                   could not well mention what
I Iwas about then ; as had hardly mentioned it to any one,
and had reasons for keeping it snug. It was never advertised

till  the   very  moment   it was  ready.
             has  grieved  me to   hear, that
      " It                                              should appear to
be so much prejudiced; and I could             have wished, that all

attempts to promote an auxiliary society at Carlisle, had been
suspended till my book had got into full circulation, or perhaps

till I should come among you at the chapter. Mischief, I fear,

has been done by our friends being too precipitate. However,

we must make the best of it.
      " After all, have you heard of my book at all ? It has been
Itadvertised several times.
                                   is rather an elaborate work, con
sisting of 419 pages. It sells for nine shillings, which is more
Ithan could have wished ; but everything is dear. You may

make it known, that if there be any gains, they are to go to the
IBible Society ; if any loss, it is to be borne by myself.
                                                             was

advised to make that known in the title-page; but it struck me

as liable to be construed as ostentatious ; yet it may as well be
566 CHAP. XXV. A.l). 1813. jETAT. 63.

known, because several persons may not dislike                  to contribute,  in
                                                                to Mrs.
this"wYaoyu, rtsh, edireamriteSirt,o   the  Bible  Society.
                                      with  kind   remembrance

and all your family.                               "Isaac Milner."

The Earl of Hardwicke had written to Dean Milner, con

cerning the Strictures, in terms strongly expressive of admira

tion. In his answer, the Dean makes some observations, which

will be read with interest. After thanking his Lordship for

some venison, which " luckily happened to arrive, very much

    day or two before a                            large dinner party,"  he proceeds
    is impossible, that                            should not be much    gratified by
Itaoprsoapyo, s",a

It
Iyour Lordship's warm approbation of my Strictures. dislike

Icontroversy exceedingly ; and, as a proof of my unwillingness

to appear in it, assure you, that my manuscript was very

nearly ready in the spring of last year.

    " I allow, that, in fact, there was very little to answer ; and

that little had been well answered, over and over. But, with

all the respect which I could have for Dr. Marsh's labours and

researches, there remained, in my mind, a strong conviction,

that he over-rated them ; that there was a good deal of puff

about him; and that his cause rested rather upon plausible

appeals to his supposed high reputation, than upon its intrinsic

merits. This idea opened to me quite new, and advantageous

ground ; and I ventured to avail myself of it. In doing this, a

I Ifirm tone was absolutely called for ; but trust, have not, for

a moment, forgotten the duty of avoiding 'all bitterness and

evil-speaking.'

    " In such cases there is always something to be said by a

plausible controvertist ; but it is my full intention not to

prolong the dispute. If a second edition Ibe called for, may,

perhaps, very briefly take notice of anything which I may think
a material misrepresentation in Dr. M.'s reply.

   I" The Strictures are sold at a higher price than could have

wished ; but Messrs. Cadell say the book could not have been

afforded for less. Indeed, 1 understand it sells very well.

However, as I gave it to the Bible Society to make the best
              CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                  567

they could of there can be nothing wrong in my desiringis it,

any one who         a friend to the Bible Society, and also to the

                                   it,
book, to promote the dispersion of as often as opportunities

offer.                   "

                         I     remain, my dear Lord,
                                  " Your obedient servant,
" Earl of Hardwicke."
                                                      " Isaac Milner.

     From a correspondence on the affairs of the East India
College, one letter may be selected.

              "To the Rev. Mr. Malthus.

"Reverend Sir,                                " Queen's College Lodge,
    " am much flattered
       I                                                  May, 1813.
                               by your very obliging attention in
                      a
sending me copy of your letter to Lord Grenville.
    " The delicate manner in which you communicate your veryI

just and well-digested observations, both to the noble Peer and

also to the India Directors, does great credit to your ability, and

to your regard for the prosperity of the India College. It
                                                                is
                                                                    a

most lamentable thing, that, in our country, party views should

often prejudice the understanding of our ablest and most

enlightened statesmen. To such views and connections seem
                                                           I

to trace Lord Grenville's sentiments.
    " In regard to the matter of Appearand other defects in the

domestic government of the College,          impossible that
                                   ;                            I

                                       it

                                             is

                                             I
should not cordially agree with you because foresaw those

defects, and urged the necessity of providing against them,

before experience had confirmed my suspicions of what was

likel"y   to  happen.          in  speaking  on this  subject,  should

         If   Lord Grenville,

still continue to be incautious, and the defects in the govern
                                   if
                                                       it
ment of the College should remain unremedied, will not be

your fault.   " have the honour to be, Reverend Sir,
                             " Your obedient servant,
                                                 "Isaac Milner."
568 CHAP. XXV. A.)). 1U13. JETAT. 63.

A long correspondence took place about this time between

Dean Milner and the late Rev. Robert Goodenough, on the

subject of some chapter business, concerning which a law-suit

was pending. Letters written upon such an occasion cannot be

supposed to contain much matter of general interest ; the

following practical observations, however, extracted from one

dated " May 19th, 1813," are worthy of preservation :--
    " Permit me," writes the Dean, " to take this opportunity of

Imaking an observation which, believe, you may have heard
Ime make before, on the general management of business.
have always thought, and the more I have had to do with

public bodies, the stronger has the opinion become, that the

collecting of the opinions of the members of a corporate body,

one by one, by letter, for the purpose of deciding on any ques
tion of importance, is, in general, for many reasons, a very
objectionable mode of proceeding. The opinions so collected,
can hardly be called the deliberate, digested opinions of the

individuals who give them : often, they are founded on partial

information: often, there is little opportunity of hearing the

pros and cons : often, men comply from mere civility ; and in

many instances, it is absolutely impossible to impress the mind

of another, by letter, in the same manner that you can, by con

Iversation. Then, have repeatedly observed, that men don't

like to put down in writing what they may have no objection to

say in talking. Again ; if a man happen to hear, that several

have concurred in any point of opinion, he may not choose to

encounter such a concurrence by letter, though he would not

scruple to speak freely, and in detail, in company. Lastly;

in this way, neither time nor opportunity is given for weighing

the several things that might be dropped in conversation at a

meeting of the members of a Society, differing, perhaps, in

judgment, but, nevertheless, discussing the matter in the very

best humour.

    I" am well aware, that there will sometimes be inconve
Iniences arising from waiting till chapters can be held -- know
this must be the case --but the answer
                                        is,

                                                I
                                        there will be some

inconveniences in any mode of proceeding; and, think, we

ought to submit to some of those which arise from delay, rather
                CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.  569

than hazard the transacting of business not well, precipitately,

and in a way that may make us wish, we had done otherwise."

    In another letter, written about this time, to another pre
bendary, upon a different subject, a similar passage occurs. " The

business of public bodies," writes the Dean, "is rarely well
Idone by letters.
                      have a great objection to this method, when

it attempts to go beyond mere information and deliberation.

The opinions so collected are solitary, insulated opinions,

framed without the advantages of mutual discussion, and cannot

I Ibe considered as the ultimate, digested result of the judgment.
   do not object to preparation in this way; but deprecate

decision. In every transaction in which you have been con

Icerned with me, you may have observed, that have constantly
kept clear of prepossession --have remained unembarrassed and
Iunfettered.
                am confident, that, in future, it will be far better

to do business by chapters, notwithstanding some inconve

Iniences ; and, in cases of any difficulty, shall always be ready

to call them."

The two or three sentences which follow have, perhaps, no

very close connexion with the preceding observations; but they

are so thoroughly characteristic of the writer, who even when

displeased, was never really out of humour, that their insertion

here may be permitted. " You greatly mistake if you think I

Istruggle for power. Unless had more, I actually wish I had

less. We have, all of us, sufficient power to plague one

another; but my case is particular; if anything goes wrong,
                      is ascribed to me-- the responsibility, then, is
plenty of    power     to me." * * * " My idea of a dean and
all said to   attach

chapter is, that of a cabinet, the members of which act cor

dially with each other; and support each other against their

common adversaries, of which they have but too many.

    " In the operations of all public bodies, this sort of good

faith is strictly required. The popularity of one member should

never be purchased at the expense of another."

     Expressions of approbation and congratulation, from persons
who had read the Strictures, continued to flow in upon Dr.

Milner. On the 20th of May, Z. Macaulay, Esq., thus wrote
to him : " The book sells well. Cadell thinks it not unlikely
570 CIIAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. ^ITAT. 63.

that a second edition may be called for. You may, at your

                  you know what leisure is,) be correcting copy with
"Ileisure,
aa                                        **            a
                                                                      is
             a (if                                                          a
view to second edition."             *                  received yesterday

                                          I
"'Iletter from our friend Buchanan.                   extract one paragraph.

       have just read Dr. Milner's Strictures, and have praised

God who hath given such understanding to men. He

host in himself and High Church will begin henceforth to view
       a
                       ;
him in new light. They will dread his principles less, and

reverence his abilities more.         trust will please God to spare
                                     a
his life for some years*.'"
                                      I
At this period, Lady Olivia Sparrow invited Dr. Milner to
                                                     a

                                                    it
spend some time at her house in company with Mrs. Hannah

More.    After declining, in letter of                vMeriylneerlegaadndts,ac"knMoiwslsedgH.
ment,  her ladyship's invitation, Dr.

More, as well as myself, has been great sufferer in point of
health. Have the goodness to assure her of my kind remem

brances and regards; and also of my admiration of her

unwearied exertions in the best of causes, in the midst of so

much bodily infirmity and affliction."

Like Dr. Johnson, between whose character and that of

Dean Milner there were some striking points of resemblance,

the Dean was always peculiarly gratified by the attentions of

women of elegance. A mark of courtesy from              lady made
                                      if

                                                                     a
                                                                   a
                                                                                              a
deeper impression upon his mind than would have been made

by the same or greater civility offered by man, however
of I
distinguished by talent or station.is a

The meeting of the Board of Longitude called Dr. Milner

to London during the first week in June, and shortly afterwards

he set forth on his annual journey to Carlisle. The summer

was a busy one. The Dean and Chapter were engaged in                          a

law-suit, to which he gave much personal attention. Retired

as were his habits, he appeared in court at the Assizes, and, as

well remember, observed on his return that there had been

   * This passage quoted in the Life  chanan be correctly reported to Deanis
   Dr. Buchanan, as occurring iu one  Milner by Mr. Macaulay, the passage

of His letters. It may be observed,       not given with perfect accuracy in
that if the expressions of Dr. Bu
                                      the Life.
                CHAP. XXV. A.l). 1818. JETAT. 63.                   571

five senior wranglers present; a circumstance, probably, of

very unusual occurrence. These five distinguished mathema

ticians were, the Dean himself, and four of the counsel, viz.,

the late Mr. Harrison, of Queen's College ; Sir Edward Alderson,

then for the first time on the Northern Circuit ; Sir Frederick

Pollock, and, I think, Sir Joseph Littledale. A recollection

better worth preserving, relates to a conversation held by Dean

Milner with Mr. Harrison, concerning the impropriety of

Sunday Consultations. The discussion took place at the

Deanery on the evening of the Assize Sunday. Mr. Harrison

acknowledged the duty of attendance upon divine service, but

was disposed to maintain, that, that duty performed, a consul

tation might be innocently attended. The Dean concisely, but

very forcibly, represented the obligation to "keep holy the

Sabbath-day,"    adding,   that  "apneaocpepoasittethelinleasot.f"  conduct would
surely fail to  bring a   man                                          He had the

satisfaction, some years afterwards, to find, that his arguments

had made a deep and influential impression upon the mind of

him to whom they had been addressed.

    On this same Assize Sunday, the Dean preached in the

Cathedral, to a densely crowded congregation, a sermon* not

yet forgotten among the members of the Northern Circuit.
With reference to this discourse^ Sir Edward Alderson, to

whom the readers of this Memoir are already indebted for some

very interesting reminiscences, writes, " I remember being

much delighted with the sermon Dr. Milner preached at the
Carlisle Assizes, at the commencement of my career on the

Northern Circuit. The liveliness and force of his style, mixed

with a certain quaintness and oddity, made him to me a very

attractive preacher. There was, withal, a fund of excellent

matter. But that, you do not want to hear from me."

by  Some idea of the nature of this sermon    may                   be suggested
                                              evil                  work is not
    the text ; " Because sentence against an

executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is

fully set in them to do evil but from an argumentative dis

course overflowing with matter, it is obviously very difficult to

                * Vide Dean Milner's Sermons, vol. Scr. 5.i.,
572 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

detach particular passages without damage to their effect and
to that of the whole composition : and it is the less necessary
to make the attempt, as Dean Milner's Sermons, unlike the
Strictures, may still be met with. In this discourse, judges,
jurors, and witnesses, are severally addressed. The difficult
question respecting the length to which an advocate may justi

fiably go, in pleading the cause of his client, if he himself

happen to entertain doubts concerning the justice of that cause,
is treated with a master's hand ; and there is added an address

to the counsel, conceived in a strain of faithful admonition,

beyond all praise. This admirable sermon concludes with a
brief exposition of "the Gospel of Christ," and of "the way to

make a right use of it ;" " points which," as the Dean elsewhere
declares, he " desires never to lose sight of, in any discourse,
let the subject be what it will."

     This sermon, as it has been already intimated, was delivered

on a Sunday. It used to be the custom at Carlisle, that the

Judges should always attend the service of the Cathedral on a

Sunday, even though, as was frequently the case, they had come
into the town so early in the preceding week, that the business
of the assize was, perhaps, before that day, concluded.

     This practice appeared to Dean Milner exceedingly liable to
objection. He thought, that, in common decorum, the Judges
ought to attend divine service, and thus publicly implore the
blessing of the Almighty, before entering upon their solemn
functions; and therefore effected, in this particular, an im
portant change. It was arranged, in consequence of his advice,
that the Judges should, in future, at Carlisle,-- as they did,
and do, in most other places, --attend upon public worship
immediately before engaging in their judicial duties.

     In the midst of his numerous occupations, Dean Milner was
never forgetful or negligent of those "lesser charities of life"
upon which so much of the happiness of society depends. He
had received an intimation, that a young lady who had been
educated in the Roman Catholic faith, but who, on arriving at
years of discretion, was desirous to throw off the yoke of
Romish superstition, was most anxious to converse with him,
and to have the benefit of his instruction respecting the real
             CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.           573

nature of the Christian religion, as revealed in the New Testa
ment. He immediately signified, through the same channel by
which the intimation had been made, his readiness to be of
service in so good a cause ; and to the young lady herself, who

was personally unknown to him, he wrote the following letter :--

a letter which deserves to be termed a model of Christian

courtesy.

"Madam,          "Deanery, Carlisle, July 3rd, 1813.
" From a communication with             , of this city, I learn,

that you have expressed a wish to have some conversation with

me upon a religious subject of a very important nature ; and
Ithough     have not the pleasure of knowing you, I cannot

dissemble the satisfaction it affords me, to hear of a disposition

so laudable appearing in the mind of a young lady of sound

understanding and excellent accomplishments.

   "It is impossible, Madam, that I should not promise,

with confidence, good success to your serious and conscientious

inquiries. For besides that true religion is, in itself, the most

rational thing in the world, we have an express scriptural
'Ifencouragement, (John vii. 17,) that
                                        any man will do his

will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God.'

    " I am, therefore, fully persuaded, that, persevering with

such views and motives as those which influence your mind at
present, a good and gracious Providence will not suffer you
either to remain long in the dark, or to be led astray by

erroneous notions of any kind.

   I" Happy shall be if Almighty God shall be pleased to

make me, in any way, instrumental towards promoting your
good purpose of obtaining a rational satisfaction on points
of the utmost consequence to all our happiness, both here and

hereafter.   " I am, Madam, with true respect,

                 " Your obedient and faithful servant,
" To Miss B                             " Isaac Milner.
             ."

     Several interviews subsequently took place; and by the
blessing of God upon an intercourse marked by the deepest
                    CHAI\ XXV. A.D. 181:1. JET AT. Ki.

 anxiety to learn, on the one part, and the most consummate
 ability to teach, on the other, the happiest consequences ensued.
The lady embraced, from sincere conviction, the doctrines of
the Prote stant Church ; and, some years afterwards, died in the
faith and hope of the Gospel.

     An important matter which occupied a considerable portion
of Dr. Milner's attention during this busy season, was the final
arrangement of the rules to be observed in the management of
the Diocesan School. The Bishop's sentiments with regard to
the conditions upon which the children of dissenters should be
admitted into this establishment, have appeared in his letters
upon this subject*; and upon this point, as the reader of these
pages is already aware, the Dean and he differed. Dr. Milner's
feelings and his determination with respect to this affair, are
plainly expressed in the following note which he addressed to
the Prebendaries, the Rev. Messrs. Markham and R. Goode-
nough, on occasion of their going out of residence at Carlisle.

It is amusing to observe, in a note of this official, or semi

official nature, so many characteristic touches.

"To the Rev. Messrs. Markham and R. Goodenough,

                    ON THEIR PARTING FROM CARLISLE.

                                                     "Deanery, July 29, 1813.
    " The Dean cannot permit his brethren, Messrs. Markham
and R. Goodenough, to depart, without once more expressing,
how much he has been gratified by the mutual satisfaction with
which the chapter business has been conducted throughout.
    " On the knotty point, the Dean means to say nothing to

any one, unless he should be so absolutely pressed to say some
thing, as not to be able to avoid giving his sentiments ; and in
that case, he will explicitly hold, that he approves the thing in

general -- means to support it--but cannot agree to a greater

exclusion of the children of dissenters, than that which is
recommended by the practice of the Great Central School in
London.

                               * See Chapter XXIV.
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. MTAT. 63.                             575

" The Dean trusts, that all will ripen into good-humour, and

terminate well.                          for the happiness  of

    " He concludes with every good wish

his friends and their families."

     In the midst, however, of his numerous and various avoca
tions, Dr. Milner never lost sight of that which he justly consi

dered as the chief duty incumbent upon him, as Dean of a
Cathedral. To labour effectively in the pulpit, was his great
object. His feelings with regard to this subject, appear in the

following extract from a letter to a friend, dated,

                                       "Deanery, Carlisle, August 3rd, 1813.

   I" find, most assuredly," he writes, " that the longer, and
Ithe more explicitly preach the Gospel, the more numerous

are my adversaries, and the more determined and inveterate

their hostility. My business is to examine myself thoroughly,

and to review the matter, in order to see whether the dislike
Iand opposition
                 meet with, arise from my real love of the

Gospel, and from wise exertions in the best of causes, or

whether self have not much to do in imposing upon me.

There is, however, one thing evidently taking place, at which

it is lawful for me to rejoice, and at which, therefore, I will

Irejoice; viz., that hear more and more, every year, of the

blessed effects of some of my labours. These smiles of the

Head of the Church, are, to my mind, by far the most delightful

things that I meet with in this world ; and I thank God, that

the effect which they seem to have on my mind, is to dispose

me to be more simple in my addresses, to use less disguise, and

to rely less on any human schemes or artifices for making the

Gospel more palatable. Such plans never answer : they do no

good at the time, and afterwards, the remembrance of them is

sure to prove either a burden, or a snare, or both, to the con

science. To live the life of the disciple of Christ, in all our

varied intercourse with men, and to act the faithful part, I find

& much harder task."

     To another friend, about the same time, the Dean writes,

" I have preached this day, and for nearly an hour. The sub
57(5 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JET AT. 63.

Iject was Demas forsaking Paul, through love of the world.

had intended to have been only half an hour, but somehow or
I Iother, could not help being so much longer.
wrong, and I suffer for it."                                  was certainly

Again he writes, " The Gospel certainly thrives here. Much
opposition, much indignation. I feel myself drawn out in

spirit to work. Oh ! that God would permit me to honour his

Icause a little before die !"

Such an aspiration surely proves that a radical change had

been wrought in the character of the man who had once

declared himself conscious, that no better motives had influ

enced his conduct than " pride, ambition, love of reputation,

hopes of advancement, and the prosjicct of much mental plea

sure in study*."

    In another letter written during this month, (August,) the

IDean thus writes ; " am admonished, every day, of my short

stay in this world, and it is my earnest desire to be as useful as
I can. The preaching of the word
I

                               a

                                       it

                                      iIs,

                                                                                      it
                                                   see plainly, as always

was, the great means used by God in bringing about conversions.

  have written good deal for the pulpit this summer."

    It may, here, be properly mentioned, that, besides writing
much " for the pulpit," was Dean Milner's practice, when at

Carlisle, to read, in the cathedral, every Sunday, and frequently

on the other days of the week, the early part of the Morning

Service. His general mode of reading was impressive beyond

that of any other person whom has ever fallen to my lot to
                                        it

                                                           ;

                                                    I
hear and as he had especially studied the Church Service, he
    ;
read     with extraordinary effect. Of the sentences at the
     it

;beginning of the Service, he always read the first and the last

two and, sometimes, added the ninth " will arise, &c."
His reading of the Exhortation, the Confession--which he
regarded as an epitome of Christian doctrine -- and the Absolu

tion, will never  btehaftorg"owttheenn  while any  of his hearers survive.
                                         the Dean  read, a pin might have
It was remarked,

been heard to fall in any part of the densely crowded cathe

dral." For part of the effect produced by his reading, he
         a

                  * Vide Chap. V.
   CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                                                    577

was, doubtless, indebted to his distinct utterance, his fine voice,

and his majestic presence ; but that effect was mainly attribut

able to the earnest sincerity which pervaded and characterized

his delivery of the solemn services of the Church.

An affection of the ancle, supposed, by himself, to be

originally caused by the bite of a gnat, now confined Dr.

Milner, for a fortnight, or nearly three weeks, to his sofa. A

horizontal position was strictly enjoined him; and the want

of the exercise which he had been accustomed to take, proved
very prejudicial. He usually took much more exercise than

most persons supposed him to take ; being in the habit, besides

his daily drive, of walking to and fro in his study, or, at Queen's

in the long gallery which led to while turning in his mind
         ;

                  it,
any subject that happened to engage his attention, or while

conversing with visitor. In this way he passed, upon an ave
   it a
rage, some hours every day and, doubtless, with great advan

tage to his health. In this practice he persevered till his last

illness nor was ever interrupted, unless by some accidental
;

occurrence like that above mentioned. Happily, no permanent

bad effects ensued from this  "locclaelarcoomffp" lahiins t"; and the Dean was
speedily enabled not only to                                  arrears of letters,"

but also to engage in a work which required him to enlarge his

already extensive correspondence.

Some friends of the Bible Society, rightly considering Dean

Milner, as one of the most able and zealous of its champions,

were exceedingly desirous to establish an Auxiliary Society in

the city of Carlisle. The Dean, as he had been at Cambridge,

was cautious; the sanguine proposers of the plan, perhaps,

thought him cold; but his caution was not the effect of luke-

warmness, or timidity; but of prudent regard for the real wel
   ;
        a
                                             a

                                                       ;
                                                                               2
                                                                                   p:
fare of the Society to be formed. He was anxious, before the

convening of public meeting, to secure the attendance, or, at

least, the favourable notice, of various persons of consideration

living in the neighbourhood of Carlisle, or otherwise connected

with the county of Cumberland and, with this view, he

addressed himself, successfully, by letter, to several influential
individuals among others, to the Duke of Norfolk, and to Lord

Morpeth. The latter nobleman thus wrote in reply
578 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. C3.

t' * * * rpQ t^e pr0p0Sai 0f forming a Society Auxiliary
Ito the British and Foreign Bible Society,
                                            certainly am deci

dedly friendly ; * * * * from a conviction that the prin

ciples declared and maintained by the British and Foreign Bible

Society tend to great practical advantage, by the enlargement

and diffusion of religious knowledge throughout the various

classes of the community.

   I" am not aware of any mode by which religious knowledge

can be more comprehensively, or more powerfully diffused, than

by the circulation of the Holy Scriptures ; and am convinced,

that in proportion to that circulation, the stock of public virtue

will be extended, and the sum of public happiness increased."
     On the 23rd of September, 1813, the first meeting of

the Carlisle Auxiliary Bible Society took place ; the Dean taking
the principal part in the proceedings. He addressed the

audience with much warmth and earnestness; and the effect

which his speeches invariably produced, was, perhaps, rather

heightened by the circumstance, that he did not, on this occa

sion, avail himself of the assistance of a written composition.
With the exception of a few sentences, at the close of his address,

previously written at length, he spoke from very brief notes.

He concluded thus;

   I"To all this, would add, that no power on earth shall

prevent me from rejoicing in the astonishing and united efforts

that have been made, and are making, to disseminate the Scrip
Itures.
         am deeply convinced, that in promoting this work of

distributing the Book of the Revelation of God among the poor

and needy, we are acting according to the will of our beneficent

ICreator. Here, therefore, repeat, is a case wherein our zeal
Icannot be slandered as being without knowledge ; and do not

doubt but that, with one voice, we shall resolve, not only, that,

with Joshua, 'we,' and those who belong to us, 'will serve the
Lord,' but also, that, to the utmost of our power, we will make

his commandments, as delivered in the Holy Scriptures, known

among all nations."

    It is scarcely necessary to say, that there were persons who

disapproved of the Dean's conduct on this occasion ; and among

these, was the late Bishop of Carlisle. However, though not,
              CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.            579

like the Dean, a friend to the Bible Society, the Bishop was,
personally, very sincerely attached to Dr. Milner ; and, while
differing from him in opinion, never failed to defend the motives

by which the Dean was actuated.

    This is acknowledged in the following note, dated " Septem

ber 25, X813."

" My dear Bishop,                                         Though

   " I trouble your Lordship with three little tracts,

they are now obsolete, they may serve to prove two things ;

    " 1st. That I can be in earnest without being abusive; and,

    " 2ndly. That having acted such a part, and having it in my

Ipower to appeal to such facts, ought not to be represented as

unfriendly either to the discipline or the doctrine of the estab

lishment. It is a real gratification to me to hear, from good

authority, that your Lordship always defends me from such

charges.
    " I cordially hate controversy ; and if I should now stop, it
Iwill not be because have it not in my power to strike a very
              *  ***
Iheavy blow.
                  " remain, my dear Bishop,
                             " Yours, very truly,

" To the Lord Bishop of Carlisle."             "Isaac Mi^neu.

The " three little tracts" mentioned in the foregoing note,

were, probably, the Animadversions upon (he Writings of Dr.

Haweis; a subsequent publication entitled Further Animadver

sions ; and either an account of the proceedings at the trial of

Mr. Frend ; or, more probably, the Reflections upon Ecclesiasti
cal Establishments, published by the Rev. Joseph Milner, as the

seventeenth chapter, of the second volume, of the History of

the Church of Christ, but written, almost entirely, by the

Dean.         Morpeth,  Dr.  Milner wrote  as  follows :  " Never in

     To Lord
Imy life was more at a loss than to account for the unwilling

ness of several persons in this kingdom to join with Dissenters
in a business of such vast importance, and one concerning which,

                                                                                   2 p2
580 CIlAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

Iwe all agree : for never, in my life, was clearer, than that our

harmonious meetings, in so good a cause, have a tendency to

lessen dissent."

Lord Morpeth became the Patron of the Carlisle Auxiliary

Bible Society, which, thus effectually established, gradually in
creased in influence and importance ; and upon his share in the

formation of which, Dean Milner, to the end of his life, " looked
back," as he said, "with solid satisfaction." In fact, his cordial

approbation of the Bible Society became evidently and continu
ally, stronger and stronger. Such, however, was his natural

disposition, and such his detestation of what he called " fending

and proving," that while he ranged himself, most decidedly and

openly, among its warmest advocates, he avoided fruitless dis

putation respecting it. Thus, to a nobleman of the highest con

sideration, who, soon after the Dean's appearance at the establish

ment of the Carlisle Society, had jocosely sent him a newspaper
containing an account of some untoward circumstances said to

"I Ihave occurred on a similar occasion at another place, he wrote
as follows ;      am quite sure, that, while most sincerely

recognise in your Lordship's sending me the inclosed account

of the ,          meeting, a mark of perfect good-humour, you

will, nevertheless, approve of my declining to enter into any

Idiscussion on the subject -- pretty well wearied as am with
talking about it--with writing a book also -- and with the not

altogether improbable prospect of having again for a few

moments to take up my cudgel against Dr. Marsh, who, I have

no scruple to say, has laid himself abundantly more open than
ever to several heavy blows*."

    To Lord Lonsdale, in a letter, dated " October 2d," Dr.

"IMilner thus alludes to the Bible Society.
           am sorry that they omitted, in the Carlisle paper of

ISaturday last, to mention what said at the meeting, viz., that

whatever Society distributed the pure Bible alone, had my heart

   · To another intimate friend, Dr.     Istill grosser errors. You will remem

I IMilner, about this time thus wrote :  ber that predicted to you, that the
                                         same intellect which had produced the
" am not sure that have done with        former errors, would not fail to pro
Dr. Marsh ; or thut it may not be ex
pedient for me to expose his new, and    duce fresh ones."
CITAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 03.                         581

Iwith them; and  wished them 'good luck in the name of the

Lord.' "

     In the course of the first week in November, Dr. Milner was
again settled in his " winter-hive at Queen's ; later, indeed, by

about a fortnight, than usual." His health, at this time, was

very indifferent ; but his spirits and mental energy were unim

paired. In proof of this, it may be mentioned, that during the

inclement weather of this term, he several times attended the

lectures of the late lamented Professor Tennant, then recently

appointed to the chemical chair ; and in Dr. Tennant's lecture-

room, as elsewhere, his vivacity of manner, rendered him

                 The observed of all observers.

The Rev. W. Whewell*, of Trinity, thus writes, " I saw Dr.

Milner at Professor Tennant's lecture-room, when he went to

witness the operation of the galvanic battery, when its powers

first excited astonishment. Dr. Milner took hold of the galva

nic wire, and the shock made him exclaim ; you may imagine

that his voice was not very feeble under such a sudden

impulse."
     An event, however, was impending, from the effects of

which, elastic as were Dr. Milner's spirits, he certainly never

completely recovered. His dear and excellent friend, Dr.
Jowett -- a friend with whom he had lived in habits of the closest
intimacy-- with whom he had regularly spent, when in the Uni

versity, two evenings in every week from the time of their
undergraduateship -- and whose society was endeared to him by
the coincidence of their religious views -- this invaluable friend

died suddenly, on the 13th of November, 1813.

The circumstances of his death are related in a very affecting
letter written by Dr. Milner, out of " the fulness of" his " heart,"
to the Rev. Josiah Pratt, and dated " Queen's Lodge, 14th
"INovember, 1813." This letter concludes as follows:
                                                          write

this with a most heavy heart. His relations, his friends, the

University, the religious world, will experience a heavy loss.

* Author of the History of the Inductive Sciences, &c, and now Master of
                               Trinity College, Cambridge.
582 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.

IFor more than forty years he and have spent together two

evenings in the week.
      my dear sir! I leave you to infer
"Oh,                                     the  rest.
" My  affectionate respects to Mrs. P.
                                                     "I. M."
                       "Yours,

     The decease of Dr. Jowett is inseparably associated, in the
minds of his surviving friends, with the second anniversary of
the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society. The last occupation
in which he was able to engage, was the drawing up of the
report which was read at the meeting of that society on the
18th of November, immediately before which meeting, his

remains, followed by the many distinguished persons who were
assembled to assist in the proceedings of the day, were com

mitted to the grave.

    "The remains of this good man," wrote Dr. Milner in a

short memoir, a part of which appeared, at the time, in the

Christian Observer, " were deposited in the College Chapel of
Trinity Hall, on the morning of the 18th of November, the

very day of the meeting of the members of the Auxiliary Bible
Society. His numerous relatives assembled from various parts
to attend his funeral, along with the members of his own col
lege, and many of his friends then resident in the University,

or met on occasion of the Society's anniversary ; and with great
truth it may be said, that an assemblage of so much sincere and
unaffected respect, of such profound sympathy, and even of
mournful regret for the loss sustained by those who survive this
excellent man, tempered, however, with a most entire conviction

that the awful change was, to himself, an unspeakable gain, is very
far from being an ordinary event in the history of funereal
sensibilities and attentions."

    Of the Report prepared by his departed friend in his last
hours, Dean Milner thus speaks: --

    " The Report itself is a specimen of that neat, perspicuous,
and forcible style, which characterized the compositions of Dr.
Jowett; and the preparation of it was the last of his public

services. He was looking forward to the approaching anni
versary with delight, because he knew that there would be, on
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.                             583

that clay, a most magnificent display of the successes of the
Bible Society. He himself loved his Bible, and being deeply
sensible of its worth, he was anxious for its dispersion, and
rejoiced in that extraordinary zeal and unanimity which have
constantly distinguished both the Parent Society and its
auxiliaries."

     The latter part of this beautiful tribute of affection from the

Dean to the memory of his deceased friend, contains, besides a
succinct account of the events of Dr. Jowett's academical and

professional life, many deeply touching passages. After speak

ing of the loss sustained by all the branches of the Jowett family

in the death of their excellent relative, Dean Milner thus alludes
to himself and his own feelings: --

    " It will easily be understood, that after the first effusions

of grief and surprise have subsided into a more sedate and

pensive state of the affections, thereis         perhaps, no individual
                                            is,
who will experience more substantial causes for painful and
melancholy reflection, than the writer of this memoir. The

recollection of what he has lost, and can never hope to recover,
will assuredly hang heavy on his mind as long as he lives. He
has reason to thank God, that he by no means without excel
lent friends --friends, too, of long and Med worth, who possess
large portions of his heart. But alas! he looks around in vain,

for any one to supply the place of Dr. Jowett, either by prox
imity of residence and facility of communication, or by similarity

of studies, and disencumbrance from domestic concerns. The

evils Unavoidably consequent upon his necessary habits of

retirement, were either removed, or very much lessened,  by  his

constant intercourse with his steady friend, always near, bene

volent, and communicative, the Professor of Civil Law. In

mathematical pursuits, and in subjects of natural philosophy,
these two friends, though of the same academical year, and for
some time likely to have been competitors for the university

honours at degree time, constantly read together, afforded

mutual assistance to each other, and always reciprocally com

municated their respective progress without the least reserve or

jealousy."           in very high  terms  of the " great ability and
     After speaking
584 CHAP XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

exemplary    assiduity" displayed by Dr. Jowett     in   the perform
ance of his  duties as professor of civil law, and  of
                                                        " the extreme

facility and classical purity with which he was accustomed to

deliver his observations in Latin," as well as of his "profound
knowledge of divinity," and " extraordinary acquaintance with
the several parts of Holy Writ," Dr. Milner thus proceeds: --

    "The influence of Dr. Jowett, considered as a religious

character, was by no means confined to his speculations in the

closet. He exemplified the Christian character throughout the
whole of his conduct. It is well known, that the tender con

sciences of pious young persons, who have had the benefit of a
religious education, are often treated with contempt and ridi

cule, and that their zeal in the cause of religion, however unex

ceptionable in its operations and effects, is exposed to the

misrepresentation, obloquy, and persecution of the profane and
ungodly. Now it is here, that the deceased Professor, by his

rank, his learning, and his moderation, and by his firmness and

counsel, proved, in many instances, an admirable support to the

oppressed, and a shield against the oppressor. Who dared to

ridicule the preacher to whose discourses Dr. Jowett was fre

quently known to listen? And how often has the modest,

diffident youth, when derided by his companions for being over

religious, silenced their profane reproaches by appealing to the

example of Dr. Jowett! How often have both young graduates

and undergraduates, of a pious turn of mind, been kindly taken

by the hand, and directed and supported in their Christian

course by the same judicious and excellent person ! This part

of his character may not be very generally known, but those

             a

                 it,
who did know know, also, how extensively useful the patron
age of such man as the late Regius Professor of Civil Law,

proved, in the University of Cambridge, in this very respect."

*                     *  *  *                           *

         .

           *

    " The great talents of Dr. Jowett enabled him to go througha
much business with little comparative labour. His temper wasa

naturally cheerful and lively, and his passions were. at all times
obedient to systematic discipline. His own internal resources
were so abundant, that his spirits were rarely known to flag; he
was not only person of excellent health, but one who pos
                        CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 6?.                   585

sessed many of the very best preservatives of health, viz., a

natural serenity of mind, supported and improved by a good

conscience, and a steady hope and prospect of eternal happiness,
founded on the divine promises in Christ Jesus; and these
superior principles by no means excluded from his mind an
extraordinary relish for many innocent and rational enjoyments
of an inferior value. Often he regaled his senses in admiring

the beauties of nature, but oftener refreshed his intellectual

faculties by perusing the best compositions both in prose and
verse. He was passionately fond of music, and a warm admirer
of the finest productions of the great masters in painting and
architecture. Long indeed, will this great and good character
be remembered in the University of Cambridge, which for so

many years has reaped the benefit of his uninterrupted resid
ence. * * * On the whole, though we are bound to allow,

that so learned and respectable a body as the University of

JCambridge can have no difficulty in supplying the place of Dr.
  owett, yet, at the same time, we believe it must be confessed,
that this excellent person will seldom be surpassed in the

essential qualifications of learning, wisdom, piety, and sound
principles of every kind."

     The above extracts sufficiently manifest the estimate which
Dr. Milner had formed of the character of his departed friend,
and the affection which he bore him; and it could not be other

wise than that he should deeply and permanently deplore the
event which terminated, as it respects this world, their long and

intimate connexion.
             17th of November, he thus wrote to Mr. Kerrich: --
"    On the
   Our poor  deceased friend is to be interred to-morrow morning

between eight and nine o'clock, and afterwards there is to be

Ithe"anncivaenrnsoatry    meeting   of  the Bible    Society.   at either  one  or
                        summon     up   spirits to  be present

the other of these scenes."

     However, though unable to attend the meeting in person,
Dr. Milner took effectual care, that his absence should not

be construed into a symptom of declining zeal for the cause.

He addressed a letter, from which the following extracts are

taken,
586 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.

"To the Chairman of the Meeting of the Auxiliary
             "Bible Society at Cambridge.

"Sir,                                       " Queen's College Lodge,

                                              18<A November, 1813.
K It is to me a great mortification, that I find it impossible

to attend the anniversary of our Auxiliary Bible Society.

    "At our last meeting for this purpose, I publicly declared,

that, after a residence of more than forty years in this University,

and, of course, after having attended many public meetings,

there was no one upon which I reflected with so

MUCH SINCERE AND SOLID SATISFACTION AS UPON THAT

WHICH TOOK TLACE HERE FOR THE FORMATION OF AN
Auxiliary Bible Society, in December, 1811, and which
Iwas then the object of our commemoration.
                                                               allow, Sir,

that the sentiments of an individual like myself, can be of

very little consequence, especially in a case where the general

opinion has heen so unequivocally expressed; nevertheless, as

Iwe have been lately told (with abundantly more confidence,

trust, than accuracy of statement), that men of calm under

standing, who are open to conviction, become daily more

sensible, that the good done by the Bible Society is attended

Iwith an alarming drawback, there can, hope, be no impro

priety in my requesting you, Sir, as Chairman, briefly to signify

to our numerous friends, that, though unwillingly compelled to be

absent on this occasion, my attachment to the good cause remains

as firm and unshaken, and as warm as it was on the memorable

12th of December, 1811, when, with my Lord Hardwicke* in

the chair, the Cambridge Auxiliary Bible Society was first
formed with so much harmony, and so universal a concurrence.

' * Lord Hardwicke, who had heen            ciety, and for the ability with which

requested by Dr. Jowett, a very few         you have defended; cannot help
                                                       a
days before his death, to he the Chair
                                                       iIt,
                                            thinking, that the greater share of in

man at this second Cambridge Anni           genuity belongs to those who disco

versary Meeting, had written to Dr.         vered that such question could have

Milner to explain the causes of his         two sides and that any arguments
                                            could be urged against a Society of
inahility to comply with the request.
His letter contains
sage : " "With all     the following  pas   which the plain and simple object was
                     my respect for    the  to extend the circulation of the Holy

motives which induced you to take up        Scriptures,"
your pen iu defence of the Bible So
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. .STAT. 63.  587

    " How it should have happened, that our steadiness and

perseverance in the simple distribution of the Bible, should
have exposed any of us to the charge of being ' fiery zealots/
or ' determined partisans,' exceeds my comprehension. Yet, in
opposition to this representation, we are also told that ' the

enthusiasm of our Society has manifestly abated/ Now if the

Iterm ' enthusiasm' is to be taken here, as suppose, in a bad
sense, I would certainly exclaim, 'So much the better:' but if

by enthusiasm we are to understand a laudable zeal in the good

cause in which the friends of the Bible Society are embarked,
one may surely ask by what sort of logic it is to be proved that

our zeal abates, when the natural operations and effects of zeal

daily increase and strengthen ? More than seventy new

societies auxiliary to the Bible Society have been formed in the
course of the last year ; can it then be justly inferred, that the

Parent Society is in a state of declension and decay ?

    "No, assuredly; the Bible Society is an institution which

continues to be the object of the affection and admiration of all

impartial persons who have duly Weighed its tendencies, the
means which it employs, and the blessed effects which it is

calculated to produce.

    " There is, however, no denying, that in its progress it has

met with some difficulties; there is no denying, that in the

general harmony a few discordant notes have been heard ; yet

Iin' spite of these, the friends of the Society will, doubt not,

this day have occasion most cordially to congratulate them

selves and one another, that this Cambridge Auxiliary Society

was formed two years ago. It has been attended with the

most beneficial consequences, and the Parent Society, with all

its auxiliary appendages, is found to be at this moment an

engine in full movement and prosperous operation, and of
immense importance for the propagation of Christian truth.

    "Mr. Chairman,--The consideration of the late sudden

loss of one of my most intimate friends, who was himself a

most zealous and useful supporter of our Society, hangs heavy

on my mind. The awful event has taken place at a time when
my feeble frame is ill able to sustain so severe an affliction, and

I feel it absolutely impoasible to appear in public a.% an hour
588 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

Iwhen, in addition to my bodily infirmities, have to support

the melancholy reflection, that the last duties to my highly
respected friend, the companion and joy of my youth, and the
cheerful support and solace of my declining years, are, at this

instant, scarcely concluded.

    " Every one will understand me to speak of our late
eminent Professor of Civil Law, the Rev. Dr. Jowett. Per

fectly orthodox in his religious sentiments, uncommonly
powerful in the knowledge of the Scriptures, calm and sedate
in the investigation and exposition of their meaning, he was an
inestimable friend to the Established Church ; at the same

time that he constantly exercised a most exemplary Christian
charity towards persons belonging to other religious commu
nities. The University of Cambridge will long have cause to
lament the premature decease of one of its most learned and

upright members.

    " In the midst of these melancholy reflections, my heart

finds a considerable relief in contemplating that harvest of
Christian knowledge, which, from the united efforts of good
men of all Christian persuasions for the dispersion of the
Bible, is fast ripening ; and most particularly from that well-
tempered zeal for the success of this great object, which has
appeared in many parts of the kingdom among young persons.

II certainly do not go too far when express a serious doubt,

whether, exclusively of the exertions of the younger part of the
members of this University, there would have existed at this
moment any Auxiliary Bible Society in Cambridge. The
sound of their praise has gone forth into numerous towns and

districts, and has animated many other excellent young persons

with a similar ardent zeal for the dissemination of the Holy

Scriptures.
I" Sir,
             conceive it therefore to be impossible, that pious

characters who are now pretty well advanced in life, should not

derive solid consolation from the reflection, that when they

themselves shall be no more, they will leave numerous persons
in the vigour of life who will be active in spreading the Word

of God.

   " Often have I heard my deceased friend, the Professor
CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.  589

of Civil Law, dwell upon this consideration with peculiar
delight.

    " When it is suggested by our adversaries that our enthu

siasm is abated, our answer may fairly be, that the ' wish' of the

»+****heart is probably * father to that thought/
   I" conclude, Sir, with sincere prayers and fervent wishes

for the prosperity of a Society which I cannot conceive to be

acting otherwise than according to the Divine will in dispersing
a book which contains the best rules for our conduct in this
world, is to be our comfort in death, and the foundation of all

our hopes in the world to come.

                           " I am, Sir,

                                         " Your obedient servant,
                                                    " Isaac Milner."

     The expressions of applause usual on such occasions were,
throughout the whole of the proceedings of this day, silenced
by the solemnity of feeling which, in consequence of the
decease of Dr. Jowett, pervaded every heart in the numerous

assembly.

     To write the above letter was, under the existing circum
stances, no small effort. Those who best knew the extreme
sensitiveness of Dr. Milner's temperament, were apprehensive
that he would be entirely overwhelmed by the sudden loss of
his dear and intimate friend; and had he suffered himself to

brood, in solitary inaction, over the affliction which had befallen
him, this would, doubtless, have been the case. Happily,
however, his settled habits of vigorous employment became
his safeguard; and although it is probable, that, subsequent to
the death of Dr. Jowett, not a single day passed during which
his mind was not more or less occupied by reflections on the
loss which he had sustained, he had the resolution to refrain

from indulging in " the selfish luxury of sorrow."

     One of his occupations at this period, was a correspondence
relative to the publication of a new and improved edition of
some portions of the works of Euler.

   J.About this time, the Rev. H. Michell, who had formerly

communicated to Dr. Milner, anonymously, a beautiful monu
590 CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. JETAT. 63.

mental inscription to the memory of Joseph Milner, his
deceased brother*, sent him an elegant composition, of a
similar nature, in memory of their common friend Dr. Jowett.

Mr. Michell's pious and affectionate letter thus concludes: --
     " Accept my most affectionate wishes, dear Sir, for the

re-establishment of your health, in which so many are inter

ested, and for every other blessing that a gracious God can

bestow upon his people."

     The concluding sentences of a document in Dean Milner's
handwriting, constituting the Rev. R. Goodenough his proxy

at the November chapter of this year, relating, as they do, to a

subject of great interest, may be properly inserted here. They
     as follows:--
are  " And further,             I

                     as  Dean,     request   Mr. R.  Goodenough  to

express my cordial assent to a subscription of fifty guineas for

Ithe new school. At the same time request Mr. Goodenough,

as my proxy at this chapter, distinctly to mention to such

members as are present, that the Dean reserves to himself the
full right of acting according to his own conviction, if ever the

question should be moved, whether, on the application of a

dissenting parent or guardian, the child of such parent or

guardian should be allowed to go to his own place of worship

on the Sabbath day; it being the Dean's decided opinion, that

the child of such dissenting parent or guardian should be per

mitted to do so, precisely according to the practice of the Great

Central School in London."

     Although exceedingly cautious, as has been already inti
mated, in the matter of giving testimonials, Dr. Milner was

always ready to do this kindness when he could do it con

scientiously. Several instances in which his recommendation

was effectual in procuring preferment or other advantages for
young men of good attainments and exemplary conduct,

occurred about this time. The conclusion of a letter written

to the Bishop of Norwich at the instance of an excellent

clergyman, anxious for the ordination of his son, will be read

with interest.

                         * Vide Chapter IX.
      CHAP. XXV. A.D. 1813. jETAT. 63.                   591

"Mr.  seems exceedingly desirous that his son

should be introduced, by me, to your Lordship's notice.

      Multa qnidem dixi cur excusatus abirem ;

Istrongly urging, that scarcely had been myself introduced to

y-QU, and that, only, as it were, accidentally, at the installation
****#*of our Chancellor, and that his son's best introduction would,
I Idoubtless, be his own good qualifications.
      could answer,

said, for the father, but that virtues were not always hereditary.

    " The truly Christian sentiments publicly avowed by your

Lordship relative to the Bible Sqciety, warm my heart, shattered

as I am by many infirmities, with an inexpressible glow of

satisfaction.

                            " I am, my Lord Bishop,
                   " With the truest respect and esteem,

                                " Your Lordship's obedient servant,

                                                  "Isaac Milker.

" To the Lord Bishop of Norwich."

     The December meeting of the Board of Longitude called
Dr. Milner to London early in the month of December ; and
this busy year terminated with a quiet visit, of somewhat longer
duration than usual, to the family of his friend, at Kensington

Gore.
                                                   592

                         CHAPTER XXVI.

Feelings on the loss of Dr. Jowett. --Society of Dr. Buchanan. --Professor
      Lee.--Dr. Milner becomes a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. --
       Recollections of a second visit at Queen's Lodge by the Right Hon.
      T. B. Macaulay. --Luther. --Melancthon. --Declining Health. --Occupations
      and Studies. --Opinion of Physicians. -- Family Worship. --Expositions of
      Scripture. -- Letter from a Clergyman containing a remarkable account of
      his Religious Experience. --Rev. Joseph Milner's observations on a case
      of sudden Conversion. -- Dean Milner's Letter to the Chairman of the
      First Anniversary Meeting of the Carlisle Auxiliary Bible Society.--
       Detained at Carlisle through the winter. -- Letter intended to be read at
      the formation of an Auxiliary Church Missionary Society at Cambridge. --
      Sentiments respecting the management of the Church Missionary Society.--
      Letters. --Democratic Spirit prevalent at Carlisle. --Establishment of The
      Patriot Newspaper. --Correspondence with the Archbishop of York on the
      death of his daughter. --Contributions to The Patriot. --Maps.--Philoso
       phical Apparatus. --Testimonial. -- Grammar School at Leeds. -- Hints for
      the conducting of a Grammar School. --Second Letter from a Clergyman,
      with further account of his Religious Experience and Conduct. -- Extracts
       from Religious Correspondence.

                                A.D. 1814. JETAT. 64.

The new year brought along with it its usual occupations;

but although Dr. Milner, both from principle and from habit,
acquitted himself of his duties with his accustomed energy, the
loss of his friend Dr. Jowett, "hung very heavily" upon his
mind. Each recurring Thursday and Sunday evening, neces
sarily recalled his thoughts to the irreparable calamity with
which he had been visited. The sound of the nine o'clock bell
of St. Mary's, which, for years past, had, on those evenings, regu
larly called him out of his study into the adjoining gallery, to
watch for the approach, or in winter to listen for the sound of
the footsteps or the voice of his friend, whose arrival he used
to hail with a sonorous and joyous welcome, was now become
a mournful sound, fraught with melancholy recollections. But
besides the social intercourse maintained between these long-
tried and constant companions, by means of these stated and
frequently recurring visits, Dr. Jowett had been, in a great
measure, the connecting link between Dean Milner and his
cotemporaries in the University. To Dr. Jowett the Dean
            CHAP. XXVI. A.I). 1814. JETAT. fii.      5D3

looked to put him, in his retirement, au courant dujour. Other

old and valued friends, doubtless, he possessed ; but of these,

some were men having families, and, of course, separate and
engrossing objects of interest; others were fully engaged by
their academical or other duties. Dr. Jowett, alone, was to him

as a brother. Having a large acquaintance, and sufficient

leisure --being unshackled by domestic ties --of active mind--
of a most communicative disposition--entirely agreeing with
Dean Milner in his religious views --and bound to him by long
and dear habit--the loss of such a friend, in the decline of life,

was indeed irreparable !

    In a letter to his valued friend Mr. La Trobe, the survivor
thus alludes to this melancholy subject :--

" It would              " Queen's College Lodge, Jan. 17, 1814.

            be lost time to attempt to describe either your

feelings or mine. To me, the loss is irreparable. The world

Iwill never look like itself again. It is true am in the Univer
Isity ; but since he is gone, might as well be in a cave."

     The  society of the Rev. Claudius Buchanan, at this time
resident  in Queen's College, proved a great comfort to Dean
Milner.    Dr. Buchanan, who was in feeble health, and much

occupied in superintending the translation of the New Testa
ment into the Syriac language, lived much alone ; but it would

have been extraordinary if two such persons as he and the Dean

of Carlisle, living within a few paces of each other, and united by
mutual esteem and cordial agreement of sentiment on the most

important subjects, had not been induced to seek each other's
company. Accordingly, Dr. Buchanan often came to the Lodge

in the long winter afternoons ; and when the conversation did
not turn on more serious topics, entertained Dr. Milner by
recounting, by no other light than that of a blazing fire, some of

the more remarkable of his adventures.

    In addition to his labours in the Syriac translation, Dr.

Buchanan was, at this period, occupied by the composition of a
Charge, which, at the request of the Church Missionary Society,
was to be delivered to certain Clergymen of the Established

Church, about to proceed as Missionaries to the Island of

                                                 2Q
594 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. MTAT, 64.

Ceylon, and the eastern coast of the Peninsula of India. Dr.

Milner, whose attention, about this time, was much turned tq

the subject of missions, was greatly interested in this composi

tion ; which, at the author's  request, he  perused   with  a  v"ieDweatno
the suggesting of any hints    that might   occur to  him.

Milner," wrote Dr. Buchanan to the Rev. Mr. Pratt, early in

the month of January, "approves of the passage in my Charge

Iupon denying Christ ; but do not know what others may think

of it*."

Another subject, concerning which Dean Milner and Dr.

Buchanan were mutually interested, was the admission at

Queen's College, of Mr. Lee, " the Shrewsbury Linguistf."

To assist, to the utmost of his power, persons of real merit,

was Dr. Mil tier's constant practice; and he, consequently,

exerted himself,  with great energy  and effect, in behalf of Mr.
                  merits," he wrote  to his friend Mr. Kerrich,
Lee. " Of his
I" (here is not the smallest question -- mean, of his most extra

ordinary merits. Where such another instance is to be found,

I absolutely know not." Professor Lee, himself, thus writes ;
" I need not tell you, that I always found Dr. Milner most

exceedingly kind. He was so good as to allow me to take out
of Queen's Library any books I might want, in his name -- a
Ifavour, at that time, of great value to me.
                                              shall never cease

to venerate his memory. The interest, too, with which he pro

secuted theological inquiries--and on such subjects we often had

much discussion -- proved to me a most valuable stimulant ; as

did his caution and rare judgment in coming to any conclusion,

a most excellent example."

     Such was the nature of the private and unostentatious, but
often invaluable kindness, which Dr. Milner was ever ready to

afford to those whose welfare and success he was desirous to

promote.

    A letter to the Bishop of Carlisle, dated " 13th of February,

1814," alludes to the circumstance of Dean Milner's becoming

                            * Vide Life of Dr. Buchanan, vol. ii.
+ Formerly Professor of Arabic, and now Professor of Hebrew, in the Univer

                                              sity of Cambridge,
             CHAP. XXVI. AJ>. 1814. jETAT. (M.                          595

a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. " Some worthy and

intelligent friends of mine," writes the Dean, "have expressed a
Iwish, that
             should become a member of the Antiquarian

Society." He goes on    to request the bishop,  who was himself,
                        name to the necessary   certificate."
F.A.S., "to put" his "

To the same effect he wrote to his friend Sir Joseph Banks ;

and accordingly, at the first meeting of the Society of Antiqua

ries, in the ensuing month of March, he was " duly elected a

fellow of that learned body," and attended at the following

meeting, in accordance with the statutes of the Society, " in

order to be admitted in due form."

    The "worthy and intelligent friend," who most especially
desired that Dean Milner should become a member of this

Society, was the Rev. Thomas Kerrich ; and an earnest wish to

gratify this old and valued friend was, probably, the principal

motive which induced the Dean to take measures for that

purpose. In illustration, however, of the truth of a remark
which Dr. Milner was often heard to make, and which he used

particularly to press upon the attention of young persons, viz.,
that there is no pursuit, however foreign it may seem to previous
or customary studies, or even to natural taste, which will not

become interesting if heartily entered upon -- it may be men

tioned, that lie speedily became really anxious for the arrival
of the papers published by the Society of Antiquaries, to which,
as a Fellow, he was entitled, read them with increasing interest,

and much gratified his friend Mr. Kerrich by observing, that he
really considered his " heavy admission fees well spent."

     The month of April, in the year 1814, was a season of

national rejoicing, and no one, certainly, participated more

heaitily than Dean Milner in the general exultation.
     The Right Honourable T. B. Macaulay thus speaks* of a

visit to Queen's Lodge at this period.

    "In 1814, Dr. Milner again insisted on my passing the

Easter holidays with him ; and he was, if possible, kinder than
before. It was a time not to be forgotten by the youngest who

were able to comprehend the signs of public joy. The news of

· In a letter, for the early part of which see Chap. XXV., p. 560.
                                                                  2 q2
596 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. jETAT. 64.

the fall of Paris, and of the abdication of Napoleon, arrived, I
Ithink, on the very day on which went on my second visit to

the Lodge of Queen's College. Cambridge was illuminated ;

Iand my kind old friend was divided between his wish that

should see the shew, and his fear that I might come to some

harm in the crowd. He sent me out with all sorts of precau

tions, and told me, afterwards, that he could not compose him

Iself to sleep till he knew that was safe at home. In general

this visit resembled the last, except that, as was natural at such

a season, he talked much more of history and politics, than of

natural science. One story which he told at breakfast, over his

great bowl of milk, I well remember. ' The first time,' he said,
II' that ever heard about war or the French, was when was a
little child in London. I was taken out of bed late at night, and

carried to the window. All the street was alive, though it was
midnight. The watchman was calling ' Past twelve o'clock--

Quebec taken.' The news came late; and the Lord Mayor

had given orders that the watchmen should cry with theI

hour, all through the city*.                              it,

    " He talked of the bearing of the recent events upon religion
-- of the restoration of the Pope -- of the suppression of the

order of Jesuits, and of the probability of its revival. Then he

went back to the Reformation, and found me, for my age, an

intelligent listener for had lately been reading his history of
                          is ;
that time, and Robertson's Charles the Fifth.  ventured to say
                              II
some hard things of Luther, which he pronounced to be mostI

unjust; and took down from his bookcase some letters of

Melancthon, in order to set me right. He was very severe on

Erasmus, though the most distinguished ornament of his own

College. He said, 'We have no relique of him at Queen's

except huge cork-screwt; and am afraid that there was
'
nothing in his principles to keep him from making very assidu
  t
ous "uSseooonf     it.'   this  visit  quitted the neighbourhood of Cam-
                a  after

   * See Chap. I., p. 4.                 Rooms, as being " about a third ofa
       This cork-screw mentioned by
                                         yard long." Vide Life of Dr. Bucha
Dr. Buchanan, who, in his last visit to  nan, vol. ii.

Queen's College, inhabited Erasmus's
CHAP. XXVI. A.I>. 1814. JETAT. C4.      597

Ibridge, and some years elapsed before  saw the Dean

again."
      The remainder of this most interesting letter relates to the

last two years of Dean Milner's life.
     The state of the Dean's health was now such as to excite

much anxiety in the minds of his friends ; and their fears were
but too well founded. Dr. Milner's bodily frame, which, during
the preceding forty years had received and withstood so many
severe shocks, now began visibly to give way. He was, per

haps, less subject than at some former periods to violent attacks
of head-ache or other diseases, but there were symptoms of
gradual decay: decay, however, of bodily faculties, only; his
mental powers were clear and vigorous as ever. He was ever
ready to help those who applied to him for assistance in their
philosophical studies ; and if a really promising student requested
his aid, his genuine love of mathematical investigation never
failed to appear in its full force, together with powers of expla
nation, perhaps unrivalled. He still regarded it as a part of his
daily duty, to read, and to collect materials, with a view to the
continuation of the History of the Church of Christ; but his
purely voluntary studies were, now, chiefly, of a strictly religious
nature. And as the interests of eternity formed the leading
subject which occupied his own thoughts ; so did they likewise
form the topic upon which he most delighted to hold communi

cation with others. In particular, he rejoiced to be made

acquainted with any instance in which his own labours or those
of his deceased brother had been evidently blessed. "Such
communications," he used to say, were "the cordials of" his

"old age."
    The June meeting of the Board of Longitude called Dr.

Milner, as usual, to London ; thus affording him an opportunity
of consulting the first physicians of the day concerning the
state of his health. Their report was, as he wrote to a friend,

" No danger --this with the greatest confidence -- no internal

organic mischief."
     Somewhat reassured by these favourable opinions of physi

cians of eminence who had long been acquainted with his

constitution, he returned to Cambridge; and soon afterwards
593 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. JETAT. 64.

set forth upon his summer journey to Carlisle, where he pur
posed to remain during his usual period of residence ; but where
ill-health detained him nearly two years.

     Dean Milner was now less able than formerly to undertake
any public duty. There remained, however, one mode in which
it was still in his power to render effectual service to the causa
nearest to his heart. His private expositions of Scripture in
the daily course of family prayer, a practice which it is quite
needless to say, he never, on any account whatever, voluntarily
omitted, had long been remarkable for their singular excellence;
and it had been his custom occasionally to admit, one or more
of his intimate friends to his domestic worship, as well as, from
time to time, either at home, or at the house of some religious
acquaintance, to expound some passage of the Old or New Tes
tament, for the benefit of those assembled.

     Of these means of doing service to the cause of religion, the
Dean now frequently availed himself. Many persons still living
doubtless remember some of these domestic expositions. The
deep insight which Dean Milner possessed into the nature and
scheme of Christianity, together with his luminous mode of

expression, and the genuine sincerity and earnestness which
pervaded his addresses to the small company of his hearers on
these occasions, combined to preclude the possibility of their
being easily forgotten.

     In these little friendly meetings, Dr. Milner was always

ready and willing to expound any passage concerning which he
might be requested to give his thoughts, but there were portions
of Scripture upon which his own choice frequently fell. Among
these were the first psalm, the sermon on the mount, and parts
of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth chapters of the Epistle to

the Romans. It should be added, that he occasionally chose

for the subject of his exposition the Confession of our Church*,
a composition which he regarded as among the most excellent
 of uninspired writings.

     To prevent misapprehension, it is proper to observe, that
although so ready to give private expositions of Scripture, on

                                 · See Chapter XXX.
                   CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. jETAT. 64.

proper occasions, and when the persons assembled were pre
pared for what was to take place, Dean Milner altogether dis
approved of what he considered the irreverent introduction of
the Bible and of religious exhortation in large and promiscuous
parties, when the previous tone of conversation had, perhaps,
formed a very unfit introduction to sacred employments.

     The Dean had not been long at Carlisle, before he received
the following letter.

"Reverend Sir,                                            "June 29th, 1814.
I" take the liberty of recording a marvellous work of grace

upon my soul, which, as your labours have in a good measure

contributed toit,I         may tend to the consolation of your age, and

to your encouragement in publishing more of your brother's

Sermons, which speak the decided language of the second

volume.

"Educated at Christ's College, Cambridge,                          took the
                                         I
                                             I
                                                   I
degree of                  in 1789, and entered holy orders in the

Christmas following, under a persuasion that had as good                   a

call from the Holy Ghost to enter the ministry as any of my
Christian brethren. From 1791 to 1800, was curate of

near        and obtained pretty high character for zeal and
         ,                 a

diligence, but was full of darkness, worldliness, and self-suffi

ciency. S. of              was then much abused, and used to con
                                   by

                                             I
sider him as being irregular, and of course could not relish his

views whilst held justification          faith and works, and

admired Seeker, Home, Jones, and Bishop Wilson, above all

other writers.   it, ?' Iwas quite sound in the doctrine of the Trinity,
                      .
though attempts were made to shake me. S. used to call now

and then, perhaps twice or thrice during the latter part of my

residence at               Once said to him, 'Amidst the variety of
                           OI
opinions and judgments, that could learn the mind of God
                                I
in the Holy Scriptures! Do you know any book that could
                                     II
help"  me In this             He said he thought he did,  but      passed  off.
          came to        this parish shortly after, and     sent   me the  first
I                                                       S.
                                                               it

volume of your brother's Sermons.        read your life of him,

and admired              but could not understand the alteration that

had taken place in his views. Yet made profitable use of
                                         a
coo CHAP. XXVI. A D. 1814. JETAT. 64.

the letter on resignation, in endeavouring to console a friend in
Idistress.
Iation.       preached some of the sermons with but little alter
           told S. that I thought your brother was better

acquainted with the human heart than any writer of my ac

Iquaintance. Shortly after, from reading Cooper's Sermons,

and the Christian Observer, was enabled to give full assent to

the doctrine of justification by faith, Ias heard you once defend

I, it,    in the divinity schools, in my first year of residence at the
      University. But this doctrine was not applied to my heart, for

         some years after, became more worldly, sensual, and remiss in
      duty, than at any other period of my life. Yet by lending your

brother's first volume at that time to person about to take
                          I
orders, and also Cooper's Sermons, and by my conversation,     it I
                                        a
                                                      a
      believe was enabled to be serviceable to one now eminent for
        I

his usefulness in the Church. Soon after S. sent me the second

volume of Milner's Sermons. From this time (about 1807) to
Easter-week 1814, the leaves of this second volume remained,
most of them, uncut! Yet was fair professor, well acquainted
with Dr. Jowett and some other religious characters, but sink

ing deeper and deeper in sloth, carnality, and guilt, when
pleased the Lord to bring home my sins in all their aggravation

to my soul last Passion-week, and on the Easter Sunday follow

ing to give me assurance of forgiveness through faith in Christ,

      and to shed abroad in my heart, through the Spirit, such measures

of love, joy, and peace, that for two or three days and nights was
                                                         I

in raptures.  spiritual discernment of Scripture texts relative
              aA

                    I
to Christ's little flock, and the doctrines of grace, of whichI

had ever been decided opposer, was vouchsafed, all at once.

In that state of mind thought too delightful an employment
                          it

for my feelings to read the Scriptures, but contented myself
with perusing, for the first time, your brother's second volume

of Sermons, where found experience so suited to my own,
        it

                       a

                      I
      that afforded me inexpressible satisfaction.

          " What an interval! From Christmas 1789, to Easter 1814,

to continue   blind guide, and at last to be enlightened and

awakened! How marvellous this grace to my soul!

    " Your brother's writings are dear to me above those of all

other modern evangelical authors.
             CHAP. XXVI. A.P. 1814. JETAT. 64/                                             601

" I have a wife and ten children, and I trust that a work of

grace is begun and advancing in two of my elder sons, in con

sequence of my domestic ministry, for on Easter Sunday
evening, I, for the first time, began extempore exposition and
Iprayer. Before this used forms of prayer, and Doddridge or
IOrton.
             am now reading the Church History with great
relish. * * * *
    " May years of comfort and health be added to your life, for

the good of the Church.
" This
         is  the  earnest  p"raYyoeruroff,aidtheafur l  Sir,
                                                        humble
                                                                servant,                   »

                                                                't

" The Very Reverend the Dean of Carlisle."

Those persons who have read a tract entitled Some

remarkable Passages in the Life of William Howard, pub

lished in the eighth volume of Milner's Works, will scarcely

fail, on reading certain portions of the foregoing letter, to call

to mind some observations of Joseph Milner contained in a
                      the tract in question. " There
note  appended to     man, " to be some objection to            may seem,"
says  that excellent                                            the publica

tion of such strong expressions as these. It may be asked, do

they not savour of enthusiasm? and will they not disgust seve

ral readers? The answera   historical veracity forbids the sup
                                       a

                                              is,
                                                             a
                                                                                       it
pression of them --the case of William Howard would then be

fictitious one. Further, take particular notice of the circum

stances under which they were published, even at first; viz.

not soon after Mr. Howard had used those expressions, but

many years after, when he was tried character, and proved to

be an eminent Christian. This makes an immense difference.

With that circumstance in view, who can venture to say, that
the man was under delusion? Who can limit the degree of

evidence with which the Spirit of God may be pleased to attend

his own work on the human mind?" The truth and reasonable

ness of these remarks will not be questioned, and were com

patible with the regard due to the feelings of survivors, reason

ing, in the main similar, might now be applied to the case

described in the above remarkable letter. The writer of that
602 fcHAP. XXVI. A:D. 1814. .STAT. 84.

              lfiovrinmg,an"ya

                                                                        it,
                                                                             if,
letted lived                   years after the writing of                        indeed, he
be not still                                                                    Christian,"
                               tried character," " an eminent

and as such was subsequently known to Dr. Milner.

Few circumstances connected with the state of his health

gave Dean Milner more uneasiness than the being prevented

from attending the first anniversary meeting of the Carlisle

Auxiliary Bible Society, which took place on the 23rd of Sep

tember.

But although unable to be personally present, the Dean took

the most effectual means within his power to prevent his

unavoidable absence from being prejudicial to the interests of

the society, by writing to the chairman a truly admirable and

warm-hearted letter, with view to its being read at the meet
is it *
ing. From this letter some extracts are here subjoined.
     is
"to the ciiairman of tub carlisle auxiliary
            aI                 Bible Society.

                             it a              " Deanery, Carlisle,

                         I is itMr. Chairman,  "September 23, 1814.
                                                    aa
                                                           a
                                                                        a
                                                           I
                                                                                                    a
                                                            II
                                                                                                                        a
'"'Among the various disappointments and trials which my

mind has experienced during protracted illness of more than

six months, esteem no trifling mortification, that should

thereby be prevented from being present at the first Anniversary

Meeting of the Carlisle Auxiliary Bible Society. For though

my great satisfaction to find, that the efforts of the Society

have been attended with        success much beyond the most

sanguine expectations of our friends and well-wishers, yet, in
meeting together on laudable occasion like the present, there

something so peculiarly grateful to one's best feelings, some

thing so cheering and auspicious to the good cause in which we

are embarked, that             impossible for me not to lament an

absence which deprives me of being personal spectator of so

interesting scene. Instead of being on the spot, witness of

the good sense, zeal, and animation with which, doubt not,

this admirable institution will, this day, be supported,                          must

be content with hearing only, or reading an account of those

proceedings in which           myself had hoped to become

partaker.
CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. jETAT. 64.  603

" Let no one, however, Iin what now say, suppose me to

make the least allusion to any loss which the Society may be

conceived to sustain on the account of my personal absence

from this Anniversary Meeting. No. It is simply and entirely

Ibf the deprivation of my own individual gratification, that

would be understood to speak: for, in truth, to a mind rightly

Idisposed, know not what can prove more highly gratifying,

than to see the harmonious junction of so many hands and

hearts in a sacred cause: and surely the extensive distribution

bf the word of God is a sacred cause. The Bible is the only

book, which, in the profound depth of human darkness and

ignorance, lays open the will of our Maker and Benefactor.
In fact, the Bible, with the knowledge it communicates and the

benefits it announces, is the choicest gift ever vouchsafed by

Almighty God to miserable sinners.

   I" therefore infer, with the most unreserved confidence,

than an industrious and disinterested diffusion of the Bible

among our fellow-creatures of all ranks and denominations,

cannot possibly fail to be acceptable to the Divine mind. In

diffusing the Bible, we promote, according to our ability, the

wise and benevolent designs of Almighty God himself; we

make known his laws, his promises, and his threatehings.

Through the Bible the poor have the Gospel declared to them.

It opens the treasures of redemption, and points out the way

of acceptance with God. In this way ' the inhabitants of the

world learn righteousness;' and while they are thankful for
God's unspeakable gift, they are taught to make His holy word

their guide in this life, their support in the hour of death, and

the foundation of their hopes of a blessed immortality.

   I" pretend not to judge either the conscience or the

conduct of another man ; but after the most serious and
Ireiterated reflection,
                         have satisfied my own mind, that there
is no one thing on earth in which I can join with all ranks and

denominations of men more sincerely, more earnestly, and

with less doubt or hesitation, than in the dissemination of the

Sacred Scriptures.

    " Under the Divine blessing, the Bible is abundantly the

most likely mean to be instrumental in changing the hearts of
604 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 18U. MTAT. 64

                                        is,
men of all sects and parties, that in making bad men become

good, in making the ignorant and vicious become virtuous and

wise unto salvation.
" Now as
           I it     with the truly wise and virtuous of all com-
                is
n.unions that hope to be numbered at that glorious resur

rection of the dead which the Bible teaches me to expect, and

as in their company, together with Christ, the Head of the
it
    is

Universal Church, that look to the enjoyment of blessed
                      I                                      a

immortality, cannot devise an argument which, in my mind,
           I

weighs one grain in the balance against the important con

sideration of joining hand in hand in this good work, with such

men while we are here on earth with men who are zealous to
                                        a
promote the dispersion of the Holy Scriptures in their pure;

unsophisticated state.                                I  hope to live in the

    " Briefly, thus stands the argument.

next world with those who in this world love and revere their

Bible, and obey its injunctions. Therefore, while remain on
                                                             I
earth, would gladly make common cause with those who
I                                                                     a

are active and zealous in furnishing the poor with this Sacred

Book. Here, then,                       consideration which must for ever
           it
operate to the advantage of the Bible Society;is                         consi
                    is
deration which subsists altogether by its native strength and
                       is
simplicity; which not to be shaken by any nice and intricateis
calculations, any imaginary alarms, or suspicions of futurea

mischief.      not upon theoretical speculations, that the

    " But

excellence of this admirable institution depends. Its extensive

practical utility has been demonstrated by experience. The

Sacred Volume         actually finding its way into every corner of

cities, towns, villages, and cottages and                    the satisfaction
                                        ;

                                           is
                                                  it
                                                         is
of the supporters of this Society, that they have been instru
mental in bringing about this happy effect. In word, this
                                                             a
most extensive and unexampled dissemination of the Holy          a

******Scriptures both at home and abroad, like sounding trumpet

in the cause of God, and proclaiming glory to God on high, on
earth, peace, good-will towards men."

     "Assuredly the Bible Society with all its branches, has

my most earnest prayers for its prosperity and Sir, were
                                                         ;

                                                                                it
         CHAP. XXVI. A J). 1814. /ETAT. 64.                                 605

possible and expedient for me to be present on this occasion,

I would certainly, so far as it might be in my power, endeavour

to stifle every syllable that was not altogether conciliatory.

Argument and even contention have done their part in this

matter; Sir, I would therefore endeavour even to forget, as

much as possible, that any difference of sentiment had existed

Iupon the subject ; and lastly, would request those who wish

to become acquainted with the real character and operations of

the Bible Society, to look for them in the hearts and dwellings

of the poor, and among the thousands and tens of thousands

of our countrymen and of foreigners who have received the

bounty of the Society and are praying for its success.

          " I have the honour to be, Mr. Chairman,
         "
                      Wit"hYtohuergfraeiatthefsutl  respect,
                                                    and obedient  servant,
                                                    "Isaac Milner,

                                                    "Dean of Carlisle."

     The usual time for Dr. Milner's return to Cambridge had
now nearly arrived. He had not yet abandoned all thoughts of

undertaking the journey, and important business urgently
demanded his presence in College. This uncertainty lasted till
the end of November, when the weather becoming unusually
severe, all hope that his health would be sufficiently re-esta
blished to render travelling safe during the winter months was
at an end. Under these circumstances he, very reluctantly,
made his friends at Queen's aware, that, although " his heart"

was " at Cambridge," yet, that for the first time since he had been

President, the College Audit must take place in his absence.

His medical advisers still maintained, that there existed "no

danger;" and, as he wrote to one of the tutors of Queen's

College, " when" he was " a little better than usual," he had
" faith in his doctors." Of these " doctors," one, perhaps the

most able among them, had recently, by letter, cheered him by

the following expressions :--

 "  You  pos"seYsest  great  excitability both      of body and mind ;"
*   **                with   all your miseries,
                                                     you have laboured,
GOG CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. jETAT. 64.

like St. Paul, more abundantly than almost any of your

brethren.                     " Always, dear Sir,
                                      " Yours very faithfully,
" Lower Grosvenor Street,                          "M. Baillie.

"November 25, 1814."

In the letter already alluded to, Dr. Milner gives some

hints with regard to the nature of the examination to which,

in his opinion, the candidates for fellowships ought to be sub

jected,  and adds, that    "it would                grieve" him   "much, and
greatly                                            if any worthy  man, being a
         increase" his "  sufferings,

candidate for a fellowship, should suffer in his interests, through"

his "infirmities." This was, in fact, the main consideration

which  dwateeighheeddeucplaornes,hitshamt ihned;"  in another letter of nearly the
same                                               would stretch any point rather

than that a worthy person should suffer." Satisfactory arrange

ments, however, were eventually made for the carrying on of

the necessary business of the College, particularly as to the

election of fellows ; and his anxiety upon this subject being
removed, Dr. Milner settled himself quietly in his Deanery for

the remainder of the winter.

     The following letter, written during this season of retire
ment, will be read with much interest. In order to introduce

it properly to the reader's notice, it should be premised, that

the Rev. Josiah Pratt had requested Dean Milner "to write a

note of approbation of the Proceedings of the Church Mis

sionary Society," which might be read at the meeting to be held

at Cambridge, for the purpose of establishing in that place an

association auxiliary to the Parent Institution. It is scarcely

necessary to observe, that although the larger part of this

letter is well calculated for such a purpose, yet, that it was

evidently considered by the Dean as a private communication

to Mr. Pratt, from which such passages as might be deemed

suitable, were to be selected for public reading. Dr. Milner

had paid much attention to the constitution of the Church

Missionary Society, of which he was himself a Vice-President;

and some passages in the following letter exactly accord with
CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. JETAT. 64.  607

the sentiments which he was in the habit of expressing with
regard to that excellent institution. To prevent misappre
hension, a few words may be subjoined in elucidation of the
passages in question.

"To the Rev. Josiah Pratt.

                         " Deanery, Carlisle,

"Reverend and dear Sir,  November 17, 1814.
" In reply to your communication of the 5th instant,
Itransmitted to me through the hands of Mr. Bickersteth,

have gratefully to acknowledge the very affectionate terms in

which you make your inquiries respecting my severe and long-

cont"inAumedonigndtihsepovsaitriioouns. afflicting inconveniences and mortifica-.

Itions which, on this account, have experienced for some years
past, I reckon my utter inability to afford any active support to

those zealous friends of the Gospel who, by their unwearied

exertions, and by the use of all probable means in their power,

are endeavouring to enlighten the heathen world, in the great

concern of eternal salvation.

   "And surely, for effectuating this great purpose, more probable,

and less exceptionable means cannot be devised than the disper

sion, in the first place, of the pure Word of God, in intelligible

language ; and secondly, the sending, among the various nations,

such teachers and expounders of the Sacred Oracles, as are
found --on examination -- to be both well qualified, and also

cordially disposed to undertake this most weighty concern.

These two grand objects are obviously and absolutely concur

rent, and essential to each other.

    " The single circumstance of the recent circulation of the

genuine Bible to so prodigious an extent among ignorant and

idolatrous nations, appears to me to be an inestimable point

gained for the grand purpose in contemplation.

    " I reflect with great satisfaction, that I am a member of the

two Societies for the dispersion of the Sacred Scriptures ; and

more particularly, that, so long as the shattered fragments of an

Ienfeebled constitution enabled me to stand forward in public,

exerted myself to the utmost, for the salutary purpose of remo
608 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. JETAT. 64.

ving objections, and establishing harmony and good will in so

right"eoTuhse  a cause.              injunction  is,      ' Go ye into all nations, and
               Scriptural
preach the Gospel to every creature.' In this matter,
Itherefore, consider, not merely the clearness of the under

standing, but also, the obedience of the heart, to be concerned.

    "This consideration introduces me to the more immediate

subject of this letter ; namely, the Church Missionary Society,

of which the active friends and supporters are, as I understand,

about to meet together at Cambridge, with the intent of esta

blish"inMgyasneAntsismoecniatstiononAtuhxisiliaheryadt,o  the Parent  Institution.
                                                          as well as  on other points,

            I                              are so perfectly well known, that,

                                      it,
closely connected with                                                   I
                                                                                I
supp"osTeh,e    may content myself with being exceedingly                  concise.
               members of the Church Missionary Society,                 and espe

cially their directing Committee, are exclusively persons who

belong to the Established Church of England and would
                                                           I;
most earnestly wish, that this well marked and very intelligible

distinction, may be kept constantly in view throughout every

part of the operations of this Society, of which have long had

the honour to be Vice-President.

    " The doctrines and discipline of the Church of England are
it
   is

                   a
                                  a
registered in our Articles, Liturgy, and Homilies and although
                                                                      ;

not to be denied but that the numerous questions and posi

tions of captious, difficult, and puzzling nature, may be

devised respecting the meaning of these Formularies, never
                                                                         I,
theless, apprehend, that, after all,
                                                                              is,
                                           a               candid and competent
                                                        a
inquirer cannot be much at loss to understand who and

who not, bond fide member of the Church of England. A

few plain, direct, and easy, questions, will, in general, settle the
; is
           if,

                                 a
point and      unfortunately, there should arise persons of an

artful disposition, desirous to dissemble, and to disguise their

real sentiments, Ecclesiastical History abundantly shows, that,

in such cases, multitude of tests never avail to the detection
               a

of evasion and insincerity, although such tests may often serve

to entangle and harass sincere and tender consciences.

    " A much greater difficulty, in my judgment, will be, so to

secure our juvenile and untried missionaries, and candidates for
          CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. /ETAT. 64.            GOO

missionary appointments, that they shall remain steady and

consistent in the principles and practice of their profession. To

Ithis point, hope, the labours of the Society will be materially

directed: for this is precisely the case wherein a good beginning
may not always be followed by a good issue. The young mis

sionaries, however sincere and zealous at their outset, may after

wards, unless exceedingly well-founded in their principles, be

easily induced, when abroad, and during the conflict of nume

rous sects and divisions, to swerve from their attachment to the

Church, notwithstanding that when they first went out from us,

they appeared, and even believed themselves to belong to us.

Certainly such a departure will be the more likely to take place

when the aforesaid young missionaries are removed to a great

distance from the advice and superintendence of persons in

England whose wisdom and character they have been accustomed

to respect and to revere.

    " But in a good cause, it is never my disposition to accumu

late or magnify difficulties and impediments.

   " In the main, I most sincerely approve of the plans of the

ISociety as developed in their several Reports ; and heartily

wish, that it were more in my power to promote their pious

intentions by any active and useful exertions on my part.

    " The contribution of a little pecuniary assistance is the

easiest thing in the world ; it implies no consumption either of

time or of labour : nor does it require anything which can cause

trouble or anxiety. Nevertheless, when this species of assist

ance is all that a person has it in his power to render, it will, I

doubt not, be accepted by Him who always judges according to

what a man hath, and not according to what he hath not.

    " The Missionary Society, together with its friends and sup

porters, will ever have my most cordial and earnest prayers to

Almighty  God for the success of their labours.

          " I am, Reverend and dear Sir,
          " Yours very faithfully and affectionately,
                                  "Isaac Milner."

    It  has been observed, that   some parts of  this admirable
        may require elucidation.    There could  scarcely be a
letter
                                                   2R
610 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1814. ^TAT. 64.

greater mistake than to imagine, that Dr. Milner disapproved of

all Missionary Societies except those which are in connexion

with the Church of England. In order to confirm this assertion

it is only necessary to state, that he subscribed liberally not only

to the Moravian Missionary Establishments, but also to certain

Missionary Associations conducted by the body of Wesleyan

Methodists. With St. Paul, he rejoiced,
                it                            under any circum
                               it
                                        it if,
stances, "Christ" were " preached." Nevertheless, with perfect

consistency, he considered an essential point in the conduct of

the Church Missionary Society, that should remain, and prove

itself, both at home and abroad, that which professed to be --

namely, Church Society, aSociety sending out Missionaries who
           a

should not only hold the doctrines, but likewise strictly conform

to the discipline of the Established Church and for the securing'
                                         ;
                                                 ;
                                                       a

                                                              ;"
nionifsntgtah,n"icsehsia,mdpsnouorftftaicnbietenetnpoicnianvrtea, rihhaaebdlycen"rottafoinlblloeywenecdotnabckyeeinavegdo,"odthgiasosto,udeinbesogaminnde

from such laxity of discipline, consequences injurious to the

interests of religion, as well as to the credit of the Established

Church, were, in his opinion, likely to ensue. Without the

slightest taint of bigotry or illiberality, Dr. Milner was cordially

attached to the Establishment, and being so, was anxious, that

every missionary sent out under the auspices of the Church of

England should esteem himself bound conscientiously to observe
the rules of that Church as well in matters of discipline as of

doctrine.

Dr. Milner's sentiments upon the subject of Missionary

exertions are expressed in the following very interesting letter,
written soon after the Annual Audit at Queen's College, to his

valued friend,

                "The Rev. Wm. Mandell.
" Dear Sir,     " Carlisle Deanery, January 30th, 1815.
" have most particularly to thank you for copy of your
I

             I

                               it

                                   I

                                                       it

                                                                                      a
                                                                                            a
sermon, which, by your directions,  received the other day

from my bookseller. The perusal of gave me very vivid

satisfaction, as trust ever will do, to see the Missionary

Spirit explained and inculcated, upon true Gospel principles,
              CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.                6U

with firmness and energy. There was, in the late Bishop

IHorsley, much to approve, and some things to admire; yet

could never come into his way of thinking, that Christians
had nothing to do with diffusing the Gospel in foreign parts,

Iunless they could give some proofs of a Divine commission ;

though most entirely allow that nothing either like force or

intrigue against the existing governments ought to be used by

Missionaries  of any description.
"             on, good friend ;
    #21"  Go                       do  your best ;  add  your  mite  in

the true cause, whenever a fair opportunity presents itself.
Life is short.

    " * * * The good wishes of my friends, respecting my

health, and their very kind communications, have made an

indelible impression on my mind, whatever may be the event

which a good Providence has in store for me.
"
"  It is  my desire to   communicate to  you the exact truth. * *
          only knows     what the issue  may be. However, my
   God
duty is clear --to kiss the rod, and make a proper use of his

chastisement, which, in my case, certainly is not in anger : for
Imy actual pains are not grievous, therefore
                                                         am not to
IImurmur, and to fancy what a great deal of use might be of.

often remember Milton :

                                    H Who best bear his mild yoke,
                          They serve him best."

   I I" am very glad, that have satisfied you as to Melancthon.

Hewas often, when more advanced in life, desirous of suppressing,

or at least, of not republishing, several of his juvenile pieces :
and this, not always because he had altered his sentiments, but
because he judged these earlier writings to be too incorrect to

be handed down to posterity. He also wrote several things

under fictitious names.
   I" * * * N.B. If you have not yet given out a subject

for the Bachelor's prize, would wish the subject to be 1 Tim.,
vi., 20. ' Avoid
                         oppositions of science, falsely so
called.1 * * * *
          " Yours, dear Sir, very truly,
              " And with most affectionate remembrance,
                                         "Isaac Milner."
                                                    r2 2
612 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.

On the 4th of March Dr. Milner thus wrote : " Be assured,
Ithat my heart is in College.
                               think of it every day a great

deal, and with anxiety and regret."

    Dr. Milner's " heart" was indeed at this time " in College,"

but great as was his anxiety to be again at his post in the Uni

versity, he suffered not that anxiety to cause him to neglect any

opportunity that presented itself of usefulness in the place

where the providence of God had, for the present, fixed his

habitation. He had long observed, with sorrow, the increase

and dissemination of a democratic spirit in the city and neigh

bourhood of Carlisle, and had thought very seriously on the

subject, with a view to the adoption of some practical means of

checking the growing evil. As the best means of effecting this

purpose, he had conceived the design of establishing a weekly

newspaper, to be conducted on loyal and constitutional princi

ples ; and the execution of this design was hastened by a fresh

ebullition of that pestilent spirit which he desired to suppress.

At this juncture he wrote, and caused to be printed and circulated,

a paper touching upon the main points of the existing popular

discontents. This paper, which was headed A Caution, and of

which the original copy is in existence, was printed without a

signature; but to those who were judges of composition, the

style discovered the author; and this Caution was effectual,

not only in suppressing the actual symptoms of turbulence and

disaffection, but also in determining the conduct of several

influential persons, who, having previously been irresolute or

lukewarm in the affair, now resolved to join heart and hand

with the Dean in the establishment of a weekly publication, of

which the principal object should be to disseminate sound prin

ciples, both political and religious.

Such a publication was established in the month of April,

1815, under the title of The Patriot, or Cumberland and Carlisle

Advertiser, Dean Milner furnishing a Prospectus admirable both

in matter and expression.

To the end of his life the Dean looked back with satisfaction

upon the part which he had taken in this affair. He was far

indeed from being a bigot in politics ; but he was convinced,

that he by no means overstepped the line of his duty as a
CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. £ITAT. C5.                                   613

Christian minister, when he endeavoured equally to enforce
both parts of the Apostolic precept, " Fear God, Honour the
King."

     The approach of old age, far from deadening, appeared
rather to quicken Dean Milner's affections. The following
letter -- surely a model of judicious tenderness --was addressed
to the Archbishop of York on occasion of the death of his

eldest daughter.

"To his Grace the Archbishop of York.

"My dear Archbishop,            with      "Deanery, Carlisle,

   "I am too little acquainted           " May 27th, 1815.

                                      the rules of modern
Ietiquette to be quite sure whether may not be intruding too

soon upon your Grace's melancholy contemplations at this

Iafflictive season. Yet cannot allow myself to doubt of your

Grace's readiness to pardon any transgression of this sort, when

your kindness shall lead you to reflect upon the motives which

to take this step.
 the moment that
Iinduce me          heard of this awful visitation--

    " From
IGod knows, that speak truth-- the mournful situation of your

Grace, of Lady Anne, and of every branch of your family, ha3

scarcely, for one quarter of an hour, been out of my mind. I,

who have had the good fortune, during your Grace's long resi

dence at Rose Castle, to see so much of the interior of your

Grace's conduct of your family, and of the affectionate inter

                    a

                                                               it,
course which constantly subsisted among all the parts of can

understand better, perhaps, than many others, how severe must

be the pangs of separation in case where every tender affection

has been so much strengthened by the long operation of the

most powerful causes that can be imagined.

    "Yet, even in the recollection of those very causes, the

pious minds of your Grace and of your good Lady will find

much to mitigate the irreparable loss which you have sustained.
Your endeavours, my dear Archbishop, to instil into the minds

of your children the best principles of religion having been

unwearied, you surely cannot fail to experience some relief

when you call to mind how remarkably those endeavours were
614 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JET AT. 65.

blessed by a kind Providence, in the effects produced upon the
disposition of the excellent lady, whose untimely removal
cannot but be bitterly lamented.

     "Indeed, indeed, it is impossible but that the heart must
bleed for the loss of so precious a jewel ; and it is much easier
to say, ' God's will be done,' than to acquiesce cordially under
so trying a dispensation. The loss of our near relatives and
friends is by far the greatest evil we can possibly suffer in this
world.

     " For me to pretend to point out to your Grace the proper

resources on such occasions would be both unnecessary and
presumptuous. Your Grace may, however, be assured, that
among your numerous and nearest connexions, there is not any
one, who, on this sad occasion, heaves a deeper or a sincerer

sigh, than your " Faithful and affectionate Servant,
                                                 "Isaac Milner.

    " Have the goodness to communicate my affectionate re

Igards to Lady Anne, whose health, fear, may suffer much

from this severe trial -- as also to Miss Anne, whose excellent

Iunderstanding, piety, and mild virtues, have, from her infancy,

ever held in the highest estimation.

" To His Grace the Archbishop of York."

There are persons who attempt to console the afflicted by

affecting to make light of their affliction. Dr. Milner under

stood better both the nature of grief and the art of consola

tion. The above affectionate address called forth the following
reply: --
                                                 '' Richmond,
" My very dear Friend,            your most   "3rd June, 1815.

    I" received here, yesterday,             affectionate letter.

It is, as you observe,     much easier to say, under our present
                           ' God's will be done,' than to acquiesce
afflicting circumstances,

cordially in so trying a dispensation. We, however, all of us,
do our best in this way; and the Almighty will not be extreme

to mark what is deficient. The expression of grief is authorized

by the very example of Jesus himself.
              CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.                                 615

'i For her whom we mourn, the change is a blessed one.

She had such a superior sense of her religious duties, and her

whole heart was so bent on the genuine practice of them, that

Ia purer spirit, am persuaded, never quitted a mortal frame.

She had been more or less delirious for the last three days of
her illness ; but a few hours before her death, she appeared to

make an effort to compose herself, and after a short pause,
repeated, with her hands clasped, and her eyes directed up
wards, the most beautiful prayer, or rather form of thanksgiving,

Ithat ever heard. But judge of my emotions towards the con

clusion of when, after having blessed God for all His temporal
I

                  a it,

                                                              ;

                                             '
mercies to her through life, she added, as nearly as my memory
will serve me, these words But above all, thank thee, that
                                                                 I
was born of religious parents, who betimes instructed me in
                                                                            is
the ways of thy laws, and in the works of thy commandments.'

A few more sentences followed this, and the whole was pro
nounced in most audible and distinct voice, --so audible, and
so distinct, as to be heard correctly in the opposite room to

hers, (where the rest of the family were assembled) though

separated by a passage; the doors, however, were open.

Having thus expressed herself, she raised her hands on high,

and with the utmost fervour, ejaculated, 'Worthy the Lamb
that was slain,' -- Blessing and honour, and glory and power,
              '

                                     ;
be unto Him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb

for ever.' These were the last intelligible, or rather, the last

coherent words she uttered and her last voluntary effort was

an endeavour, with both her hands, to carry one of mine to

her lips.

    " Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end

be like hers
is                                          " Ever yours with true affection,

        I                                                                   "E. Ebor.
                                 !
                                          is
    " Lady Anne's mind superior to everything. Her bodily

health and strength have with difficulty been supported. Two
days ago, was under the greatest anxiety about her, but she

    now better.

" To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle."
616 CHAP. XXVL A.D. 1815. .STAT. 65.

Dean Milner watched, with much interest, over the conduct

of the weekly publication which he had been instrumental in

establishing at Carlisle; and inserted ina at different times,

some admirable Essays of considerable length, in the shape ofit,

letters to the Editor. Some extracts are here given from two    a

of these excellent compositions, which were sent to The Patriot

during this and the following month. From the first of these

letters, bearing the motto

                                   Dimidium facti qui coepit, habet,

****#*the following passages are extracted.
" Another practice which implies  great mistake as to the

nature of good composition, and which proves extremely offen

sive to persons of education, respects the improper introduction

of our own private sentiments and principles, and the mixing of
these with the thread of the narrative. This has been growing

evil for some years past, not only among the writers of news

papers, but has also been justly complained of, as too much

encouraged even by our most celebrated modern historians.

On this account the History of Rapin, though extremely defec

tive in beauty of style and elegance of composition, has, by

many persons, on account of its stricter adherence to facts, and

its more accurate communication of important circumstances,

been preferred, as specimen of good historical writing, to the
a

more learned and elaborate and philosophical performances of

Hume and Gibbon. Lastly, the journalist, the historian, who

ever he be, who has facts to communicate, should never, for

the sake of indulging his own fancy, or gratifying vitiated
                               I
taste among his readers, forget, that in relating matters of fact,a
                                                                  a
his principal concern should always be to keep in view, as the

beacons of his historical march, two grand fundamental rules. --

1st. On no occasion whatever to dare to utter falsehood;

2ndly, On no occasion whatever, not to dare to speak the truth.

'Ne quid falsi dicere audeat;     deinde, ne quid veri non
audeat.' --Cic.

"By no means, however, would be understood to object

to an editor's declaring, from time to time, his own private
           CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.          617

sentiments on public transactions and measures, as also, on
general principles of government, provided this be done with

moderation and good sense ; and so as to impress the reader's

mind with a conviction of the upright intentions of the writer.
It is the mixing of opinions and sentiments with the narrative,
Iat almost every step, of which complain. This practice does
Inot, grant, always, or necessarily, imply the existence of
Iparty-spirit; but assert that it leads to
                                                      it,
                                                              it
                                                                     is

                                                                              it
                                                      directly; that

treads on the very heels of party-spirit, and that    sure, in

no great length of time, to degenerate into party-spirit of the

very worst kind.

    "This same practice has become so extremely common in

the management of many of our public prints, and readers are

thereby so habituated to an incongruous mixture of fact and

argument, that they are scarcely aware of the delusive steps

which are often, by these means, intentionally taken, to de

bauch the  purity  of their judgment and opinion."
             *           The Reform of the popular representation
    "*             *

                                                ;
in Parliament -- the nature of the British Constitution --the true
origin of all legitimate power and government --the doctrine of

the sovereignty of the people; these, and other subjects of
                                                      it

                                                                       a
similar nature, require great coolness of judgment and the most

dispassionate mode of thinking yet how rarely does happen,

that the discussion and investigation of such important points

as these--points so necessary to be soberly considered and
clearly understood by the thinking portion of the community--

are introduced into our public periodical prints, except in

moments either of discontent or disgust, or, perhaps, of triumph

and exultation, when men's minds are least free from passion

and partiality!"
      The second letter above alluded to, contains, in addition to
                                                   a
other excellent matter, the following observations, which will
probably be thought not less adapted to the circumstances of
the present time, than to those of the period at which they

were written.

    After speaking of " the incessant attempts which are made by

the managers of many periodical publications to create in the
minds of the good subjects of this country dislike to the con
618 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.

stitution of its government, by magnifying inconveniences which

are unavoidable, and by exasperating, instead of healing, ani

mosities which are apt to arise in  times of     public distress, or
public disappointment," and of the                and but too suc
                                    " frequent,

cessful efforts of artful demagogues to excite jealousies and

suspicions which prove the more pernicious because they

operate with the greatest effect in those very seasons when

unanimity among all ranks and orders is called for, and when

the active co-operation of whatever is stable, and sound, and

virtuous in the state is become absolutely necessary," Dean

Miln"eBrepriotcaedemdsittaesd,fosllioncwes:a--ll human productions are imperfect

that there may be parts unsound; be it admitted, that such

parts should be well probed, and propped, or repaired, or made

entirely anew, still I contend, that the moment for urging such

undertakings is not under the present and immediate pressure

of an existing evil. The beam in your eye at such a moment,

not only obstructs the clearness of your vision, but absolutely
distorts the accuracy of the picture.

    I" place the greater stress on these ideas, because I conceive

it to be of the utmost consequence, that the inhabitants of any
country should, if possible, have their minds impressed with

favourable sentiments of the government under which they live.
Even if the government be a bad one, they should never forget,

while meditating a change, to take the balance, and cautiously

estimate, whether, even in the most judicious and best-inten-

tioned attempts at alteration, they be not likely, in the conflict,

to lose more than they can probably gain; in so very great a

degree is almost any government better than anarchy.

    "Any further elucidation of this subject can scarcely be

necessary; otherwise abundance of instances readily suggest
themselves to illustrate and confirm my meaning.

    "For example: When provisions happen to be unusually

dear, when the wheels of commerce move heavily, when manu

facturers are compelled to dismiss their workmen, or to diminish

the wages which they pay to them --when the clouds which in

pseasons of fertility drop fatness, either withhold their salutary

moisture, or pour down rain too copiously-- or again, when the
CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.                              619

fair and cheering prospect of plentiful crops is darkened, or
utterly destroyed, by unfavourable weather --and, once more,

when the blessings of peace and harmony are interrupted, and

wars upon wars, with all their horrors, are rumoured among

the people, and when, in consequence, imposts become both

more numerous and more heavy, while the ability of the sub
ject to sustain the necessary burden becomes less; -- at such

seasons, and under such circumstances it is, that ignorant or

designing men, through the medium of periodical publications,

generally succeed best in degrading and vilifying the govern

ment of the country, and the persons who have the royal

authority to direct its motions.

    " ' These things,' the people are confidently told, ' would not

be so, provided we had but a more free and full representation

in Parliament/ 'Such things would not happen under the
inspection and superintendency of a free Parliament.' ' Reform

the Parliament, and the crown will select its servants from
persons of a different and more virtuous description.' ' Rash

and dangerous measures are constantly proposed by unwise

and interested ministers, and such ministers would instantly

vanish, and be driven to hide their heads from the scrutiny

of a House of Commons chosen by the united good sense

and experience of the mass of so enlightened a people as the

it                                                             in addition to all this

              is
                                                          if,
inhabitants of this country.' Now

be insinuated, that upon a reform in Parliament, provisions

and malt liquors would presently sink in price, be more plen

tiful, and more within the reach of the lower classes of the

community, the argument will be irresistible.

    " It in vain, on occasions of temporary diminution of the

prosperity of the country, or in scenes of peculiar difficulty and

awful apprehension, to urge the example of Mr. Pitt, to insist

upon the wisdom, the perseverance, the spirit of that extra

ordinary statesman, who, in the heaviest and most fearful

political storm on record, stood so long at the helm with an

unexampled firmness, and piloted the national vessel safe into

harhour amid the astonishment of all the nations of Europe.

Alas! these memorable transactions, the recorded honours of

which cluster over his monument, are at once smothered by
620 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. /ETAT. 65.

some such objection artfully stated, as, that ' Mr. Pitt made a
great many peers --these have increased the influence of the
crown -- and, so far, injured the sovereignty of the people -- and
hence, poverty, stagnation of commerce, with a train of wretched

consequences.'

     " An instance selected from recent transactions, may serve to

Iillustrate my meaning more completely. For example, have

not the least objection that the great constitutional question, so
often agitated, concerning a reform in parliament, should be
soberly and judiciously discussed in newspapers, with all the
helps which ingenious argument can devise; but when great
questions are agitated concerning such matters as the Property
Tax, a Corn Bill, or a Tax on Windows; and some, or all of

Ithese are decided contrary to the popular wishes ; have, then,

a very great objection that an editor should choose that par
ticular moment to vilify the 'unequal representation of the
British Parliament,' and to ascribe those bad measures, as he
calls them, to that cause as a radical fault in the British con
stitution. This is not to argue, but to inflame ; it is not to
investigate carefully, but to decide peremptorily ; it is not to
produce, but to stifle evidence.

    I" say again, it is to stifle and suppress; because the other

side has an equal right to produce, as so many proofs of a wise
constitution of the Parliament, all those numerous determina

tions of the House of Commons which are allowed to be

popular and praiseworthy.

    " The truth is, that neither the one nor the other class of

Parliamentary decisions, neither those which excite popular
discontent, nor those which excite popular applause, are to be
looked upon as just tests either of a wisely, or a defectively
constituted representation of the people in Parliament. More
over, it is neither in the moment of censure, nor the moment

of applause, that a wise man would expect an inquiry into a
matter of so much importance as the constitution of the House
of Commons of this country, to be conducted with the requisite
coolness and deliberation. At such moments an improper, nay
an unfair advantage is taken of the existing temper of the
public, which is then either too much gratified by recent
CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. jETAT. 65.  621

popular decisions, or too much irritated by disappointment and
contradiction in the loss of some favourite object: in the
former state of mind, men are apt to be in such good humour,
as to wink at every species of fault or defect -- in the latter,
they are usually so peevish and discontented, as to fancy that
they see an evil of magnitude in every inconvenience, and to
rest satisfied with nothing short of essential change and inno
vation."

     As a sincere lover of his country, Dean Milner could not, at
this period, be otherwise than deeply interested in the state of

public affairs.
    To trace the progress of the Duke of Wellington's victorious

arms upon an accurate map, was an employment in which he
delighted ; but, well supplied as he was with maps, which he
had always been fond of collecting, he possessed none suffi
ciently full for his purpose; and, with characteristic ardour, he
spared no expense necessary to the attainment of his object.

A letter now lies before me, written on the 18th of June,

1815, in which, little aware of the glorious termination on that
day put to the long struggle, he commissions a friend in London
to procure for him various maps, on a large scale, of different
portions of Europe.

     The June Chapter was now approaching, and the journey

southward was again postponed.
     The value of Dean Milner's taste for philosophical researches

was never more strongly felt than during this long confinement
at Carlisle. The frequent correspondence which he maintained,
at this period, with Professor Leslie, of Edinburgh, was a source
of much interest. Mr. Leslie, at the Dean's request, furnished
him with all the necessary apparatus for his ingenious experi
ments on heat and moisture ; and in the repeating of these
experiments, the Dean found useful and agreeable occupation,
when incapacitated by ill health for serious study.

     Among other philosophical apparatus procured by Dean
Milner through the instrumentality of Mr. Leslie, was a
splendid electrical machine of the newest and most approved
construction, with jars, &c, of immense power. He was thus
supplied with the means of gratifying his friends, and espe
C22         CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. .ffiTAT. 65.

cially young persons, with the sight of many scientific wonders
which he was always ready to explain to those who showed a
disposition to learn; and, in this way, he often experienced,
even in the midst of severe bodily suffering, much benevolent

pleasure.

    It has been already observed, that Dr. Milner was strictly

conscientious in the matter of giving testimonials.

    At this period he strenuously exerted his influence, in
favour of the Rev. Mr., now Dr. Holmes, then a candidate for

the situation which he now holds, of Head Master of the
Grammar School at Leeds; and addressed to the electors, in
his behalf, a very strong testimonial, in which he alludes to
his habitual caution on this subject.

     The latter portion of this powerful testimonial, -- in the
course of which the Dean alludes to the circumstance, that he
had himself, in early life, " laboured for six or seven years, as a
teacher in a Grammar School," as enabling him the better to

form a judgment concerning the qualifications and attainments
requisite for such an office, -- may with perfect propriety be
here inserted, and will not be read with indifference.

    " As a native of the town of Leeds," writes Dr. Milner,
" and one who received all his early education at the Grammar

I ISchool, hope may be excused in expressing my most

sincere regard for the success of the institutions of that town,

and the prosperity of its inhabitants. My late brother, the

Rev. Joseph Milner, as well as myself, ever retained a most

grateful remembrance of the advantages which we derived from

Iour education in the said school; and have no scruple to own,

that both of us, under a kind Providence, have ever had reason

to ascribe all our successes in life to the instructions of the School

of  Leeds,  and the liberality of  the town and neighbourhood.
            experience of almost    fifty years in this University,
    " The

has convinced me, that a youth properly trained and exercised

in a good country school, may be full as well prepared for
what are called ' the Learned Professions' as any other persons,

be they who they may; and in regard to the useful qualifi

cations of merchants and men of business, or even the orna
          CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. .ETAT. 65.             623

mental accomplishments of the higher classes of society, it is
well known that the country schools have, in many instances,
been observed to merit a decided preference. My sincere
attachment to my native town and to its school, must be my
apology for saying so much.

                                          " Isaac Milner,

                                   " D"eaQnueoefn'sCaCrloisllleeg,ea, nCdamPrbersididgee.n"t of

     To Dr. Holmes himself, who, although at this time unsuc
cessful in his application, was subsequently elected to the
situation of Head Master of the Leeds Grammar School, Dean
Milner addressed some admirable " Hints for the conducting
of a Grammar School." From these " Hints," which form, in

fact, a complete scheme of literary education, the concluding
          are here quoted: --
remarks                        of  this  sort,  though  there must be
          a Grammar School
    " In

an adherence to general rules, yet considerable regard will

always be had, by a judicious master, both to the peculiar

dispositions of the scholars, and also to their prospects in

life.                                    E. g.  Are boys intended

   "A wide field opens here.

for the University, and for any of the liberal professions, as

they are called, or are they intended merely for commerce ? or

lastly, is it purposed that they should attain what is usually

called a good gentlemanlike education ?

    " In these cases, no doubt, a considerable part of the training
above recommended, is common to all. Yet this does not hold

thro"uTghheoutU. niversity, in general, seems to call for a profounder

knowledge of the classics, together with some initiation into

Geometry and Natural Philosophy -- especially if the University

of Cambridge be in view.

    "The case of the mere gentleman, or of the commercial

gentleman, admits of a more extensive introduction to general
science ; with a more accurate knowledge of modern Geography,

and also of modern History ; likewise a more frequent exercise
in the elegancies of English Composition, with a well digested
624 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. jETAT. 65.

system of the several branches of Natural Philosophy in little

room --not in the shape of amusing tricks, but so as to form

substantial   knowledge.       the  higher  classes should  be intro
              cases, however,
    " In all

duced to true and accurate notions of General History. It is

often deplorable to see persons well acquainted with numerous
facts, but unable to arrange them in their proper order of time

and place. A concise system of History, and of useful Chro
nology, is to be found in Dodsley's Preceptor. It requires,

however, better illustrations than are to be found there."

Early in the autumn, Dean Milner was gratified by a second

communication from the correspondent, whose very remarkable

account of his own religious experience has already appeared in
this chapter. The letter is so interesting that it must not be

suppressed.

"To the Very Reverend the Dean of Carlisle.

'Dear Sir,                                  "August 16th, 1815.

"The receipt of your favour of the 5th instant has occa

sioned in me mingled sensations of pain and pleasure. May

the Lord be pleased to say to the afflicting angel, ' It is

enough, stay now thine hand, and let his last days go down in
peace.' That you have been chastised for your profit, there
can be no doubt; for the Lord's love is as unchangeable as his

wisdom is infinite, and he adopts the most proper means with
regard to each one of all his children, to conduct them through

holiness to glory.

   I" You desire me to tell you how get on. My situation is

recluse -- my sphere of usefulness confined to about two hundred
parishioners -- and my insignificant history is chiefly connected
with that of my family. My own experience, though not so

lively, is much the same with respect of the Lord's sovereign

IIgrace and love, as when wrote last. Like old Newton,

know not what it is to distrust him. A deeper insight into my

corruptions serves only to convince me, that never-ceasing

recourse must be had to his wisdom, righteousness, sanctifica-

Ition, and redemption. The blood find to be as necessary for
Iperpetual support as the water. And thus would wish to live
               CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.                 625

daily by the faith of the Son of God, and that He should live
in me. * * * *

    "My doctrine creates great enmity. Scarcely a farmer

attends my ministry. The Squire of the parish, who was my
friend, and who, previous to my change, regularly attended
church, now quite deserts it. Yet the Lord is pleased to

honour me with the attention of the poor. The Squire's son,

Iwhom had befriended and prepared for Cambridge, raised such

reports against the enthusiasm of myself and my family, that

the Fellows of               were about to recal the testimonials

which they had given to my eldest son. But this was merci

fully over-ruled, and a remarkable opening was made for him to
--the curacies of -- and
                                     , where he has the care of fifteen

hundred souls, and I believe he is soundly and deeply taught

resp"ecMtinyg    the nature  of the food  necessary for  their supply.
               second son,                some promise
                             ----, gives                 ; and if persecu

tion be a mark of a disciple, he had as much of it last year at

               , for attending Mr. Simeon's church, as would have

overset  an    ordinary  professor.       , is a sailor, an officer in the
          *              third son,
    "*           * My

East India service, and has made two voyages. He came home

last year, and witnessed, for six months, a great alteration

among us. He is gone again, fourth mate in the                                                   ,
IIndiaman, hope with some serious impressions; and Mr.

, at my instance, has most affectionately intrusted him with

despatches and commendatory letters to Messrs. Thomason and
Thompson in India; thus he is become a Nethinim to the

Church Missionary Society, and has an interest in the prayers

of its patrons and friends.
" My fourth son,
                             , goes to reside his first term at                                  ,

Cambridge, next October. Naturally of a sound understanding,

and comparatively very prudent, he has had the conduct of a

man of thirty in the management of my little affairs, trying and

perplexing as they have been for four years, even from the early

Iage of fifteen. But hope the Lord fully and savingly taught

* The passages omitted have reference only to the private and domestic
                                    affairs of the writer.
                                                                                             2s
C2G CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. JETAT. 65.

him, last year, that knowledge, both of himself and his Saviour,

which will abide with him for ever. All friends here think him

a lad of great promise.

   "Like Job, I have seven sons and three daughters. The

Lord's love, already conferred on the elder children, makes a

beggar bold to ask favours for the rest.

   I" The Lord, trust, has opened the eyes of my parish clerk
and of some five or six others by my ministry. I instituted a

Thursday evening lecture during summer last year, and twice a

Iweek, in the winter evenings, collected about thirty, sometimes

forty, poor persons, at two cottages in opposite corners of the

Iparish, to expound a chapter, with prayer and a psalm. May

be made more useful in celebrating the praises of Him who hath

Icalled me out of darkness into his marvellous light ; and may

be clothed with humility ; no sinner had ever more cause.

   "And now, dear Sir, have I not tired your patience, and

disgusted you by causing my petty concerns to pass in review

Ibefore you ? Or may hope that this letter may beguile a few

minutes of your affliction ?
" With
        many  thanks for      your  kind letter,
                              me,   dear Sir,
               " Believe
" Your much obliged and respectful humble servant,

                                                    f>

     Dr. Milner's correspondence with Mr. Wilberforce, duringis,
the autumn and winter of this year, was frequent and affeca

tionate. The following extracts from a letter to that long-tried

friend, dated, " October, 1815," has reference to the then recent
d«ath of Mrs. Henry Thornton, and to the dangerous illness of
Mr. Wilberforce's only sister, the wife of James Stephen, Esq.

The whole communication, as might be expected in the case of
a letter written by Dean Milner under such circumstances,

overflows with tenderness. " What a change," he writes, " in

that blessed family ! To be surrounded with the comforts of
this world pretty plentifully, in such scenes, is very desirable,
no doubt ; but how very plain it to any one that thinks, and
looks at all into futurity, that nothing can much mitigate such

melancholy and affecting scenes, but comfortable reflection
         CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 65.

that the one thing needful has been so duly provided for as to

exclude any harassing anxieties. The accounts of our departed

friend, from all quarters, have been very gratifying. May our

Ilatter end be like hers ! Oh ! could say a deal -- my heart

* is full!
       " But another subject, you must know, hangs very heavy on
Imy mind ! Your own dear sister ! What shall say to you ?
I have, for some time past, smothered a good deal of my
apprehensions respecting her ; and indeed, I have endeavoured,
Ialmost with my eyes open, to deceive myself.
                                               know your
Iunbounded affection for her, and hers for you ; and have

really dreaded to speak out quite freely."

Many other affecting extracts from letters written during

this long confinement at Carlisle, and under the pressure of

ill-health, might be given ; some, indeed, indicating much bodily

weakness, and some consequent depression of spirits ; but one
and all affording satisfactory evidence, that, to use his own

words, " the one thing needful was duly provided for ;" and
that the writer in reality enjoyed that " perfect peace" which

he only can possess "whose mind is stayed" upon a reconciled

God.

   I" endeavour," writes Dean Milner, " to make it my prayer,

that these afflictions may not be removed till they have brought

about and finished the work which our gracious and merciful

High Priest intended them to do. How this sickness will end,

Ireally seems very doubtful. Indeed, my dear friend, assure
I Iyou am greatly inclined to believe that shall never be good
for much any more. I hope, however, I have been with

Jesus."

Again, speaking of the disease of the heart under which he

laboured, and with reference to which an eminent physician had

once said, that " with such a pulse, a man's life" was " not worth

one minute's purchase," the Dean uses the following expres

sions :--" How loudly this says, Prepare to meet thy God ; and

what an awful admonition ! What a deal could my heart pour

out to you on this subject ! These are the lights in which my
case is to be viewed ; first, as perhaps putting an end to life in

a moment ; secondly, as having the effect of laying one on the

                                            2 s2
C28 CHAP. XXVI. A.D. 1815. jETAT. 65.

Ishelf. God's will be done; that          may submit without a

Imurmur, is my

     On another
   constant              prayer."   :  "  consider myself as being
   occasion              he writes

in a very, very doubtful state, to say the least. Prepare, Prepare,

ought to be my motto, no doubt, in great letters. What the

Divine mercy has yet in store for me, it is  not easy   tthoerperoefd.'ic"t.
My hope that sufficient unto the day          the evil
   :                                it,
                                         is
    is,
                                                   is
     I
                                                          it
              '                                               it
Again " am happy to have a God to go to, let other

things be as they may.   1  endeavour to make           my prayer,

that as this load certainly laid upon me for good, may not
   it is
be removed till has done its work. To support this belief,

and the prayer connected with             no easy task; but as,   I

thank God, cannot, find, be easily driven from this belief,
   II
              I
Iso, trust, shall never suffer the buffetings of Satan to drive me
from my prayer. The rest must be left with a merciful God."

    " The few prayers of Pascal, at the close of his little book,

are most charming.       have experienced manifest consolation
                    I

                                                                !

                                                                    a
                                                                                           is
from the eleventh particularly*. Oh what state of mind

implied !"

    It should be observed that the foregoing passages occur, not

in any formal dissertations of the subject of religion, but in

ordinary and, often, hastily written letters on common topics
                                                                  it

                                                                                ;
they are therefore doubly valuable, as displaying, as were,

unintentionally, the real state and bias of the writer's mind.

The November chapter over, Dean Milner once more

entertained the hope, that he might be able to accomplish the

journey to Cambridge before the ensuing Christmas. His

health, however, continued to be very precarious and the unpre
cedented severity of the weather contributed to render such an
   *
undertaking formidable.
                                                       ;

                                                                                         ;
                                                                                            :

                                                               it

                                                                                                              ;
     Had Dr. Jowett still lived to urge him to make the attempt
to welcome him on his arrival at College and to cheer him, as
formerly, with his congenial and truly Christian society, he
might, perhaps, in some interval of comparative convalescence,

have been induced to venture upon the journey as was, the

year again closed upon him at Carlisle.

   Vide Pascal, vol. ii., p. 12G. Paris, 1812.
                       629

                       CHAPTER XXVII.

New Year's Day. -- Tranquil State of Mind. --Amended Health. --Extracts
      from Correspondence. --Return to College. --Visit to London. -- Dean
      Milner makes his Will.--Returns to Carlisle. --Thunder Storm.-- Danger
      of Lightning. --Busy Summer. --Election of Regius Professor of Divinity
      at Cambridge. -- Correspondence with the Rev. Charles Simeon. --Extracts
      from confidential Letters. --Assizes.--Strictness of Principle. --Affability
      of Manners. -- Baptismal Controversy. --Dr. Mant's Tracts. -- Proceedings
     of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. --Bishop of Calcutta.--
      Rev. John Scott.--Dr. Laurence. -- General observations on Adult and

    Infant Baptism. --Remarks on the Rev. J. Scott's Sermon on Baptism.--

      Absence of a dictatorial tone. -- Return to Cambridge.--Death of tho
       Princess Charlotte.

                       A.D. 1816. 'jETAT. 66.

It was very much Dean Milner's habit, at least during the

latter years  of       his life, to take  advantage, for                                             t"heToretguurlnatioovner  of
his conduct,  of       particidar times   and seasons.                                                                          a

new leaf," at the beginning of each new year, was a maxim

which he frequently urged, especially upon young persons ; and

besides this colloquial advice, he seldom failed, in his domestic

worship on New-year's day morning, to exhort the members of

his family to the serious performance of the same duty. The

retired and, comparatively, inactive mode of life to which his

precarious health at this period restrained him, was, doubtless,

unfavourable to the forming of vigorous resolutions; but Dr.

Milner was less than most men the creature of circumstances.

If" we are but where we ought to be, and employed as we

"ouwgeht   to be, all  things considered,"  he used frequently to say,
          may hope     for God's blessing
                                            upon our undertakings ;"

and this resigned and tranquil state of mind, bringing along

a

        it,
                it

                                                          ;
                                                                                                  !
with as always does, its own reward, was highly conducive

to that partial restoration to bodily health which he was begin

ning to experience.

As the spring advanced, he began seriously to contemplate

journey to Cambridge. Many pressing considerations urged

him to this undertaking but alas the great inducement

which would have supported and cheered him in the per
630 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. jETAT. 66.

forraance of this duty, was withdrawn. To this melan holy
topic --a topic which, notwithstanding his constitutional cheer
fulness, was never long absent from his mind--he alludes,
in a very affecting manner, in the following extract from a

letter, dated

" My dear Sir,                  "Deanery, April \Oth, 1816.
I" know not whether you may have heard, that from long,
and in some measure, severe indisposition, I have been com

pelled to live here in a sort of retirement from College, and

Ifrom business  of almost every kind.     it, when affirm, that
                                             *  *
    " assure    you, I do not over-state
                                                 I
from the day of the decease of our dear and lamented friend

Dr. Jowett, all my academical objects have put on a different

aspect. To me the loss has been both irreparable and incalcu

    am not, sure that single day has passed, without my
******lable.; aI     a
                            ;
heaving sigh to his memory and the melancholy reflection

has been kept up and increased by tedious and protracted

infirmities for more than two years.

" For many weeks past, have been meditating return to
                     I                              a

                                                           !
Cambridge, where  I  am much wanted.              Alas Alas       !

ever since the year 1770, whenever returned to Cambridge,
                                      I

my first object was invariably to meet Dr. Jowett; and was
                                                              it

usually settled by us, that we should meet on the first night of

our coming back to College  !"

     Never, surely, was strong affection expressed with greatera
truth!

     The ungenial spring of 1816 at length assumed milder

character and, although obliged to return to Carlisle in order
to be present at the June Chapter, and still in very indifferent
health, Dr. Milner, in the last week of May, obeyed the call of
duty, and, after an absence of nearly two years, returned to

College.

     Again at Cambridge, and warmly welcomed by numerous
friends, his health and spirits visibly revived. He applied
himself vigorously to the arrangement of the arrears of College
CHAP. XXVXI. A.D. J 816. JETAT. 60.  631

business, preached in the College chapel, and even attended, as
usual, the June meeting of the Board of Longitude.

     Still, however, notwithstanding the striking effect produced
upon his very impressible and elastic spirits, by the salutary,
change of climate and scene consequent upon his return to
Cambridge, the death of Dr. Jowett had left a blank, which
nothing could fill. He was totally unable to profit by the

advice of Dr. Johnson, that " a man, as he grows older, should

take care to keep his friendships in repair," by supplying
vacancies as they occur. The few friends whom Dr. Milner
loved, he loved with his whole heart ; and the breaches caused

by death among such friendships cannot be repaired.
     An important affair concluded by Dr. Milner during this

short residence at College, was the making of his will.
   " He left his library, with certain exceptions, to Queen's

College ; a bequest of peculiar value, on account of the large
collection which he had amassed of scarce Tracts on theological
and other subjects. He also left a considerable sum of money
to be appropriated to the augmenting of the incomes of the
aged inhabitants of the Alms-houses belonging to his College

--persons over whose comforts he exercised, during the whole

period of his Mastership, a benevolent superintendence.
     The duty of making a final settlement of all temporal con

cerns, at such a season, that the mind may not be disturbed by
them during the closing scenes of life, was often insisted upon
by him as incumbent upon all persons. This duty performed,
he again set forth on his return to Carlisle; which city he
reached in safety on the 21st of June.

     This journey was marked by a tremendous thunder-storm ;
such a storm as seldom occurs in our climate. In addition to

the rational estimate which he formed of the actual danger

incurred under such circumstances, --a danger which he thought
considerably underrated by most persons, -- Dr. Milner was con

stitutionally affected by an electrical state of the atmosphere.

It should likewise be added, that he had once, in early life,

witnessed an awful scene of death by lightning -- the death of

several persons. All these circumstances combined, rendered

him somewhat intolerant of the air of unconcern sometimes
632 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. jETAT. 66.

thoughtlessly assumed by persons ill-qualified to appreciate the
perils which surround them, when

                                            Thunders roll around.

" For my part," said an ignorant youth with whom he was once

Iieanxmhciobnmietvepedarnyasyfrmadiupdtroinomgfstaheofefpaairefnucxeliosuthtsoartmaip,sprnaeonhtdenlewsvihoeonlle, dp"eracFteomivreemd."ythp"aatrNt,hoer
I Ineither," replied the Dean, " if am but sure of-that."

     Whatever may be thought of the view which Dean Milner
took of this subject, it is at least certain, that, taking that view,

he acted in rational consistence with his opinions. It was his

 custom, on occasion of a near and dangerous thunder-storm, to

 call together his family, including his servants, and solemnly
 to implore the Divine protection from a danger which he
 conceived to be imminent, and against which there is no other

 safeguard.
      This summer's residence at Carlisle was a busy and an

 anxious one. First, there was very important Chapter busi
 ness, and that of a painful and embarrassing nature. Soon
afterwards, by the death of Dr. Watson, Bishop of Llandaff, the
 Regius Professorship of Divinity at Cambridge, which he had

held nearly half a century, became vacant. A professorship so

 honourable and important was, of course, an object of great
 interest, and the candidates were alike anxious to secure the
 powerful support of Dean Milner. Many were the letters
 which he wrote upon this subject ; and, at length, the day of
 election being at hand, he formally appointed a member of his
 own College his Vice-President, and gave him power to vote,
 on this occasion, as his proxy. Unfortunately, however, some
 untoward mistakes occurred ; and within about eight and forty
 hours of the time actually fixed for the election, he was sur
 prised by the appearance of a special messenger who had posted
 with the utmost speed from Cambridge, charged with directions
 to use his best efforts to persuade the Dean to return with him,
 without an hour's delay, and vote in person. Unfit as he was
 for an exertion so great and so sudden, Dr. Milner was far from
 pronouncing, at once, an absolute negative. He listened atten
 tively to the earnest representations which were made to him :
CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. 66.                           G33

but the arguments used failed to convince him, that duty

required so great an effort; and the event proved, that ho

judged rightly.

Another affair gave him much more serious and anxious

concern. He was urged by a very dear, and, as he had long

been convinced, a truly religious friend, to nominate to a living,

a person whom he could not conscientiously consider fit for so

important a charge. It may, perhaps, be asked, " Why should

he have felt any anxious concern upon such an occasion ? why

not have declared at once, that his conscience forbad him to

obey, in this instance, the dictates of friendship ?" Such a

question would, however, imply a very imperfect acquaintance,

on the part of the inquirer, with the exquisitely affectionate

character of Dean Milner.

    It is true, indeed, that no considerations of private regard

did or could induce him to entertain, for one moment, a thought

of acting, in this matter, contrary to his conscientious and deli
berate judgment : but he would gladly have been convinced, that
he judged amiss. With persevering benevolence he anxiously

sought for any evidence of improvement in the character of the

person for whom his patronage was solicited ; and being

informed of some circumstances of a favourable nature, he, for a

while, refrained from returning a decisive answer to his friend's

application. On so delicate a subject, it is difficult, consistently

with a due regard to the feelings of survivors, to give even
extracts from confidential communications. Could Dean Mil

ner's very touching letters respecting this affair be given entire,

they would discover a remarkable union of qualities not often

found conjoined. The most affectionate gentleness of spirit, is

combined with the most determined firmness of purpose ; and a

devotedness of friendship capable of urging its professor to the

utmost point within the limits of duty, is guarded by a tender

ness and sensibility of conscience perhaps never surpassed.
                                            may be quoted. " In regard to my
Iself,T" hweriftoesllotwhiengDepaanss,ag"e
                                            can truly and conscientiously declare,

that this business has, really, afflicted me greatly, and continues

to afflict me. That word is by no means too strong. It is an
Iinstance where am perfectly sure of my own disposition. My
634 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. jKTAT. 66.

meaning is this : my regards for yourself and for your near rela

tives and connexions, incline me, and that powerfully, to go too

Ifar in favour of      rather than to fall short. There is my real
                   am perfectly sure. The thing has been deeply
danger --of this

on my mind ever since the news arrived ; and that without the
omission or interval of a single day." * * *

     " Probably, this is the last material transaction of my life 3

Iand, with my views of religion, how should be prepared to

meet my Maker, having done such a thing ?"
--" Dear
           , It is exceedingly painful for me to talk at all
Ito a man's near relation in this way.
                                        hope you will forgive

me, and ever believe me to be your own and your family's very

sincere and affectionate friend."

     The regard expressed in the above extracts, did not evapo
rate in kind words. Firm as was his own conviction on the

subject, Dr. Milner resolved not to decide irrevocably, till he
had taken the opinion of one, upon whose advice he felt assured,

that, upon an occasion of this nature, he might safely rely. He

wrote, in the strictest confidence, a statement of the whole case,

to his excellent and highly valued friend, the late Rev. Charles

Simeon. Having communicated the circumstances plainly and

fully, without either extenuation or aggravation, he proceeds

thus : " And now, my good friend, the great, the single question,
is this, --Can I, with a safe conscience, thinking as I think on reli

Igious subjects, and knowing what know, and others know, of

the person in question, can I be the means of committing to his

Ipastoral care and superintendence the Parish of  ? Ought

I, or ought not, to hazard such an appointment ? The most

important event, perhaps, of my whole past or future life ! An

opportunity, too, never likely to happen to me again ! Further;

for my conduct, as it respects this event, I must very soon be

called upon to answer, to a gracious God whose providence has

afforded me this opportunity of serving the cause of his blessed
IGospel !
           beg you to give me your advice without the slightest
ceremony or reserve -- that
                   a
                                   is,

                                      I

                                                                      a
                                                                                 a

                                                                      if
                             with the sincerity of true friend,

and the fidelity of minister of the Gospel of long experience

and great wisdom in divine things.  feel to myself as all the

little remains of my life might, by my taking false step in this
            CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JET AT. 60.                                  C35

affair, be rendered miserable. My reputation for sincerity in

religion might be called in question, but beyond, and very much

above that and all other considerations, who can give ease to a

wounded conscience ?
I" I trust, may, with perfect safety, deposit in your breast
Ithese several and most confidential reflections.
                                                                      did not, at
first, intend to say so much as I have said ; but on further con
Isideration, have satisfied myself, that it is my duty to put you

in possession of all the circumstances which bear upon the case;

Iotherwise"yourremjuadingmaelwnat yws,oumldy  be less to  be  relied  upon.
                                              dear Sir,
            " Your affectionate friend and servant,
                                                          " Isaac Milner."

     Mr. Simeon's answer    isomf ahriksedchbayracthteer.ferv"idWzeerael  which  was
one of the striking traits                                                         he
writes, " my own father, and wanting bread, I could not do it --
II would not do it I" * * * " have spoken thus freely and

fully, because you wish me to do so ; and because the import
ance of the case demands it. ' We watch for souls, as those

Ithat must give account.' 'Their blood will require at thy

hands.'                                       and affectionately,

       " I am, my dear Sir,                            "C. Simeon."

                  " Yours, most respectfully

    A brief extract from a subsequent letter, written during the
same month of August, by Mr. Simeon to Dean Milner, may be
here inserted. It is interesting as displaying the princely libe

rality of spirit which distinguished the excellent writer ; and as

a sample of the correspondence maintained between him and
the Dean of Carlisle.

/" My dear Sir,             Ilooks hateful, and could have
    "On paper the word
Isoftened it in conversation. But obey your commands in

few  words, because   my time will not         admit of many words.
                     where there are          ten thousand souls, besides
     " Cheltenham,
63G CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. 66.

ten thousand visitors, or nearly so, is mine. It was to be sold
Ifor three thousand pounds, and instantly secured it : and the

Lord has raised up friends to concur with me; so that the

burthen is light.

    " Marylebone, where there are one hundred thousand souls,

is also to be sold. The price named is forty thousand pounds.

I hope to get it much under -- and, if it be sold so low as

twenty-five thousand, it is mine at this moment. * * *

    I" have great plans in view, and God is so prospering me in
them, that I am full of joy and gratitude.
                                                            yours,
               "" I am, my dear Sir,                        "C. Simeon.
                                       Most affectionately

" To the Very Bev. the Dean of Carlisle."

It is almost superfluous to say, that the application for the

living was refused, although "with very great pain," on Dr.

Milner's part. The last letter which he wrote on this subject

contains the following affecting passage.
" I trust, my dear
                    , that this will prove an absolutely

insulated transaction between us, which shall no way ever affect

our sincere regards in general. My prayers for you, and your

family, and your near connexions, are as warm and as affectionate,

-- Ias they are, or can be, for myself and mine : and now, dear
       , beg that we may heartily concur in putting to rest, and,

as much as possible, extinguishing for ever, the memory of

"Iwhatever has been painful in this transaction.
            am now sixty-six, and cannot have very long to live.

Humbly to surrender myself, mind and body, to Jesus, with

some degree of integrity, gratitude, and hope, is what I would

be daily endeavouring to do."
     Of the exceeding affection which Dr. Milner bore to his

friends, abundant evidence has appeared in the course of this

Memoir. His tender regard for those whom he really loved,

seemed to increase with his years ; and, far from needing the

stimulus of personal intercourse, appeared to be quickened by

distance and absence. A spirit so affectionate, although in

truth the source of some of the most exquisite of earthly
                 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. /ETAT. 66.                                  637

enjoyments, must necessarily, in this world of trial, entail upon

its possessor many pangs which are escaped by persons of a

colder nature. Dean Milner was at this period suffering the

deepest affliction in consequence of the reports which he

received "respecting the health of one of" his "oldest and

most inestimable friends." Mrs. Stephen, the only sister of

William Wilberforce, Esq., was dangerously ill; and the Dean's

"heart," as he himself expressed                                     was "brimfull." In
                                                                     it,

                                                                               a
answer to letter which had brought him very unfavourable

r.ccount of her, he writes:--"Your letter, just put into my
       is
              a
hand, that of an affectionate friend indeed.                                      I  bolt my door

to weep for some minutes."

    The Assizes at Carlisle of course occasioned an influx of
visitors to the Deanery--some, common acquaintance, some,

old friends, and others, strangers, bringing with them letters of

introduction. "The bustle of the Assizes," wrote the Dean,

on the 31st of August, to his nephew at Cambridge, "causes

such number of visitors to take up my time, that have
a                                                                    '
             is,
                                                                            I
             if                                                                 I

                                                                                     I
scarcely had an hour's leisure, and yet these visits are almost

all mere matters of form; necessary, however, in a certain

degree, that      not carried too far. But after all, frequently

recollect the wise remark of Lord Bacon, Amici fures tem-

poris.'

    " You are well aware, that there are few things which

dislike more in religious people, than that spirit of gossiping

which    prevails among  them                   great deal too much.
                         always                 right to cultivate an affable and
    "  It however,
       is,

                                             ;
                                           a
obliging spirit and behaviour. This, of itself, often produces

the happiest consequences especially when persons see, that,
notwithstanding your courtesy in non-essentials, you will not
flinch a hair's-breadth in essentials. Sensible men, and men of

principle, like you the better for this."

    It almost needless to observe, that Dr. Milner's conduct
       is

                                                                  ;
was habitually conformable to the excellent advice which he
thus gave. No man was more entirely free from a repulsive

strictness of demeanour in trifles and certainly none was ever

more firm and uncompromising whenever religious principle

was concerned.
638 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. ^TAT. 66.

It has been already intimated, that Dean Milner was per

petually applied to for advice on a vast variety of subjects.
     By an entry in his journal, dated the 9th of September,

1816, it appears, that to a student of divinity he had recently

recommended the following publications.

Works of Magee, of Dublin.

William Hey's Tract on the Atonement.
His (William Hey's) Tract on the Divinity of Christ.
The Baptist Robinson On the Atonement.

Doddridge's Lectures.

Paley's 18 or 19 Posthumous Sermons.

     Maclaurin's Essays.
     With respect to the Sermons here mentioned, it should be
observed, that the Dean considered the posthumous discourses

of Dr. Paley as very superior to any other of his sermons that
have been published. He thought, that they exhibited views
much more clear and correct of the essential doctrines of the

Gospel, than those which their distinguished author had dis

played in any other of his works.

    A subject which he believed to involve a principle of the

first importance in religion, had for years, and particularly

during this summer's residence at Carlisle, occupied Dean
Milner's mind. The religious world was then, as it is now,

agitated by the baptismal controversy; and the Dean's atten
tion, ever alive to topics of this nature, had been especially
called to this particular subject by the late Rev. John Scott,

with whom he had, at various times, conversed respecting the

sacrament of baptism, and who had sent him his book, pub

lished in 1815, and entitled, An Inquiry into the Effects of
Baptism, fyc, a book, writes Mr. Scott, '' on a subject which

you have repeatedly done me the favour to talk over with me,

and which is daily acquiring more interest and importance
Iamong us.  hope you will find that I have in some degree
Iprofited by what has fallen from you upon it : but shall be

most happy to receive your remarks upon the work, and to

take advantage of them, should another edition be called for."

* * * * " Many young men have been, lately, a good

deal harassed upon the subject of Mant's Tracts." In con-
             CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. 66.                                   639

sequence of the request thus expressed, Dean Milner, in a
paper of considerable length, communicated to Mr. Scott his

sentiments concerning the important subject under discussion.

Some of his remarks, ascribed at the time to the pen of " a
learned friend," were embodied by Mr. Scott in his Rejoinder,

published in 1817, to Dr. Laurence's Reply to his Inquiry, fyc.
On that Reply the Dean likewise made copious annotations,

which, with the necessary references to Dr. Laurence's pam
phlet, he communicated to the Rev. Mr. Scott*.

     Of the whole of the papers on this subject, communicated
on this occasion by Dean Milner to the Rev. John Scott, the
Dean himself thus writes:--"N.B. These papers are extremely

indigested, being written in haste, and under great disadvan

Itages, viz., a press of business,

    " They are (in general) my
                               frequent head-aches, &c.                           the
                               first thoughts as perused

pages of Dr. Laurence's book.

   "The general observations, however, have been for years
Ifpast turned over and over in my mind.
                                                                       they are of the
Ileast service to Mr. Scott on this important subject, shall

think my time to have been well employed." Dr. Milner adds

a  request,  qtuheasttiohniss,""phaepwerriste"s,sh"oualrde   be "returned"    to   him.
   Various                                                  often put to me  on   these
"

subjects, both by friends and others ; and it may save me both

time and trouble, to have my own papers, rough and unpolished

as they are, to refer to."

hadTbheeeng"enfeorralyeaorbssetruvranteiodnsovewr haicnhd,    as  Dr.  Milner declares,
                                                            over  in"  his " mind," will

be presented to the reader in the fullest confidence, that they

will be perused with interest; but a few words should be pre

mised with reference to Dr. Mant's Tracts, alluded to in the

extract above given from a letter of Mr. Scott.

    It may not be very generally known, that, about the year

1816, many animated discussions took place in the committee-

room of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, on
the subject of Dr. Mant's tract on Regeneration. Of these

* On the margin of a copy of this pamphlet, in the library of Queen's College,
   Cambridge, there are numerous notes in the hand-writing of Dr. Milner.
GiO CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. 66.

discussions, Dean Milner, who considered the matter as of

vital importance, had requested and received from a member

of the Society who was present*, a full and minute account.

It would be improper to make public a confidential communi

cation of this nature. Suffice it therefore to say, in the words

of the Dean's informant, that " Dr. Mant's tract on Regene

ration had occasioned great uneasiness in the minds of many

friends of the Society," and that " it had been determined that

some decisive step should be taken, on the first favourable

opportunity, for expunging it from the Society's list. This

design was greatly strengthened by the publications of Mr.

Scott, Mr. Biddulph, and Mr. Bugg; and by an anonymous
' Address' to the Society, on the inconsistencies and contra

dictions apparent in their several tracts; and the affair was

deeply felt by a most respectable body in the Church." Dr.

Milner's correspondent gives the names of the principal per

sons who took part in the discussions held on this important

topic, some of them persons of very high ecclesiastical rank ;

and he describes at length the mode in which this argumental
Icontest was conducted. He concludes thus: --
I Ifeel deeply in a cause which                confess that

                                 consider to be the cause of

vital Christianity. It is to the firmness of the general body

of subscribers throughout the country, (12,000 in number,)

that we must look for support. A few individuals in London

can do nothing, except as they are encouraged and counte
nanced by the mass of subscribers whom they may be said to
represent. The voice of truth seldom fails of being heard,
though uttered by a minority, especially in a day of reviving
piety like the present. May God our Saviour direct and

sanctify all our measures, if we should unhappily be called to
new discussions, to the advancement of his own glory, and the

welfare of our apostolical Church !"

The tract in question was subsequently published with the

obnoxious passages so altered as to render them much less

objectionable.
     The investigation of this subject preceded, and in some

* The present Lord Bishop of Calcutta.
            MlCHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1616.     At. Ctf.               641

measure led to that correspondence between Dr. Milner and
the Rev. John Scott, of which the " General Observations"

already mentioned form a part. To these Observations, some

remarks from the pen of the Bishop of Calcutta*, bearing

upon the Dean's judgment respecting the opinions of Dr.

Mant, will  form a fitting introduction.  Controversy,"  writes  the
             respect to the Baptismal
    " With

Rev. Daniel Wilson, "the Dean of Carlisle gave it as his

deliberate judgment, that the following passage in the Cate

chism was quite conclusive against the main statements of Dr.

Mant.

    " ' What is required of persons to be baptized ?
    " ' Ans. Repentance, whereby they forsake sin ; and faith,

whereby they stedfastly believe the promises of God, made to

them in that sacrament.

    " ' Why, then, are infants baptized, when, by reason of their

tender age, they cannot perform them ?

    " ' Ans. Because they promise them both by their sureties ;

which promise, when they come to age, themselves are bound

to perform.'

    " The Dean remarked that there was here, clearly, an hypo

thesis, a pledge, a charitable assumption of repentance and

faith on the part of the infant: on this assumption the lan

guage of the office proceeded ; and on its being realized, when

the child should be of due age, the blessings of the sacrament

itself were suspended.

    " Dr. Milner," continues the writer, " was much grieved at

the dogmatical manner in which the controversy had been han

dled, and at the hardy assertions made, that there could be no

doubt on the meaning of the Church of England with regard to

it. The fact was, he said, that the doctrine of the grace of the

sacrament had always been a question of great difficulty, and

more especially in this very matter of infant baptism, where

controversialists now affirmed, that there was no difficulty at all.

The Dean had, at one time, nearly determined to write upon the

* Vide Conversational Recollections of Dean Milner.-,-- Christian Observer,
                                        Juno, 1820.
                                                                                 2T
642 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. C6.

subject, and had actually begun to collect the chief publications

that had appeared. But his increasing infirmity of health pro
bably prevented the execution of this as well as of many other

excellent designs. He, however, on several occasions, expressed
his sentiments to me very strongly on the general question.
He thought that those who opposed Dr. Mant's statements had
not spoken out with sufficient distinctness, for to him it
appeared most grievous, that a minister of our Protestant
Church should thus be permitted, for the first time, to broach,
as the Dean conceived, Popish sentiments on so vital a point,
and to do this in a manner the most positive, and without any
charitableness of construction for those who differed from him
in opinion. He was decidedly of opinion, that whatever diffi
culties might exist in ascertaining the exact benefits accompany
ing baptism, we ought boldly and unshrinkingly to designate by
the term Regeneration, the inward change and conversion of the
heart to God, by whatever means it might be effected, and to
address those as unregenerate, who were evidently without any

spiritual life. This, he apprehended, had been uniformly the
language of all our greatest divines, from the time of the
Reformation. The Dean rejoiced in the important changes

which were introduced into Dr. Manf s tract on this subject, by

the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, for by these
changes (although he considered that the tract remained still, in
many respects, very objectionable), in point of argument, the
chief matter in dispute was conceded. In short the Dean
regarded the whole discussion as of vital importance, and as, in

effect, involving the grand distinctions between cold and languid

formality, and really spiritual religion."

     In the papers on the subject of baptism, communicated by
Dean Milner to Mr. Scott, the general observations are pre

ceded by between forty and fifty critical annotations on parti
cular passages in Dr. Laurence's pamphlet. Of these annota
tions, several appear, in the Dean's own words, in Mr. Scott's
rejoinder. Of the rest, although many are exceedingly pithy,
and suggest deep and comprehensive views of the subject under
consideration, they would be but imperfectly understood if read
without the opportunity of immediate reference to Dr. Lau
            CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 181(5. JETAT. 66.                                                    643

rence's work. The General Observations are here given without

abridgment or alteration.

   I" cannot but suspect, that Dr. Laurence (see page 5) finds

it much easier to support his favourite tenets on baptism from

the Articles and Liturgy, than from the Scripture. Had this

Inot been so, am convinced, that he could scarcely have helped

drawing into his service more of the Scripture. And, indeed, it

should never be forgotten, that as the Articles of our Church                                              '
profess themselves to be founded upon the Scripture (vid. Art.

VI.), we ought, in the construction of the meaning of any

Article where there may seem to be difficulty or ambiguity, to
adhere to that side which accords best with the Word of God.

Thus, should there be two ways of explaining the meaning of                                             v

the terms Regeneration and Baptism, as these terms are used
in the Liturgy and Articles, it will be right to attend to the

light which Scripture affords.

   " But I go further. I think, not only that Scripture ought

to be called in, to elucidate the meaning of our Church-prin

ciples, but, that we also should avail ourselves of the history of
the Church, and of the Reformation, for the same purpose. Dr.
Laurence, with propriety enough, makes use of some parts of

the history of the Reformers, but it may seem very strange, that

he should object to the fountain-head, viz. the Scriptures, and

make also so little use of the primitive Fathers. It is true, that

these last are of no authority, in the proper sense of the word ;

but they afford windows by which very important light may \J

frequently   be procured.  of  a  sentiment,  or of an expression,                                 may
            real meaning
    " The

often be ascertained by merely tracing its history and origin.

    " I greatly mistake, if Dr. Laurence be not open to just and

pretty severe criticism on the grounds here hinted at.

    "In the primitive times, adults were necessarily, for the

most part, the persons concerned in the business of baptism.
Of course there was, in their case, faith and repentance; and then

baptism closed the initiation; and moreover, baptism being, as it

were, the seal, came to be denominated regeneration, because

without the initiation or admission could not be complete;
it,

                                                                            2
                                                                                                2
the baptized person was always supposed, in the judgment of

                                                    t
644 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. 66.

charity, to be sincere in his profession of faith, and in his

repentance.

    " Now, to trace the manner and the circumstances by which

the baptism of adults led to the baptism of infants, has ever
been considered a very intricate and difficult inquiry in the his
tory of the Church of Christ: and it may not be going too far
to say, that the evidences in favour of infant baptism depend
rather upon the practice of the early Christians, than upon any

Idirect proofs from Scripture. This, however, think, is suffi

ciently clear, that the term Regeneration, which had constantly
been applied to adult converts, continued to be still applied to
infants, though it was impossible, that faith and repentance

could exist in the minds of those young subjects. It appears

to me to be very material, for any one who wishes to apprehend
the truth in this affair, to attend to the transition which actually
did, and could not but take place, in regard to Christian adults,
and the children of Christian parents.

    "The baptism of infants, which for a season, must have

been comparatively infrequent, in process of time, became very
common in the Church, and that of adults comparatively un

common ; and it is just here, that I seem to discover the origin

of the deviation of the term Regeneration, from its true Scrip
tural meaning. To 'be born of water and of the Spirit,' in

other words, to have Faith, Repentance, and Baptism, was

still called Regeneration, although two of the ingredients were
dropped, or necessarily excluded: and as our Church, in the

Baptismal Service, has thought proper to retain the term
Regeneration, it appears to me, that we have no way left to be
consistent with Scripture, but to maintain, either, that the rege
neration of infants is altogether hypothetical, or, that through
the influence of the Holy Spirit, in some way or other, either a
real moral change is produced in the child's disposition, or, at

Ithe very least, an alteration in the state of the child, &c., &c.

Istop, because the subject is difficult and obscure : and am far

from being clear, that any attention can unfold these ideas

explicitly --yet I am persuaded, that the truth is not far off, and

that some good thing happens to the children baptized, when
they are offered up with prayers by their pious parents or
            CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 181<\ /ETAT. C6.  645

Isponsors.  collect all this from the good-will shown to infants

by our Saviour himself. What Christian parent does not feel

his heart to glow at the thought of Jesus taking up his child

and blessing it ? Who would not rather have had such a thing

take place, than have his child the inheritor of thousands of

gold and silver ?

    " This subject is very important in a practical sense. Thus,
if the terms, Regeneration --Born of God --Sons of God -- New
creature --Conversion of heart -- and such like, are all allowed to

have, in Scripture, the same meaning, (which no student of
Scripture can well deny,) then, as it is impossible to predicate

these same things of baptized infants, whatever be the meaning

of Regeneration when applied to them in our Church Service,
it will be a most dangerous inference for these, when they shall

have become adults, to make, that because they were baptized

infancy, they possess, of course, a Regeneration, of the same

nature and efficacy as that arising from the baptism of adults,

where there is good reason to believe that faith, and repentance,

and baptism are combined together: that is, if in their notion of

the regeneration which they had in their infancy, there be implied

the being born again of God, sons of God, as stated above, it is

plain that they may, in this way, probably rest in very deficient

ideas  respecting  conversion of heart, and so delude themselves.
                   other hand, the word Regeneration could be
    "  If, on the

strictly confined to what is obtained in the baptism of infants,

there would be abundantly less danger; because, then, there

would be a specific difference between the regeneration of adults

and that of infants ; the baptized infant would, when grown up,

be led to look for the regeneration of the adult, and to see in

what it consisted.

    " For this is certain, that in the adult, faith and repentance

(conversion of heart), are absolutely necessary as a due prepara
tion for baptism ; for otherwise, regeneration is not complete :

but in infants this faith and repentance cannot exist. Yet still,

to keep up this distinction, with steadiness, seems almost impos

sible ; and, if not kept up, confusion, error, and danger, are the

                   if,

                                              a
inevitable consequences. Add to all this, that to preserve

sort of unity and consistency in the Church, we deviate from
646 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. jETAT. 66.

the ordinary meaning of the Scripture language, confusion and

danger are naturally to be expected. St. Austin, whom our

Church seems to have followed more than any other, distinctly

observes that regeneration is one thing, and conversion
of heart another; and this agrees with Burnet's observation,

near the conclusion of his Exposition of the Seventeenth Article.

    "This distinction of this great man (Austin) may help to

render more consistent some things which are difficult to be
explained. But, query, is this distinction to be found in
Scripture ?"

Further Observations, together with Quotations

                         from Authors.

" It will," I think, " be admitted, that it is much easier to

form a consistent system of the nature and effects of Christian

baptism, from Scripture alone, than from Scripture taken along

with any formularies of religious doctrine, which formularies are

of human invention.

   I" don't know whether you have noticed two very remark
able pages, (112 and 113,) in Sermon VII. of Dr. Paley's

Posthumous Sermons. In p. 113 he admits the interpretation

ordinarily given to our Saviour's conversation with Nicodemus

--observing, that there is 'a new birth,' a regeneration --and
that this ' is fairly interpreted of the gift of the Spirit ; but,'
says he, ' it is nowhere determined tvhen this gift is imparted ;
nay, the contrary is intimated by comparing it to the wind--

which is out of the reach of our calculations. We are, there
fore,' continues he, ' left at liberty to pray for the Spirit's help ;

is

          it
                          it,

                                                                                                 :

                                                            '
                                                                  it
                                                                              is
and we do pray for  under all circumstances, in baptism.

So also we teach catechumens and parents to pray for its aid.
We pray for in Confirmation -- and wherever
                                                                                                    imparted,

there the being born of the Spirit;' and so on, in pages 114

and 115, very remarkably.
     "These are hints well worthy of consideration; especially as

they are not clogged with any systematic formularies."

    " Op. Luth., vol. iii., p. 216, Edit. Jense Homo antequam

renovetur in novam creaturam regni Spiritus, nihil facit, nihil
              CHAP. XX VII. A.D. 181G. JEXAT. UG.                        647

conatur. Deinde recreatus nihil facit, nihil conatur quo perse-'
veret in eo regno. Sed utrumque facit solus Spiritus in nobis,   is,
nos sine nobis recreans et conservans recreates, ut et Jacobus

dicit, Voluntarie genuit nos, verbo veritatis suee, ut essemus
initium creature ejus. Loquitur de renovata creatura. Sed non
operatur sine nobis, ut quos hoc in ipsum recreavit et con-
servat, ut operaretur in nobis, et nos ei cooperemur. * * *
Verum quid hinc Libero arbitrio tribuitur? Imo quid ei
relinquitur nisi nihil ? et vere nihil.'

    " Here we have the true idea of co-operation agreeably to our
Tenth Article. Not as though God did part, and man did the
other part: but that God's Spirit changes the will itself,

working on men according to their nature ; that making use
of their faculties as human creatures, and not treating them as
stocks or stones, as some Arminians ignorantly charge their
opponents with maintaining.

     "Luther (p. 217) denies the existence of the least degree of
free-will in spiritual concerns. Ideo ad extrema eundum est
ut totum negetur Liberum Arbitrium; et omnia ad Deum

referantur.'
     " (225.) 'Liberum arbitrium nihil est nisi servum peccati,

mortis, et Satana;, nihil faciens neque potens facere aut conari,

nisi malum.'  Dicimus cum oraculo divino, hominem qui non est
              '
    " (212.)
                          '
renatus per fidem, esse carnem.'

"(172.) Luther observes, that would be tutissimum et
                                  it
                                                     '
                                                                  *
religiosissimum,' not to use the word Free-will at all.
" (ii. 272.)
                             Ita Baptismus neminem justificat nec ulli

prodest, sed fides in verbum promissionis cui additur baptismus,
                                                                         **
hcec enim justificat et implet id quod baptismus significat.

'"Quam diii enim vivimus, semper id agimus quod Bap

tismus significat, id est morimur et resurgimus.'

    " (274.) Luther answers the objection drawn from the bap

tism of children, who cannot either know the promise, or have

faith, thus, Hie dico (quod omnes dicunt) fide aliend parvulis
'

sucurri, illorum qui offerunt.'

    " He proceeds to observe, that the same thing may happen

to an impious adult, upon the prayers of the Church and he
                                                                      ;
648             CHAP. XXVII. A.I). 1816. jETAT. CO.

instances, that the paralytic in the Gospel " aliena fide sanatum."

But Dr. Laurence puts the qualification upon the innocence

of the child, which neither agrees with Luther nor with our

Catechism.

     "Melancthon, in his Apology for the confession of faith
offered to Charles V. in 1538, (Tom. iv., p. 184,) has these

words, 'Ex his omnibus apparet, quod sola fides justificat; id

est, primum consequitur remissionem peccatorum et reconcilia-

tionem propter Christum, et quod sola fides regenerat.'

   "Zuingle --I have not his works at hand; but see Milner's

Church History, vol. v., p. 522, &c., &c.
     "          ' The sacraments do not confer grace, but are public

        (523.)

testimonies given to the Church of the previous existence of

grac"e.Z' uingle was a great Reformer, and a pious man ; but we

should never forget, that the Reformation was but in its infancy.
Maclane, in Mosheim, exalts him a great deal too much*.

    " Luther's Catechisms are not in the Jena edition. To the

very last he approved of what he had written in his Catechisms,
and in his Bondage of the Will, (de Servo Arbitrio) against Eras
mus. In the latter pages of it there are numerous strong

ICalvinistic expressions, besides what have given.

    "Dr. Laurence quotes passages from Bucer's History of the

concord which took place between the Swiss divines and those

of Higher Germany. There was a very good meaning on both
sides. But that treaty was, in reality, very unsound ; and soon
after the subscription of the divines, a rupture took place

afresh. The story is long ; but note the vehemence of the mild

Melancthon on this occasion. (Milner, vol. v., p. 523, &c.)
    '"' It is of more consequence to mark what St. Augustine

says, because our Church certainly followed him much.

    "(Vol. vii., p. 56.) 'Sicut in Isaac preecessit signaculum

justitiee fides, et quoniam patris fidem imitatus est, secuta est in

crescente ipsa justitia, cujus signaculum in infante praecesserat,

ita in baptizatis infantibus, preecedit regenerationi sacramentum:

* This observation, as appears from a note in the manuscript, has reference to
                Zuingle's ideas respecting the doctrine of Original Sin.
ciiAP. xxvir. a.d. \8ic. iETAT. s '.  649

et si Christianam tenuerint pietatem, sequitur etiam in corde                1
conversio, cujus mysterium pra?cessit in corpore:' and, as in
the case of the thief on the cross, the goodness of God supplied
the want of baptism, so, in infants dying unbaptized, --' eadem

gratia implere credenda est, quod non ex impia voluntate, sed
ex setatis indigentia, &c.' * * * * he proceeds, --'and

as the sponsors answer for them, the sacrament may be cele
brated ; it will avail to their consecration, on the ground, that

(hey cannot answer for themselves. Hence,' continues he, 'it

appears -- aliud esse sacramentum baptismi, aliud conversionem

cordis.'

    " It is endless to quote from these wordy authors ; but you
will meet with this very instructive historical document in

Wall on Baptism.

    "This point is discussed at great length by Austin, in

answer to certain questions on this subject, proposed to him by

Bishop Boniface. It is a very curious document. The sum is,

that the Spirit of God which regenerated the sponsors is the
same Spirit which must regenerate the child. ' Besides,' says
he, ' the children are offered by the whole Church, as well as

by the sponsors ; and thus they are benefited. It is a sacra

ment of faith ; and, therefore, the child may be said to believe,

just as the sacrament of the body and blood of Christ, is called

his "boTdhyusantdheblSoaocdra/ment of so great a thing, is called the thing

itself."

     The" foregoing Observations constitute a large part of the
communication made by Dean Milner to the Rev. John Scott
on this important subject. The Dean's own opinion may be
collected from them with sufficient certainty. That opinion
is in entire accordance with the sentiments expressed in a con
versation on Baptism already related in this volume*; and is
declared with equal or even greater clearness in some of the

annotations upon what he considered the erroneous doctrines

maintained by Dr. Laurence. Of one of these annotations
the substance is given in the " Conversational Recollections of

* Chapter XX.
G30 CHAP. XXVU. A.D. 1816. jETAT. 06.

Dean Milner," already quoted. It may be properly here

inserted, as a brief summary of the Dean's views respecting the

nature and efficacy of adult baptism.

   11 In few words," he writes, " I conceive, that in adults the

substance of regeneration has actually taken place before bap

tism ; but as the new birth is said to require both water and

the Spirit, it may be too much to say that the new birth may
be complete without water ; that without baptism and this
              is
                                     is,

                                            it

                                                        is
                                                                   a

                                                                                                 ;
would be true, evert though the baptism were mere outward

form, and to be observed merely because              an ordinance of

Christ. But there reason to believe, that the Holy Spirit

blesses the due performance of the ordinance*."

    Other annotations discover with equal distinctness Dr.

Milner's sentiments  concerning     the              hypothetical nature\ of
infant baptism. For                                  heir of everlasting salta
                     instance, --  " By

tion, Dr. Laurence, with many others, understands the same

inheritor but they don't mean, they cannot mean, one who                                            it
    :
                  ;                                                                                      is
                                                                                                              aV iJ?
                      if                                            that
                                            it                      however,
sure to possess and so, how can                      be denied,
hypothetical regeneration Y' He adds,                          ;                                    a
                                                     " There
                                                                 is,
sort of lame Arminian answer to this." Again " What dust

is  here raised about nothing The good effect of the contract
    a

          !
                                                  !

                                           is
eminently respects the future disposition and future conduct of

the child.                                           engaged to the child, on the

    " A valuable inheritance

performance of certain conditions in future. The plainest tale

in the world

    "Yet blessing may be expected on Baptism duly per

formed, in obedience to Christ's ordinance."                   in the " Con
                                                               that " Dean
     The present Bishop of Calcutta has observed
versational Recollections," already referred to,

Milner had, at one time, nearly determined to write upon the

subject of Baptism and had actually begun to collect the chief
              ;
                                 is

                                    is

                                                              it
publications that had appeared." To this statement                                                  may be

added, that he not only entertained the purpose of writing

   * This " weighty remark," which quoted in the Conversational Recollec

tion, with some slight variations, here copied verbatim from the original in
Dr. Milner's hand-writing.
CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. jETAT. 66.  651

upon this important topic, but, in fact, made considerable
progress in the execution of that purpose, having left among
his manuscripts various papers bearing upon the subject, and
proving, notwithstanding their indigested condition, how deeply
he had reflected upon it.

     The following remarks, suggested by the perusal of a /Ser
mon on Baptism, by the Rev. John Scott, are valuable, as
forming an epitome of Dr. Milner's sentiments upon the whole
of this intricate and important subject.

    " Some members of our Establishment," writes Dean
Milner, " seem to understand the Baptismal Service as though

the blessing of a real spiritual change of heart, did certainly, and

always, take place at the time of baptizing the infant. I, how
ever, am disposed to think, that it is safer and more agreeable to

the very little that is revealed concerning the baptism of infants,
to be less positive on this head ; and rather to fall in with that
explanation of this matter, which is to be found in the answer

of our Church Catechism to the question, 'Why then are
infants baptized, &c, &c. V

     " 'Ans. Because they promise them, &c.'
     "This part of the Catechism is of later date than the former

part of the same Catechism ; and, therefore, may fairly be con
sidered as explanatory of any ambiguity in the same, or in the

public service.

     " With this idea in view, let any one reflect, whether, in regard

to the baptism of an infant, the case do not stand thus ; viz.,
that certain blessings of a spiritual nature are promised to the
 child, on the express condition, that, as soon as he shall have
faculties for the purpose, he shall comply with certain requisi

tions : these requisitions are, that he shall repent and believe ;
viz., the very same as the Church requires of the adult.

     " But this is not all. The godfathers and godmothers, in the
capacity, as it were, of bondsmen, engage, that the child shall

 comply with the said requisitions, when he comes of age.

    " Such is the covenant of the Baptism of Infants. It appears
to me to be hypothetical in the very nature and reason of it.

There is no doubt but that God will perform his part ; but we

 cannot say the same with respect to the infant ; though, on his
652 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAI. 66.

part, the best security has been given of which his age is

capa"bMlee. mbers of the Established Church should take together

all that is said on baptism in the Formularies of the Establish
ment ; viz., in the Baptismal Services, in the Catechism, and in

Ithe Article on Baptism. After much consideration, am con

vinced, that no other explanation than that just given does
accord with the several declarations of the aforesaid For

mularies.

     "There may be a method somewhat different of expressing
the same ideas. E. g. In the exhortation after the Gospel,
(see the Office for Private Baptism) it is said, ' * * * *
earnestly believe that he hath likewise favourably received this
present infant ; that he hath embraced him with the arms of his
mercy; and (as he hath promised in his holy word) will give
unto him the blessing of eternal life, and make him partaker of
his everlasting kingdom;' -- and the very same words are

repeated in the Office for the Baptism of those who are of

Riper Years.

    " Now it is absolutely impossible, that this should be taken

strictly in either case ; or be understood otherwise than as being
hypothetical. We cannot be called upon to believe, that uncon
ditional salvation will be the necessary consequence of the
baptism either of the adult or of the infant.

    " In short this exhortation implies a promise, and no more.
And this perfectly agrees with the Twenty-seventh Article, ' the

promises of forgiveness of sins and of our adoption to be sons
of God by the Holy Ghost, &c. &c'

    " Adoption to be the sons of God, is regeneration ; but even

in regard to the adult, it is but a promise, the virtue of which

depends upon his faith being a true faith : and in regard to the

infant the promise also depends upon his future faith.

    " C3' Then does baptism do nothing for the infant ? The

answer  is,   does a great deal. Is not great deal, that an
              is
          it                  a

                                it

                                                  a
infant, who by nature, under curse, and excluded from son-

ship and from inheritance, should be visibly received into the
Church of God, and be assured by Him who cannot lie, and

under the express sanction of Divine Ordinance, that though a
              a
                  CHAP. XXVH. A.D. 1816. /ETAT. 66.               653

child of wrath, there is still a promise of an everlasting inherit

ance for him, as an adopted son of God, provided he do but

comply with certain terms when he becomes of age ? Thus it
appears, that an infant regenerated, here, means, that he who

was disinherited and not regarded as a son, is again received as

such, in the sense just mentioned, with a promise of the Holy

Ghost,    and of   an everlasting inheritance.              *  *  regenerate this
          is very
    " It            plain, that the words ' *

infant with the Holy Ghost and to receive him for thine own
child by adoption,' * * (see the Office for Public Baptism,
after the Lord's Prayer) cannot possibly be taken in their fullest

and strictest sense. No man can say, in the full and strict

sense of the words, that God has received the child for his own

by adoption.

    " An important question, on this subject, may be, ' Is there in

baptism any moral change of the heart, either in the adult, or

in the infant V

   I" Answer. In the adult, if he be sincere, think it is plain,

that our Church says ' Yes.' ' Faith is confirmed and grace
increased by prayer,' --and if so, then there is a moral change.

But these words cannot possibly be applied to the case of the
infant. His faith cannot be increased, because he has none ;

Iand therefore, think, we cannot be certain, that he receives the

inward and spiritual grace of the sacrament, otherwise than

hypothetically ; though the possibility of the thing, and even the

                     it,
                                is

                                                   is
prob"aWbihliteyn  of     in many cases,               not to be doubted,
                   an  adult baptized,               there are, or ought to be, in
                                                                  :

                                                                           is
                                                                                is
                                                                                              a
judgment of charity, fair grounds for believing, that he actu

ally possessed of that qualification which will insure to him the

                       a
                                       is,
                                                  is
                                                         a
blessings of baptism-- that he                              believer he already,

(in part at least,) partaker of the Holy Ghost: therefore

he may be baptized. St. Peter (when with Cornelius) did

not withhold baptism from those upon whom the Holy Ghost

had fallen.

    " Whereas the infant in very different situation. His
                       is
                                 a

godfathers and godmothers promise for him, but he knows
nothing of their engagements. We may indeed hope the best,

from the good-will expressed by our Lord towards children;
654 CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. JETAT. 66.

but it deserves our notice, that the Scriptures do not allow us         a in,
to draw any inferences in consequence of what sponsors may
say: sponsors are not so much as mentioned or alluded to

Scrip"tuInre. word, when the Church says, Seeing that this child
is                               ; is
               a
                                       it if
                           '                  is '
regenerate,' the expression to be understood in the same

way as this other, God the Son, who hath redeemed me and

all mankind.' Both expressions,      we look to the blessed

effects, imply condition; both regeneration and redemption
a
                   a                                not to be denied but
imply faith in the Son of God yet

that foundation for faith may be laid, by the secret operation

of the Spirit of God in the heart of an infant."

    It was the remark of one who had ample opportunities of
observing Dr. Milner, that " he never even verged towards

dictatorial tone."      The   above exposition  of his sentiments on a
subject which he              for years turned  over and over in" his
                      had "
" mind," surely affords striking instance of that modesty, and
                      aa
of that eschewing of any thing like a peremptory mode of;a

expression, thus justly attributed to him.

The November Chapter was now at no great distance and
                                                    a
the press of business was such as might well have induced the ;

Dean to defer for short time his return to the University.

His " heart," however, being, as he again wrote to friend on

the 31st of October, "at Cambridge," he exerted himself to wind

up his affairs at Carlisle and, in the early part of November,

set forth on his journey southward. This journey was fixed in

his recollection by melancholy circumstance. Just before he

set out, the public papers brought the news, that the birth of

the child of the Princess Charlotte was hourly expected and,
                                                    !
little prepared for the sad event which was to follow, he made
                                                        ;
some observations upon the circumstance, indulging, as was

natural,  in  bright anticipations with respect to the future

prospects of the royal infant and the country. Alas he had

proceeded but day's journey on his road homewards, when
              a

the sound of the muffled bells of church prepared him for the
                                 ;a
intelligence, which, soon afterwards, clothed England in mourn

ing. Many persons might not have been personally very deeply

affected by such an occurrence but Dean Milner's feelings
           CHAP. XXVII. A.D. 1816. /ETAT. 66.  65 5

were tender in the extreme. It so happened, that, just at the

time, a poor woman passed his carriage, bearing in a sort of

panier   slu"nAgha,t"  her back, a  beautiful  and healthy, but half-naked
infant.                 exclaimed   the Dean,
                                               " what would poor Leopold

give were that child his !"

He arrived at Queen's Lodge on the 19th of November,

and was quickly engaged in the usual routine of College

business.
                               650

              CHAPTER XXVIII.

Religious Reading. --Examination of Candidates for       Smith's Prize. -- Recol
                                                        Chevallier. --Pulmonary
       lections of this Examination by the Rev. Temple
Diseases. --Their Treatment.-- Observations addressed to Charles Grant,
Esq., on Calvinism and Arminianism. -- Domestic Affairs. --Recreations at
Carlisle. -- Mechanics.--Natural History. -- Religious Correspondence and
Studies.--Letter to a Godson previous to his Confirmation. -- Letter from
Charles Grant, Esq. --Departure from Carlisle. -- Amended Health.

              A.D. 1817. JETAT. 67.

Dr. Milner's private reading, at this period, seems to have

been divided between theological investigations, and books of a
strictly devotional character. Of leisure, however, he had but

little. The time of the College audit approached; and the

annual duty of the examination of the Smith's Prize-men

demanded his attention. It is true, indeed, that this last

occupation cost him little in the way of preparation : he had

discharged it during a long series of years, and in addition to

the readiness which long practice must give, his style of exami

nation, according to the representation of many of the distin

guished men who, in different years, sat for the Smith's prize,
was, as he himself half-jocularly declared it to be, very much

" off-hand." The following highly characteristic recollections

of the examination of this year, most kindly communicated to

me by the Rev. Temple Chevallier, illustrate this peculiarity,

and are otherwise in remarkable consistence with those of the

other eminent mathematicians whose reminiscences of similar

scenes have   enriched this    volume.   After speaking in warm
terms of the                   and high  character of Dean Milner,
              " great talents

together with the great and beneficial influence which he exerted

for so many years, in so eminent a station," Mr. Chevallier

I Ithus proceeds : " was examined by him when was a can
Ididate for one of the Smith's prizes, in January, 1817-
                                                                   was

then somewhat older than when I sat for the Bell's scholarship,

and had, perhaps, become divested of some of that extreme

awe with which a Freshman looks up to such a man as Dean
          CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. /ETAT. fi7.       657

IMilner.  remember well, that his style of examination was
Ithen very peculiar. There were but few candidates,
                                                     think

four; and the Dean entered upon the examination in a familiar

and colloquial manner, well adapted to draw out what a man
had really made his own, in the course of his reading. He, of

course, set us to write down upon paper the proofs which he
required: but when he had given us a certain time, he would

make us break off, before the swiftest writer and readiest man

could have completed the question, saying, 'There! there! run

your pen across --I shall make it out.' And no doubt, having

to deal with men who had before been tired in the Senate-

House, and given proof, that they could finish the questions, if

they had time, he would be able, from what each had done, to
judge of the manner in which he would have completed the

questions; and by thus cutting the matter short, he was able to

get over more ground.

   I" remember well one instance of his manner of setting a
Iquestion, and, believe, his very words, although it is now

more than three-and-twenty years ago. Some robbery had
been committed in Cambridge at the time. The Dean being
about to set us another question, took up the poker, and
balancing it in his hand, said, ' Now, gentlemen, about these
rogues. Suppose you were attacked by one of them, and

wished to defend yourself with this poker. If you were to hold

the poker near the end, or near the centre, and then to strike a
blow, you would jar your hand and lose part of the force. But

if you hold it about here, and strike about here,' (showing us

how,) ' then it hits plump. Now I want you to find where you

must hold the poker, and with what part of it you must strike

a blow, so as to produce the greatest effect.'

    " This he accompanied with significant action, and thus

proposed to us, in fact, a dynamical problem of some diffi
culty, and put into a form which required, before it could be
answered, a perfectly clear conception of the principles on
which its solution depended : but very different from that in
which it would be presented in the ordinary books.

   I" The impression which his completely characteristic style

of examination left upon me was very vivid : and thought,

                                                2u
658 CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. 67.

and still think it exceedingly well calculated to bring out the
real knowledge which a man possessed."

     Throughout the whole of the spring of this year, Dr.
Milner maintained a frequent correspondence with Mr. Pond*,
and with various other scientific men, upon philosophical sub
jects. In particular his mind was occupied in considering,
and in making experiments upon many of the phenomena of
light. This appears from numerous entries in his private
journal --observations --orders for prisms, lenses, &c. &c.

     On the Good Friday of this year, Dean Milner, as was his
constant custom when his health permitted, preached in the
chapel of his college.

     This he did also on some other days, as Christmas-day,
Whitsunday, &c: and the performance of this duty he con
sidered as of very great importance.

     In the month of March he attended, as usual, the meeting
of the Board of Longitude, and prolonged his stay in London
considerably beyond its ordinary length, on account of the
illness of a friend. " His complaint," wrote the Dean, " is of
that sort which ought never to be slighted, as such complaints"
(pulmonary complaints) " often are in their beginning." Thus
far his sentiments were probably in accordance with those of
every well-informed physician of his day; but there were
other points connected with the treatment of pulmonary dis
eases, respecting which he held opinions which have only lately
become general among medical men. He maintained, for

instance, that there are certain places in the southern counties
of England, to which consumptive patients may, in most cases,
be sent, with better hopes of recovery than can be entertained
from despatching them either to Madeira or to Nice, taking
into the account the real inconveniences and petty annoyances
which must ever attend the residence of invalids in foreign

countries. He further thought, that in those cases in which an
abode in a foreign climate may reasonably be expected to be
beneficial, the patient should remove thither on the first appear
ance of the disease. To send a person in one of the later

                                    * Late Astronomer Royal.
            CHAP. XXVIII. A.I). 1817. jETAT. C7.                        659

stages of consumption to a residence on the shore of the

Mediterranean, was, in his opinion, not only to send him to

die there, but actually to hasten the moment of his death. It

should be added, that with respect to the numerous cases in

which circumstances forbid a change of residence, he was con

vinced, that many of the benefits of such a change may be

secured by strictly confining the patient, at least during the
winter months, to two or more apartments, of which the air is

constantly kept at the same temperature. About 65° of Fah

renheit he considered the proper warmth.

On Dean Milner's return to Cambridge, much College

business awaited him. Of his health at this period, he gives

the following account in a letter to a barrister, whom he sus

pected of studying too closely. " I thank God, that though far
I Ifrom well, suffer much less than used to do, insomuch, that
I am able to do business again in a moderate and tranquil way.

Let my example be a warning to you not to over-work
Iyourself, till you break down.
                                 have been much to blame in

that way."

For theological reading, the Dean, however busy he might

be, always contrived to find leisure ; and it appears from

the following most valuable and characteristic observations,

addressed by letter to Charles Grant, Esq.*, and written about

this time, that a subject which he had deeply studied for years,

occupied, at this period, a considerable portion of his attention.

            " Critique on F      's Sermons.

" General and concise observations like the following, are

made under great disadvantages, for many, and obvious, and

strong reasons, which reasons, however, cannot now be stated

in detail.
I"1. In the short preface and postscript,
                                           am offended by

an appearance of great self-complacency, and of something

which, at least, approximates to vanity. Affected moderation

and diffidence are the shelter of positiveness and confidence.

    " 2. With all this show of candour, there appears not to be the

            * Father of the present Lord Glenelg.
                                                                  2 V2
660"        CTIAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. JETAT. 67.

Ileast notice taken of the best argument of the Calvinists : may

call "it3t. heGior dfuinsdraempreensteanl teadrgausmtehnet.author of sin ; as having plea

sure in sin ; as influenced by nothing but an arbitrary sove

reignty ; and as acting at random, merely to exhibit his sovereign

power. Over and over, he repeats, ' I am aware,' ' I am aware/

&c. &c, especially in the notes ; but, to me, he seems not in

the smallest degree aware of the reply which is actually given
by Calvinists --viz., that God's motives are the general good :

and that more good ensues from the punishment of some, than

would ensue from the pardoning of all. How far this is a

sound argument, is quite another question; my complaint is,

that it is not so much as mentioned.

      "4. With this view you will observe, that a reply will

instantly occur to you, to most of Mr. F                                               's objections, as

you proceed in perusing his pages. How he can have over

looked what Fuller, Edwards, and Calvin himself, have so

largely insisted upon, is very surprising.

    " The Almighty never wills evil for its own sake ; that he

does permit its existence, and even, in some sense, will                                                   it,
cannot be denied because evil does exist. David Hume --no
authority, indeed, with me, in religious matters -- treats this sub
          F
                           ;
                            a
ject admirably, in little essay on Liberty and Necessity. He

leaves the  difficulty precisely  where                                                ought to be left.
                     triumphs in  the old                                              Arminian argument,
    " Mr.                       is                                                                         that
                                                 it
the doctrine of decrees totally inconsistent with commands,

threatenings, promises, &c.
      " fancy have studied this difficult question as much as
      I             began when very strong Arminian. Very
              I
                 I
most persons.                     a

close thought shook my Arminianism.                                                    wrote manu
                                                                                       I
                                                                                                Ia
script on the subject in 1780, which Mr. Wilberforce has never

been able to find. There no part of my studies which review
it is
    is                          pretend not to have removed all

                   ;

               I
                       I

                    I is

                                                                                    :
with more satisfaction.

difficulty but think have learned where to stop, fd" Calvin

much too systematical for me though, perhaps, the hardest

things which he says may have some foundation but am sure
                                                                                       ;

                                                                                           I

       not the system of Scripture to speak as he speaks, in many
instances -- for instance, when he says, that God created many,
CHAP. XXVJII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. 67.  661

for the express purpose of damning them. Yet, in other places,

he positively maintains, that 'there is nothing to hinder the

salvation of any man by Christ Jesus, except his want of will.'

    " The Scriptures are full of proofs, that an absolute foreknow

ledge and certainty of the events, are consistent with commands,
&c, for obedience, and with threatenings for disobedience.

    " God is the author of sin, in no other sense than as He is

the author of everything -- which is undeniable.

    " A wicked man wills evil, for the sake of evil-- God permits

the existence of evil for the sake of a greater good. The differ

ence is very great.

     "The very Arminian argument is stated by St. Paul; 'Thou

wilt say then, Why doth he yet find fault, for who hath resisted
his will ?' And St. Paul's answer is, ' Nay, but O man ! &c.
                's answer would be, ' He finds fault, be-
&c.' Now Mr. F                                                                                                                              «.

cause you abuse that freedom of will which he has given you.'

I should like to hear Mr. F. explain why St. Paul has not

answered the objection, in that very same Arminian way. He

would make sweet work of it !

    "In short, it is very plain to me, that Mr. F. has not mastered
the difficult inquiry respecting the freedom of the will. I mean,

he has not made himself master of the several best objections,

and of their answers. He should fall to work on that subject ;

and though no man can, as I suppose, completely bottom that

matter, he may, nevertheless, get so far as to see where the

hinge turns, and may avoid talking nonsense. Calvinists often

are too positive, and too harsh ; but Arminians, in abundance

of cases, have no meaning at all.

    " F. is not master of his subject.
    " Thus in page -- he says, ' I am fully aware ;' he is not at

all aware : for the Calvinist does not answer so. Again--

'This,' says he, 'is the only answer;' it is neither the only

answer, nor the answer.

    " Again ; ' How could it be said, that he had no pleasure in a

                merely from sovereign will, he did not alter
man's death ;  if,

                                                                                                                                         ?
the man's propensity.'

    " But suppose the King does not alter the man's propensity,
because he foresees great good from his punishment--how then
662 CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. -STAT. 67.

    "' A physical propensity to treason;' physical propensity!!
Sad stuff! Suppose my arm, --contrary to my will, --has a
                                                                's head ; I hope, in that
physical propensity to break Mr. F

Jcase, he will excuse me, whatever difficulty there may be about

free-agency -- should, most certainly, not be a free agent. Mr.
F. will surely see this 'at a single glance.' Next we have

confusion and positiveness without end, and a miserable shuffle

to  g"etWrihdaot fwtohueldSehveenstaeyentoth    Article.
                                              Acts, 2d
                                                          chapter,  23d verse* ;  here

is not merely 'foreknowledge,' but ' determinate counsel,' also ;
yet 'by wicked hands, crucified and slain.' If I had no other

complaint, than that this, and the like scriptural passages, are

totally unnoticed, I should think the author inexcusable in the

highest degree.
    " I"He talks of a ' mathematical paradox'                   or ' mystery.'
          will undertake to make any sensible                   peasant understand
this mathematical paradox, or ' mystery,' as he calls
                                                                       it,in five

minutes, better than Mr. F. himself seems to understand it.                          ?a

     "Arminians often say, 'Foreknowledge does not implyif it
decree.' But does not always imply certainty of the event?
And the omniscient Creator knows will be so, why does He
    if                                                    ' it

command, exhort, &c. They reply, He may have modes of

knowing which we are not aware of.' Ten thousand modes,                           I

dare say; but still, He does know, the rest follows. The

ques"tiIonnsteadnootf,ishow does He know? but does He know?
                        indulging in vague assertions, Mr. F. had better

try his strength in defining what he means by freedom of the        '
will self-determining power,' and such like expressions.
Such reflections would have this consequence, that he would be;'
       '

led to see the difficulties more effectually. He fancies himself

moderate, candid, and diffident whereas, think, perceive the
                                              ;

                                                         I
                                                                 II

                                                                         I
opposite tendencies.

    " From these rambling, indigested remarks, you will collect,

that see great difficulties in these questions. In fact, have
    I

Ifnever professed either one side or the other.                        differ from

* " Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God,
  ye have taken, and by wicked hands, have crucified and slain." --Acts ii. 23.
CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. /ETAT. 67.                      663

I Imany, it is in this, that hope have learnt where to stop, and
Ialso, that have attained some good rules for detecting non

sense."

Dr. Milner's health, precarious for above forty years, was

now, to all appearance, permanently broken, so far at least as to

render him incapable of any exertion which required that he
should leave his study. His mind, however, was active as ever,

nor did even his animal spirits flag. This was the more

remarkable, because, at Carlisle, where, as usual, he spent the

summer months, he had not, and could not have, that variety of

intellectual intercourse, which, in the University, was always at

his command. His correspondence and occasional personal

communication with the late George Bell, Esq., an eminent

surgeon of Edinburgh, was a source of much satisfaction to him.

He was fond of the society of men of the medical profession,
and his esteem for Mr. Bell's character was equal to his admira

tion of his professional excellence. Certain mechanical inven

tions, also, furnished, during this summer, amusement for Dean

Milner's leisure hours; and concerning matters of this kind, he

wrote several letters to his old friend and pupil Professor

Farish, recalling to his mind sundry discussions, which, in times

gone by, they had held respecting the lever, the steelyard,

&c. &c. and requesting him to try certain experiments, and to

make certain models, for which, at Carlisle, he himself had not

means or opportunity. During this summer of comparative

inactivity, indeed, man whose mind constantly at work,
a if,

                   a
                                   a

                                                     is
can ever be properly said to be inactive, the Dean likewise

applied himself to the study of some parts of natural history.
     These and similar pursuits, innocent and beneficial as they

were, occupied, however, but small portion of his time. They

were his recreations, not his employments.               His principal

voluntary occupations, exclusive of the necessary duties belong

ing to his station, consisted in correspondence, or in studies,

which had direct reference to religion. By letter, in parti

cular, he frequently declared and explained those Christian

doctrines which he could no longer proclaim from the pulpit.

The following truly excellent letter needs no introduction.
G61 CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. MTA V. 67.

"To my Godson-, Robert Isaac Wjlberforce, a little

                  "before his Confirmation.

                                                " The Deanery, Carlisle,
"My dear Robert,                                   " 14th August, 1817.
    " Understanding, that,
                                 shortly, you will be among those who

are to partake of the sacred rite of confirmation, and, at the
Isame time, reflecting on the relation in which
                                                 am placed
Itowards you as your godfather, make no apology for submit

ting a few thoughts to your very serious consideration on this

solemn occasion.

    " The compass of a letter does not admit of much detail ; and

besides that, there are many excellent little pubUcations on the

subject, from which your good parents will, no doubt, select

one or two for your diligent perusal.

   I"1st. would observe, that I do not think it advisable for

a candidate for confirmation to read many of the aforesaid pub
lications. One or two, at the most, will be quite sufficient.

IThere are many very good ones. One of the best, as think,

is the work of the Rev. John Scott, of Hull.

    " 2. It is very important, and even absolutely necessary,

that you should obtain a just idea of the nature of this rite as
directed by the Church to which you belong ; and for this pur

pose, it should always be considered in connexion with baptism.

In no other way can it be rightly understood.
    "3. In the baptismal service of infants, you are distinctly

to take notice, that your sureties engaged solemnly, in your

name, when an infant, that you should renounce the devil and
all his works, the pomps and vanities of this wicked world, and
all the sinful lusts of the flesh; that you should believe all the

articles of the Christian faith; and that you should keep God's

holy will and commandments, and walk in the same all the days

of  y"ou4r.  life.
              For
                    the  better  understanding  of this matter, you are to

take particular notice, that as repentance and faith (see the

Catechism) are essentially requisite qualifications for baptism,

it is necessary, in the case of an adult, that he should himself,

in a judgment of charity, appear to be a true penitent, and a
        CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. G7.  665

firm rational believer, otherwise he ought not to be admitted.

The infant is admitted, because, as aforesaid, his sureties engage

for him by solemn promise, which promise, when he shall come

to age, he is himself bound to perform.

    " 5. Now it is the solemn and sacred rite of confirmation

which renders the whole of this ecclesiastical regulation, a con

sistent and Scriptural system. Moreover, it answers all the

objections of the Baptists, who say, that none but adults should

be baptized.

     "6. There has lately been much controversy about bap
tism. But at your age, it will be much the best not to trouble

yourself about the intricate questions that have been raised.

Content yourself with the Scriptural account in these words,
' washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;'

and be assured, that the mere washing of water, if separated

from the renewing of the Holy Ghost, will be of no service.
On this subject there is a very excellent little tract, sold for

Ithreepence if remember right, called Baptismal and Spiritual

Regeneration, by Bradford. This author shews, that these two

things, viz. baptismal and spiritual regeneration, not only may be,

but often are, in practice, lamentably separated from each other.

    " 7- Besides the above, read over for yourself, the Office of

Baptism, the Catechism, and lastly, the Office of Confirmation;

and"weigh every sentence of them diligently. Then draw your
own conclusions, and put them down under heads, and as con

cisely as possible. By doing so you will both understand the

subject better, and remember it better, than by confusing and

burdening your memory with long comments.

"8. It  is,
                     is
                                      a

                                                             a

                                                         I
        however, just here, that wise and pious adviser

might be of considerable service to you, by judicious conversa
tion. You will not, indeed, want either advice or examination;

yet nothing in the world can supply the place of diligent private

prayer. And this the great point of practice which am

bound to press upon your mind, with all the warmth and

affection of one who has loved you from your cradle, and who

would rejoice to contribute single mite towards the peace and

comfort of his old friends, your parents, and the eternal welfare

of their children.
G66 CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. 67.

    " 9. Many times before the Bishop asks you the question,
do you ask your own conscience, whether, 'in the presence of

God,' you are prepared to ' renew the solemn promise and vow
that was made in your name at your baptism and to ' ratify
and confirm the same in your own person; acknowledging
yourself bound to believe and to do all those things which your
godfathers and godmothers then undertook for you ?' And if
you find, you can answer these questions with a safe conscience
towards God, you may then humbly hope, that the prayers of
your pious parents and of your sureties, offered up at the
throne of grace when you were baptized, have had a blessed

effect.

    " 10. Here, my dear Robert, I am brought to a most im

portant part of this letter of advice. When the ceremony is
over, however diligent your preparation may have been, and

also, however steady and fervent and well-directed your prayers
may have been, both before and during the short service of

Iconfirmation, you are by no means to suppose, -- as fear too

many do-- that having thus discharged with decency an impor
tant Christian duty, you are now, as it were, furnished with a
sort of passport for heaven, which renders you sufficiently safe,

and entitles you to be easy as to your everlasting salvation,
provided you do but, in future, abstain from gross vices, and
live as those people usually do, who are called good sort of

persons.

    "You must not so learn Christ. The 'renewing of the
Holy Ghost,' must be a daily, practical thing. The confirma

tion of a person baptized in infancy, and now arrived at years
of discretion, may be looked on as a good beginning ; but the

Christian life requires continued watchfulness, and repeated

renewings. The Holy Ghost is a tender spirit--soon grieved,
soon quenched : and His blessed presence in the heart is only

to be recovered by humble and incessant prayers. We may
rest satisfied, that if we do not advance in the practice of every
Christian virtue, we are not standing still. No Christian stands

still long. If he do not improve, he infallibly goes backward ;

and notwithstanding his having gone through the outward
forms of baptism and confirmation, he may still so decline, as
at last to become a ' cast-away.'
           CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. 67.                 667

    "11. In a word, confirmation may be looked on as a sort
of era in a young man's life. It is the very point from which,

on a review, many persons may find, that they have grown

decidedly either better or worse; --a truly alarming thought; --
a point from which thousands may date their improvement, if

not their very beginning in the Christian life ; and thousands

their decline in the same.

"12. Charge it then, my dear Robert, most solemnly on

your conscience, that you are habitually to pray for an increase

of the gifts of the Spirit of God ; that you may be daily under

his holy protection, and so strengthened and armed thereby, as

to be able to withstand the wiles of the artful tempter of man

kind, the dangerous allurements of the world, and, perhaps,

more than all, the deceitfulness of the human heart.

"13. In particular, read with all possible attention, the

Bish"opM'sayPrGayoedr',s  before he  confirms,  and also that  which follows.
                           choicest  blessings  ever attend    you, my dear

Robert.                                         " Isaac Milner."

The following extracts from a letter from Charles Grant,

Esq., referring to the critique on F            's Sermons*, which the

Dean had some time before sent to him, will be read with much

interest.

"To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle.

"My dear Sir,                                   " Near Hartford, in Kent,

                                                "September 15th, 1817.
" Retired here for two or three days from the hurries and
bustle of the town, the first thing I set myself to do, is to

thank you for the elucidations you have sent me on the difficult
subjects on which I was tempted to express a wish for your
I Iopinion.
           cannot say how much                  feel myself obliged and

gratified by them. On the very deep and mysterious question
Iwhich Mr. F-- handles,
                                     have never ventured to form any
I Idecided conclusions of my own.
                                                have not expected that

                            * See page C5i).
663 CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. G7.

I'                                            and, aware of its depth, and of the

                                         it,
should be able to fathom

powers and the knowledge requisite to that end, have not
                                              I

                                                  *

                                                         I
                                                               aI

                                                                  I1
made the attempt. The saying of an old Puritan, which met
with many years ago, had weight with me; 'When,' says he,

    have been at the grammar-school of Faith and Holiness,
will go to the university of Election and Predestination.'

thought that was the order of things, and have got but little
                              ***
way in the first stage.
    " My reading, however, has been, from choice, chiefly among

the Calvinistic divines, and my leaning has been generally to that

side.       have thought the Calvinists in Britain, from the time
       I

            I
of the Reformation, to have been the very first class of Chris

tians; and     must confess that the plain language of the

Scriptures, as well as the disposition of mind arising out of

self-acquaintance, and the infinite, gratuitous mercy of God

indisputably set forth in the Scriptures, all favour that system

generally.  do not, by any means, say that they favour every
       a
                                              was inclined, in short, to form
             I

                           a
dogma held by Calvinists.     I

something like universal conclusion, as to sincere believers,'
from particular remark made by the late Mr. Newton, in his

facetious way, on being informed of the tenor of Mr. Wesley's

prayers when he was in illness.               Aye,' said he, John was
                                                                           '

                                                                                             is,
always Calvinist when he was sick.' But, after all, this
       a

        I
                        a
with me, rather disposition of mind, than doctrinal establish

ment, and dare not venture to profess more.
     " With respect to what are commonly called the doctrines

of grace, there, hope, my judgment fixed, though the heart
   too often recusant but with respect to the higher points of

election and predestination -- there is, in this subject, an awful
is             I                              it
                                                   is it
                           ;
                                                     I
abyss, which makes me giddy when venture to look at       F is                it it   and

                                                                        ,          ;
it  has seemed to me, that must be left as we find in the

Scriptures, among the secret things which belong to God,

without attempting to adjust                  to human apprehension and

reasonings. But still the mind not uniformly willing to rest

in this conclusion.                                                           take to be

    " perused the discourses of Mr. -- whom
    aI                                                                     I

truly pious man, but cursorily, and had no idea that he had
not stated the argument fairly and fully on both sides. Your
          CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. JETAT. 67.  669

remarks, cursory as they are, have completely satisfied me that

Ithis is not the case, and therefore quite withdraw my confi

dence from him. They do more ; for they give me some con

ception of the nature of your own opinions on these deep

Ipoints, and certainly a curiosity to know more. But do not

say this by way of indirectly begging for further communica

tions from you. It would be too much to labour in this

abstruse mine for the satisfaction of an individual, who, as in

the present letter, can only return his ignorance for your know

Iledge. What mean to offer to your consideration is, whether

you might not do a service to the world by a treatise on this

deep subject, which would tend to lead men to rest where you

rest, and thus guard them both against superficial views, and

against intruding into things that are beyond the comprehen
Ision of man in his present state of being.
                                             am sure the work

would be a valuable gift to the public, and a memorial worthy
Iof your acquisitions and your powers.
                                        have written all this

without having Mr. F  's volume by me to collate with
Iyour remarks; and must, therefore, limit myself to this general

answer."

The remainder of this valuable letter, (occupying more

space than the portion above inserted,) has reference to

a previous communication from Dean Milner, respecting Mr.
Malthus's Doctrine of Population. Were that communi
cation before the reader, Mr. Grant's remarks in reply would

be read with much interest ; under the actual circumstances it

is needless to insert more than the concluding sentences of his

letter.

          am running on here, giving you, in fact,

your own opinions in less accurate terms.

    I" My drift, confess, is to arrive at the same conclusion as

in the other case, -- the benefit which would result to the world

from a good treatise on this subject, placing it on its right

foundations, and clearing it from the errors of writers who have
Inow much the possession of public opinion.
                                             confess it seems

unreasonable to propose to you two such undertakings ; but this

Ilatter subject, imagine, might be treated so as to establish all

the great principles without following other writers in all their
670 CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. fi7.

details of facts, and be comprised in the size of a moderate

essay. You have already gone a little into the subject, and
when you call for the notes you have been so good as to send

to me, they shall be forthcoming.

    " It is time I should conclude this scrawl. You may think
I I "it well
       don't  often write  to you from   the  country.
                           my dear Sir,
              " remain,

                        Sincerely and affectionately yours,
                                              " Charles Grant."

In the first week of October, 1817, Dean Milner left

Carlisle, and left as proved, never to return. Had he been
              it,
                     it

                                                                 ;

                                                           ;"
aware of this at the time of his departure, his affectionate spirit

would, doubtless, have been greatly moved yet, even in that

case, he could scarcely have looked back without solid satisfac

tion, upon  season after season of devoted and                    zealous   exertion,
in what he                                                             and  upon the
            himself called " the best of causes

happy consequences-- consequences stretching forward into the

depths of eternity --which, as he had good reason to believe,

had, by the blessing of God, attended his labours.

He arrived safely at Cambridge, and in better health than

he had for some time past enjoyed. His spirits, as has been

before observed, never   flagged.   On the    17th                of November            he
preached in the chapel  of Queen's  College    from                                     Go
                                                                   the words, "

to my brethren and say unto them, ascend unto my Father
                                    I

and your Father, and to my God and your God." He attended

the December meeting of the Board of Longitude, and, in short,

seemed to be almost restored to his pristine vigour. The

following letter to his friend Mr. La Trobc, was written after his

return from London.

"My    dear Sir,                         "    Queen's College               Lodge,
                                         "    December 13th,                1817.
    "   received your very kind letter
                                         at Kensington Gore. It
a

    I
                                              I

                                                                                     '
has pleased Almighty God to restore me from the condition of

miserable wreck, yet, in point of fact, have escaped, yet so

as by fire not fire, in the Roman Catholic sense of Purgatory,

but in the plain and legitimate sense of great and imminent
             CHAP. XXVIII. A.D. 1817. jETAT. 67.     671

danger ; as a man escapes from a house, all the parts of which
Iare on fire. Undoubtedly,
Ithankful !                 have abundant reason to be

             hope, I am not altogether laid upon the shelf, yet

my wings are clipped exceedingly, and very little is to be

expected from me.                                    I should
                                                     I should
    " I am sorry, you cannot come to this concert.

rejoice to meet you once more, though, undoubtedly,

shake your hand with grief flowing from my eyes, and still more

from my heart, on the remembrance of our dear friend now no
more*. * * *

    " May God bless you. " I am, dear Sir,

                                                       « Always yours,

                                                     "I. M."

     Mr. La Trobe, shortly afterwards, paid a visit to Dr. Milner,
who was well enough to have at his Lodge a musical party,
or, in his own words, " a small exhibition of tweedling," thus
proving, that his desire to promote the innocent gratifications
of others was in no degree blunted by the protracted indispo
sition which, during so long a period, had " laid a cold hand"

upon his own plans and enjoyments.
     The year closed amid the usual college duties.

             · Dr. Jowett.
6/2

CHAPTER XXIX.

Board of Longitude. -- Chapter Business. -- Friendship and Correspondence
with the Rev. Robert Goodenough. -- Dean Milner becomes President of
the Carlisle Church Missionary Association. -- Correspondence. --Modes
of usefulness. --Conversation. -- Family Prayer. -- Private Religious Medi
tations. -- Improvement of Health. -- Attendance at the Board of Longi
tude. -- Sir Samuel Romilly. --Meeting with old Friends. -- Letter to the
Bishop of Carlisle. -- Strong expression of satisfaction in the dispersion of
the Bible. --State of the Country. -- General tone of Newspapers
Dix-huit. -- New Churches at Carlisle. --Conclusion of the Year.  Louis

                                A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.

Is addition to his usual employments, much extra business

devolved, during this year, upon Dr. Milner. A memorial to
the Government concerning the affairs of the Board of Lon

gitude, occupied much of his time ; and as he soon began to
regard as exceedingly uncertain his prospects of again visiting
his Deanery, he was induced to arrange by letter many affairs
"which, in the ordinary course of things, would have remained
unsettled till the general meeting of the Chapter in the month
of June. The epistolary intercourse thus occasioned, although
frequently of an intricate and perplexing character, was, never
theless, upon the whole, a source of comfort. The Dean's
principal correspondent on chapter business, was the late Rev.
Robert Goodenough, a man for whom, from the very com
mencement of his acquaintance with him, he had felt an

increasing esteem and regard, and who entertained for him a

reciprocal affection.

    It is scarcely necessary to say, that the letters of such

correspondents often branched off from the business which
chanced to be in hand, to treat of more congenial topics; and
among these, especially during the later years of their intimacy,
religion occupied a prominent place. On this subject the
Dean, when requested to do so by a sincere and earnest
inquirer, was always ready to state his views ; and such a

correspondence has a natural tendency to cement the friendship
CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.                       6?3

of the writers. Examples of permanent mutual regard, where

that regard has taken root in early life, are not uncommon ;

but there are probably but few cases, where, as in this instance,

a warm and genuine friendship has sprung up between persons
of different habits and modes of life, and who have become

known to each other only in their declining years.

Ever anxious to contribute to the advancement of the cause

of religion, Dean Milner, in the February of this year, accepted

the Presidency of a Church Missionary Association recently

formed in the city of Carlisle. On this occasion, the Dean, so

far as regarded the clergy of the cathedral, stood alone. The

Bishop remained aloof, as did also the inferior members of the

chapter; and among the laity, few persons of rank or station

enrolled their names in the list of the supporters of missions.
With Dean Milner, however, such circumstances had no weight.

The great object in view, to make known to perishing mortals

the way of eternal salvation, appeared to him, as a Christian,

immensely important; while, as a minister of the Establishment,

he could not but rejoice, that the operations of this Society in

the attainment of that object, were conducted in accordance

with the discipline as well as with the doctrine of that pure and

reformed part of the universal Church to which he belonged.

    In the beginning of the month of March, Dean Milner

accomplished his accustomed visit to London, and, of course,
took up his abode at Kensington Gore. While in London, he

took occasion personally to consult Dr. Baillie, on the state of

his health. With that eminent physician he had long been in

the habit of confidential intercourse.

In a note to him written during this visit to London, the
                            being "
Dean speaks of  himself as           naturally of a very strong frame
of body ;" and              seems,   that a change of life in youth,
                adds, " it

from bodily labour to hard study, laid the foundation of severe

pains in the head, which began to torment me soon after my

first degree at Cambridge." The opinion thus expressed coin

cides with that pronounced so many years before by Tissot,

concerning the effect of "le travail soutenu de la t£teV

                · See Chapter II.

                                                    2X
674 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. jETAT. 68.

That particular effect had, however, at length ceased ; for Dean

IMilner goes on to say, " think it very remarkable, that though

afflicted for so many years, --more than forty, --with violent

headaches, which often altogether incapacitated me for busi

Iness, have now, for the space of two years last past, scarcely

known what a head-ache is."

Other complaints, alas ! had remained, or had supervened,

of a less painful, but of a more alarming nature; especially an

affection of the heart, producing frequently the most distressing

sensations ; and, to the sufferer himself, sometimes appearing to
threaten the immediate extinction of life. Still Dr. Baillie

maintained, that there was " no organic mischief;" and still the

Dean's constitutional hilarity of temperament remained, in the

main, unimpaired. One consideration, indeed, there was, which
Ifoccasionally depressed his spirits : "
                                          something,"   he writes

to Dr. Baillie, May 3, 1818, "cannot be done for me to good

purpose, my usefulness is at an end." Such painful reflections

seem, however, to have been, upon the whole, of rare occur

rence. Unless when under the immediate pressure of bodily

suffering, his frame of mind was certainly habitually tranquil
                       and "                            I submit without
Iand resigned      ;"          God's will be done, may
                           am  happy to have a God to    go to, let other
a murmur;"

things go as they may," were the natural and ordinary expres

sions of his subdued and chastened feelings.

    In point of fact, his usefulness, although,         perhaps, dimi
nished, was by no means " at an end." For               public services

requiring personal exertion, he was indeed incapacitated ; but as

"heinh"imhissel"f   declared,  with a strong expression of thankfulness,
                   chamber"
                               he could " still get through a great deal

of work." In the way of imparting advice, whether by letter

or by conversation, to those who consulted him, either on

religious or other topics, he exerted himself during the last two

or three years of his life with the utmost cordiality, and often

with the most beneficial effects. He likewise took frequent

occasions of holding religious conversation with such young

men, undergraduates, and others, as were within the sphere

of his influence ; and it may be added, that unless absolutely

disabled by severe illness, he never omitted to conduct in
        CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.                      675

person, the daily domestic worship of his family ; persevering,
to the last, in delivering, every morning and evening, a plain
exposition of the portion of Scripture which presented itself in

the regular course of reading.

    A gentleman, formerly a member of Queen's College, thus

writes
" Being without piety myself during the two first years of
Imy undergraduateship,
                        was nevertheless surprised that Dr.

Milner, who was reputedly pious, made so few allusions to reli

gion, and took, apparently, so little pains to imbue the minds

of the students with holy thoughts. At last I was convinced

that he acted upon this principle, that as young men are fan

tastically jealous of their freedom, so, to offer himself as a guide

where there was no predisposition to be led, was doing more

harm than good. Accordingly, he was not slow to observe a

gradual religious change in my temperament, and he sent for

Ime, ostensibly on another ground; and as a sort of postscript

to our conversation, asked me if had any reason for not

appearing at the Lord's Supper. He then very affectionately

sought to win my confidence, and entered into a long conference
Iwith me. Such a conversation took place twice.
                                                 afterwards

found, from young men of a religious disposition, that he had

frequently had earnest conversations with them, which was a

great   surprise upon me,    men  to the  most unbounded       con
        He encouraged young
    "

fidence. When they affirmed rash and untenable opinions, he

always threw down his eyes, appeared slightly embarrassed (as
through fear of seeming rough with them), played with some

article near enough to be handled, and then corrected their

error by a series of questions, as though himself stood in doubt ;

but the issue was always to leave the incautious speaker

ashamed of his haste.

    " Still he appeared to love incaution far above reserve,"

About this time a gentleman, a member of the University,

having conceived the design of setting apart a considerable sum

of money for the purpose of founding two prizes to be annually

given to the two commencing bachelors of arts who, upon exa*

mination, should be found to be the best biblical and divinity

                                                     2X2
676 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.

scholars, applied to Dean Milner, to whom he was personally

known, for advice upon the whole subject.

When the Dean received this application, he was confined

to his room by a severe indisposition, which, for several days,

had even disabled him from rising from his bed.  Under these
circumstances, he thus wrote, in answer: * *
                                                 * * " My

medical adviser assures me, that there is, in my case, nothing of

I Iwhat is usually called danger, but as am now sixty-eight,

consider myself as loudly admonished to 'set my house in

orde"r.'What may be the termination of this merciful visitation of
Ia gracious Providence, know not. Permit me, dear sir, at all

events to assure you, that for a much longer period than you

Iprobably imagine, you have possessed my most warm, and sin
cere, and affectionate regards.  will not fail, Deo volente, to

repay the confidence you repose in me, by communicating to

you my several thoughts as they have occurred to my mind

during the last fortnight, respecting your very pious and laud

able intentions."

This promise Dr. Milner fulfilled; but as circumstances, of

which no detail needs here to be given, caused all further pro
ceedings in this affair to be deferred till the spring of the suc

ceeding year, the suggestions which he offered respectinga
                                                                          a
may better appear under their proper date.
                                                                            it,
    In the course of the month of May, in this year, any linger
ing hope which Dean Milner might have cherished of being able

to visit Carlisle at the usual time, was entirely dispelled.
During that month he transmitted to Mr. Robert Goodenough,

the proxy needful to enable him to act for the Dean at the

ensuing chapter. Great was the disappointment which pre
vailed among Dean Milner's friends at Carlisle when the truth

was known; for notwithstanding the too well authenticated

reports of his broken health, they had, to the last, clung to the

hope of seeing him again among them, and even still flattered
themselves, -- so cheerful, for the most part, was the tone of

his own letters, --that his absence from this meeting of the

chapter was an accidental occurrence, occasioned by sudden

attack of illness, and not symptom of what the Dean himself
         CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.             677

knew and felt to be " a complete breaking up" of a constitution
originally so robust. His state of mind under this conviction,

may be   gathered   from the following  passage in a   letter to his
nephew,   dated in  the month of June.
                                          " We," he    writes, " are

not to have the management of things in this world, and it is

always our duty to submit, however mortifying and unpleasant
Ifto the flesh, circumstances may happen to be.
                                                       my health

had been better, my heart has been set, and that very strongly,
Ion performing many things that could mention; sed noluit Deus,
I Iand wish could submit as I ought, and as I am fully convinced
Iit is my duty to do.
                        endeavour, as much as possible, to avoid

the doing of anything which would increase my inabilities."

    In the genuine resignation to the will of God discovered in

these expressions, may, probably, be found the source of much

of that constant cheerfulness, which, to persons imperfectly

acquainted with Dean Milner's real character, appeared incon

sistent with the physical sufferings with which he was under

stood to be afflicted.

An interleaved copy of the New Testament, which, at this

period, lay, almost constantly upon Dr. Milner's table, contains

many brief, but often weighty remarks in his hand-writing.
Those which follow will be read with interest.

    "JoiiNxiv. 27. Peace. The last discourse of X*. begins

in the thirteenth Chap, and continues to the end of the sixteenth.

He had instituted the Sacrament --Judas was gone--None pre

sent but true disciples.

    " My Peace -- His own --literally the same as that which
He enjoyed --Not such as the world giveth --A new Covenant --
True Saints are free from condemnation -- no fears of the day of
Judgment -- They see the beauty of holiness --The soul is set
tled -- United to X'. --A Rational Peace --Not so that of
the world-- This Peace cures worldly attachments.

   XV" N.B. Forsake Satan's baits, and cleave to

" Acts xi. 23, 24. Barnabas --an admirable character--
' A g"o1osdt.mOabns'erve, He addressed real converts.
                                                       He saw the

grace of God, and was glad.
678 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAJ. 68.

" N.B. We should rejoice in like cases.
"2. Real converts --they were solidly so. Not Xtians at
times -- flashes --
"
"  3. It must be     the prevailing temper   at all times.
                     is an abomination.
   Partial reform
"4. The profession must be open -- Nowise hypocritical --

f^- Hypocrisy bad because it wants the power of relign; not

because it has the form.

    "5. Our Saviour prayed all night -- Condemns the Pharisees,

not for long prayer, but for making it a cloak.
"6. Persevere --
"
"  The Reasons always hold.
   1. The soul is to be saved --
" Religion--True--
" 2. No pleasure in the soul that draws back.

"3. Gratitude--
" 4. God ready to help --

                           "Roles.

"  1. Study the      Relig". of X*.             heat -- exceptions  in
"  There must be     knoivledge -- light-- not

the case of weak understandings--
" 2. Acquire a relish --
1' 3. Watch thoughts --tempers --
       " Presence of God.
"A. X*. necessary --Grace --'without Me' . . , 'nothing.'
       Avoid wicked company --
"5.    Attend to duties --

" 6.
"      Prayer --
"  7-                       let  not  us --
   8.  Though all forsake,
      " S*. Peter-- ' Yet will not V"

    " Romans vii. 18. (' For I know that in me, &c, &c.')

    "1. Strong proof of fallen nature of man -- Stronger than
' Create in me a clean heart'-- David a gross sinner -- Not so
St. P. -- A thorn given to him to prevent exaltation -- He prays
for its removal -- It is denied --No --you will forgi t your depend
                 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.             679

ance--Rely on Grace. St. P. had lived in good conscience as
a Pharisee --yet mourns over inward sin.
full"                                      system--

"
      Theorists only dispute against this

Daily grace, necessary as daily bread --
" 2. A fulness in X*.  of grace and truth--He is the
Head--Vine --Living water --Shepherd --Husband-- Brother --
    " Grace a small rivulet, fed with an everlasting spring.
    " X*. lives in XtiM.--and they are kept by the power of G.

unto Salvation --

"3. If sin dwell in us, then grace is the more necessary to

fight the good fight.

     "When Jesus was born, all Jerusalem, with Herod, was
troubled ; ' So,' says an excellent writer, ' when X*. is formed

in the heart, hell is in an uproar.'

    " The serpent's brood spits venom --wicked men mock and
ridicule--Expect all this --the world hates you--Rejoice --Trust

the Lord and be humble --                           in prayer  and
    "Believe in the sincerity of X*. --Be much

supplication-- S*. P. prayed thrice.

    " I. Corinth, iv. 7- (' What hast thou that thou hast not
received.') It may seem extraordinary, that men are often

disposed to value themselves most on account of those gifts of
God which are evidently, and entirely, the effects of the Divine

favour; such as strength, of body or mind, and other natural
powers; and also to undervalue their moral qualities; which,
they are apt to think, are more in their own reach, whenever
they may endeavour to acquire them."

" Galat. v. 24. (' They that are X* &c.')

"Moral, philosophical principles may restrain; but the

Gos"pPelraonyly  can  overcome lusts--

                 for  Grace."

    "Matthew vii. 21. ('Not every one that saith unto me

Lord, Lord, &c.') This is said to all mankind at large -- every
country--every age --therefore to us, as much as if we had it
from His own mouth. His fame had brought numbers about
680 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. jETAT. 68.

him --therefore He taught them the great truths -- 'Not Lord,

Lord,' but he that doeth. Many would say from their hearts
' Lord, Lord !' at seeing His works.

    " Consider Him in all His characters -- His sufferings --His
resignation. We must say, ' Lord, Lord !' So in affliction and
distress -- so when we look at the miseries of the world -- The

soul turns to God ! The concerns of religion rise in the heart.

Whatever be the causes, all are good --any thing better than no
religion -- Nothing here is against devout feelings --but we are

sometimes apt to say ' Lord, Lord,' at night, and fly in the
morning to worldly things --This is the weakness that Our

Lord   here guards us against.                no  man  despise  serious

    "  Religion should be steady -- Let

thoughts, but preserve them : there is a wide difference between

him who thinks sometimes, and him who never thinks. One

has  "beBguunt  --the other has not begun.             religion --true --

                we cannot be always employed  about

but let it employ your thoughts. -- In common life the avaricious
man is not always casting up accounts.-- The care of the soul
should be a steady frame or motion of the heart --
    " Be thankful for good thoughts -- But beware of impressions

going off--Not every one that saith { Lord, Lord.' "

    "James iv. 17- Talents and opportunities-- Sins of omis
sion aggravated by knowledge -- God's laws are for our benefit ;
not for His security.

    " Who is there that joys in the service of G. without regard

to the reward ?

    " Hail ! highly favoured, say I.
    " 1. Commanded not only to depart from evil, but to do
good"--2. Rich man and Lazarus --Rich man's virtues negative --

   "3'1 was a stranger --naked -- &c."'

    " 1 John ii. 15. ' Love not the world, &c.'
    " 1. May be loved in due place and measure --Love of it

excessive when it encroaches on the love of God --

    " 2. It taints the whole character --
                CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.              681

   " Not merely particular           ·   --
   " It is idolatry--       faculties

   " Friendship of the world, enmity against       God-- Love  of

the world.

    " A disease rarely cured --Age often confirms it--

                            "Cure.
   " The love of the Father is not in us--
   "Think op this --
   "
   "  92? Suspect prosperity and delights     --   of them.
      When afflictions come make a good
   " Keep heaven and hell in mind."           use

   "1 John iii. 8. 'He that committeth sin is of the devil;

for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the

Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works

of the devil.'

    " X*. in fact, attacked the devil in Paradise -- the promise
was made there --

    " 2. Expiatory sacrifices by Abel --

                                     Emblems of

   " 3. The Lamb of God--All the prophets prefigured Him--
   "In the New Test. John the Baptist bids defiance to Satan --
'
   Behold  Him who taketh away' &c.
            destroys the works of the devil.  --
     " He  He conquered him on the Cross
     " 1.
   " He goes on with this work--
   " By His doctrines -- laws -- and ordinances --
   "            example --
   "  By   His                           and
      By   His  death and resurrection,
           By His Spirit--
   "Jewish teachers burdened men -- Not so Jesus."

    The following letter ought not to be suppressed. It derives

additional interest from the circumstance that it was written by
the clergyman whose communications to Dean Milner respect
ing his own very remarkable religious experience, have already

appeared in this volume*.

                       · Vide Chap. XXVI.
682 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. jETAT. 68.

        "To the Very Rev. the Dean op Carlisle.
                                 "* * * * October 19th, 1818.
"My dear Sir,
" I never take up the Church History, particularly the 4th

and 5th Volumes, without increased delight and zeal, and holy-

confirmation as to the grand doctrines which are there discussed
Iand maintained. But when
                                 arrive at the end of the 5 th
IVolume, sigh; and a variety of reflections, pensive indeed,

yet not entirely without hope, (for while there is life there is

hope")   occupy my    mind.      Dean  is  alive,  God  be praised  !'  I

        For instance   ;--' The

--heard a good account of him the other day from his friend

Mr. . But what is he doing? Is Luther's Life, is the

History of the Reformation, finished ? Is it going to the press ?

IIs it in the press ? How should like to set my paper-cutter

to work in separating the sheets ! But perhaps it is not yet
finished : and who will finish it if the Dean do not ? Who

will be competent to the task? And shall one of the most

useful works in the Christian world, and the most dearly sought

after by the true friends of Christ, stop short at the most inte

resting period which it relates, and disappoint their fondest

expectations ? God forbid !

   I" Were the Dean's parrot, I would perch upon his chair
I Ievery morning at breakfast, and cry, ' Remember Luther.'

Were a mechanic sufficiently skilful, would construct a

clock to stand in the Dean's room, and solemnly to repeat

I' Luther,' at each concluding hour. Were the Dean's niece,
I-- have heard that he has a very affectionate one living with
him--I would use all the winning ways that women can prac
Itise with so much success, till had got the remaining volumes
Icompletely finished ; and then, would carry them myself in

triumph to the press ! * * *

    If" this letter require an apology, the name of a grateful

old debtor to the Milners stands below.
            CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAf. 68.                       683

    The summer of 1818 was unusually hot 5 and to Dr. Milner,
extreme heat was at all times distressing. As the heat hecame

more moderate, his health improved ; he continued during the
latter part of the autumn to regain strength, and by the month

of November was so far recruited as to be able to attend the

meeting of the Board of Longitude, the time of the winter

meetings having been altered from December to the previous

month. On his road to London, he " learned," as he wrote,
" the melancholy tale that Sir Samuel Romilly was suddenly

dead, from grief, on account of the loss of his wife." On his

arrival in town, he of course heard the sad truth, that Sir

Samuel had committed suicide. It is needless to say that this

occurrence affected him very deeply.

    In the main, however, this visit to London was not only of

service to his health, but was productive of some circumstances

Ivery"grateful to his  feelings.  day,"  says he, writing  on  the  7th
         met in town   the other

of December to the Bishop of Carlisle, "two excellent old

friends of mine, Admiral Colpoys and Sir William Scott. They

are members of our Board of Longitude. There is a very

vivid satisfaction in such unexpected meetings with valuable

friends."

     The whole of this letter to the Bishop is highly interesting,

and is animated by the buoyant spirit of former years. In
order to render the next paragraph of it intelligible, it is neces

sary to mention, that in consequence of illness, Dr. Milner had

been unable this year to preach, as he otherwise would have

done, the Anniversary Sermon of the Society for Promoting
Christian Knowledge ; and, that, the facts of the case being

imperfectly known, or misunderstood, some persons had ima

gined, that he had declined preaching this sermon, on account of

his connection with, and championship of, the Bible Society.

The Bishop having alluded to this matter, the Dean thus
replied ;--" With me, such circumstances would have no weight
Iwhatever.
            rejoice in the dispersion of the Bible ; and if

Providence had permitted me to plead that good cause, for the

IChristian Knowledge Society, from the pulpit, would have
684 CHAP. XXIX. A.D. 1818. JETAT. 68.

done so, bona fide, et bono animo, and without the smallest

approach to controversy."

     The Dean proceeds as follows :

    " I concur with your Lordship in deploring most cordially

the horrid desolation produced not only in Cumberland and
Westmoreland, but also throughout the whole kingdom, by

electioneering. The newspaper writers all verge towards demo

cracy, or rather, towards the dissolution of all good government

Iand subordination --principally, as take because lectures on
                                             !
disobedience to superiors are grateful to their readers.!

"What sad work                               making! Have you seen the, it,
        *                           is
             *                                                           !
                  *a ?
                                                          I
                         ;it B
answer to him We had supposed Sir William Scott to have                 *
                                                                                 *
been the author of               but Sir William himself told me, that

the author was barrister, named H                                whom he did not

know.

"How the papers abound with murders, suicides, kid

napping of children, and sedition also What a dreadful list

might one make out       !
     " Then the poor queen, no more
                                             and since               saw your
                                                                   *
Lordship at Carlisle, the Princess Charlotte gone

"Who does not pity rather than envy the poor King of

France. He has, no doubt, hard cards to play, therefore one

should be candid in judging; otherwise, cannot but think, that
                                             aa
would rather die thousand deaths than permit such scoun
aI                                             'I
      I                                                   a
                                                                a
          I

                           I, a
drels to be about me.

    " fancy Lord E. suffered in his mind exceedingly from the

treatment he met with on the trial of Hone. The younger

barristers, fear, took Hone's part great deal too much. Not

   little shocked am that, even in such place as this, sub
                                                                   a

scription should be going forward among the dissenters toa
defray the expenses of such man as that.

    "The victory at Waterloo was great blessing; yet peace

has not yet done all that we expected. The present and the

recent period remind one of Tacitus, Opimum cassibus, atrox

prce"liisO, f  discors   seditionibus, ipsa  etiam pace          ssevum.'       cata
                private   affairs one might   make out              lamentable

logue.  *
             *
                  *
CHAP XXIX. A.D. 1818. jETAT. 68.    685

   I" In regard to myself, am certainly possessed of so many
Icomforts, that it is with reluctance add myself to the list of

sufferers. My wings are clipped a good deal, but it does not
become me to murmur. * * *

                   I" am, my dear Bishop,

                                  " Your obedient servant,

" To the Lord Bishop of Carlisle."  "Isaac Milner.

     The last concern of importance in which Dean Milner
seems to have been this year engaged, was the promoting of the

building of two new churches in Carlisle. These churches,

which were greatly needed in that populous city, and towards
which the Dean liberally subscribed, not only as a member of

the Chapter, but also in his private capacity, have since been

erected.

    A cheerful correspondence with certain old friends occupied
Dr. Milner's leisure hours during the concluding weeks of the
year. With Mr. La Trobe, in particular, he exchanged several

letters ; and by that gentleman, as by other long-tried friends,
who could not but perceive that his health was rapidly giving

way, communications from him were now doubly valued. In a
letter to myself, written about this time, Mr. La Trobe thus

Iwrites: "How do regret the not being able to come to Cam

bridge, if only for a night or two, just to spend a few hours with

your uncle, whose friendship I value more than I can describe.

May God preserve to the University, the nation, and to his
host of friends, so great a treasure ! We see one after another
of the worthies in this nation departing from us to a better

home, where they meet with spirits congenial to their own;
and we ought to rejoice at it. But so it is, we would rather

keep them here than part with them, though we know that

they exchange this earth for a heavenly inheritance V
68G

                          CHAPTER XXX.

Examination for Smith's Prize. -- Board of Longitude. --Influence of Dean
       Milner's Character. --Visit to London. --Professor Lee.--Undiminished
       energy of Character.-- Increasing interest in matters connected with
      Carlisle. --Cheerfulness. --Benevolence. --Scientific Pursuits. --Correspon
       dence. --Letter on the death of Wm. Hey, Esq., of Leeds. -- Increasing
       seriousness and spirituality of Mind. -- Bishop of Peterborough's Questions
       to Candidates for Orders. -- Declining Health. --Visit of [the Chancellor to
       Cambridge, at the Commencement. --Correspondence. -- Professorship of
       Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh. --Testimonial in favour of Dr. Chal
       mers. --Testimonial in favour of Charles Babbage, Esq. -- Correspondence.
       --Bishop of Carlisle. --Disaffection at Carlisle. --Last attendance at tho
       Board of Longitude. -- Religious Correspondence. -- Vigour of Mind. --
       Last Examination for Smith's Prize. --Beminiscences of a Visit to Queen's
       Lodge, by the Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay.--Final Departure! of Dr.
      Milner from Cambridge. -- Last Visit to Kensington Gore. -- Recollections
      of nim by a Lady then visiting at Mr. Wilberforce's. -- His Vivacity and
       Kindness. -- Conversation on Philosophical Subjects. -- Exposition of the
      Confession. --Religious Conversation.-- Extracts from his Correspondence.
      -- Last Illness. --Death. -- Funeral. --Personal Appearance.-- Character.

                         A.D. 1819, 1820. /ETAT, 69, 70. |

The following brief remarks respecting Dr. Milner's style of
examination for the Smith's Prize, communicated to me by the
present President of Queen's College --the first Smith's Prize
man in the year 1819 -- entirely accord with the statements of

the earlier successful candidates whose recollections have so

Imaterially added to the interest of this volume*. " recollect,"
writes Joshua King, Esq., " that both I and Mr. Cooper, the

other successful candidate, thought the examination rather of a
philosophical than of a purely mathematical character. And

Ifrom the conversations which afterwards had with Dr. Milner,
I should say that his mathematical information was of a more
Ipractical nature than that of any other man know."

     The new arrangements to which Dean Milner's memorial,
already mentioned-f-, had reference, respecting the Board of Lon
gitude, were not yet finally settled ; and a frequent correspon-

· Vide Chapters XX., and XXVIII.  t Vide Chapter XXIX
            CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. jETAT. 69.  687

dence upon this subject, was still carried on between Dean Mil-
ner and Lord Melville, Lord Palmerston, the present Lord

Wallace, and others. The Dean, thinking, that it concerned the

honour and reputation of such of the Cambridge and Oxford

Professors as, by their office in those Universities, were actual

members of the Board of Longitude, that certain contemplated

regulations should not be carried into effect, spared no exertions

in this cause ; and his influence with persons of all ranks, pos

sessing authority, was, from a variety of causes, unusually great.

The chief ground, however, of this influence, and that which

even beyond his learning and ability, caused itself to be felt and

acknowledged in all quarters, was doubtless, the weight of his

character. A long course of consistent and praiseworthy exer

tion, oftentimes maintained under circumstances of peculiar

difficulty, and evidently springing from those Christian princi

ples which he had, for years, professed and defended, had, neces

sarily, procured for Dean Milner that unqualified respect, which

not even his talents and acquirements could otherwise have

commanded.

     Letters on an affair of business, like the new-modelling of

the Board of Longitude, can scarcely be expected to contain

much matter of general interest. In one point of view, how

ever, almost all the letters written by Dean Milner towards the

close of his life, are interesting ; for, in addition to the benevo

lent spirit which they discover, they, almost all, bear marks of

that Christian piety which was become not only the constant,

but the predominant feature in his character.

    In illustration of this observation, the following passage, in

which mention is incidentally made of a circumstance belonging
to the history of the Dean's early life, may be quoted from a

letter on the subject of the Board of Longitude, written during

the January of this year.

    " The Nautical Almanack, containing the lunar motions, is

the grand business of the Board of Longitude --a difficult and
Iintricate subject, which have studied most diligently ever since
Ithe year 1772.
                 have bought, myself, many expensive astrono

mical instruments, and have often communicated with, and

made hundreds of observations on the moon and stars, with the
688       CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. -ETAT. 6'J.

late Dr. Maskelyne, Astronomer Royal --a man to whom the

Icountry is exceedingly indebted, and by whom was engaged in

Ifmy "youtmhyfuhl edaalyths,  as a computer    for the same Almanack.     whole
                                              to be able to explain this
                              permit, I hope

matter, at some length, in print, as a reply to certain insinua

tions which have been most unhandsomely thrown out against

*****the Mathematical Professors, by persons who are totally igno
rant of the real state of the question, and who would represent

the Professors as altogether inefficient.                                 The
Ivery sincere respect which entertain for yourself, my dear Sir,

and for your most amiable consort, makes me peruse the con
Iclusion of your letter with much concern. * * *
                                                                     do not

Ispeak lightly or in any degree at random when declare, that

you have, both of you, my earnest prayers to Almighty God,

that He may be pleased to continue your happiness unabated.

I have been, for years, aware, that you do not enjoy very strong
Ihealth ; and do assure you, that since your marriage with this
Ilady, have, in my mind, congratulated you a thousand times

on your being blessed with so invaluable a help-mate to soothe

and palliate any draw-backs which you may meet with, bodily

or mental, upon your enjoyments, during your passage through

this fragment of existence, harassed and infested, as it too often

is, with numerous cares and troubles. Believe me, my dear

Sir, with sincere prayers for your happiness temporal and

eternal,                      " Yours,

                                              very  affectionately,  Milner."

                                                          " Isaac

    It has been already intimated, that the times appointed for

the periodical meetings of the members of the Board of Longi
tude, had been recently changed. In the first week of February,

therefore, Dr. Milner went up to London, for the purpose of

discharging his duty at that Board. He was, at this time, in

indifferent health ; and, as  he wrote        from Kensington Gore, on
the 5th of February, to a     friend in
                                              College, " left Cambridge

with a heavy heart."

     Having enjoyed for one single day, the society of Mr. TVil-

berforcc, Dr. Milner, on the Cth of February, returned to
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. jETAT. 60.            089

Queen's Lodge, and was speedily engaged in a course of stre

nuous exertion --of which the issue was not more satisfactory to

his own benevolent feelings, than serviceable to the cause of
learning and to the interests and honour of the University.
There can be no impropriety in stating, that the object of his
efforts was to procure for the present Regius Professor of
Hebrew*, the degree of A.M., by royal mandate ; with a view
to his subsequent election to the then vacant Professorship of
Arabic. The mandate was obtained ; and although there were

several candidates for the Professorship, distinguished both by
general ability and by skill in the Eastern languages, the accom
plished linguist, concerning whom Dr. Milner, on several occa

sions, declared, that he believed there existed not, at that time,
his equal, was chosen by the Heads of Colleges, in whom the
right of election was vested, to fill the vacant chair.

      Dr. Milner's successful exertions upon this occasion, afford
a proof, that the energy of character which had distinguished
him throughout life, remained undiminished in old age.

     In the discharge of the duties which devolved upon him, as
Dean of Carlisle, Dr. Milner seemed to become even more
earnest, in proportion as his declining health rendered it more
and more doubtful whether he should ever again visit that city.
In addition to his extensive correspondence respecting the busi
ness of the Chapter, he neglected nothing which appeared likely
to benefit the city of Carlisle generally. Towards all objects
of public charity, his contributions were most ample. Even
the private concerns of such individuals as, by their situation,
might be supposed to possess even the shadow of a claim upon
the good offices of any of the clergy belonging to the Cathedral,
commanded a share of his attention. Those secret and unpre
tending acts of benevolence, however, which contribute the
most largely, to the comfort and happiness of others, are neces
sarily of little public interest ; their best and fittest record, is in
the hearts of the grateful subjects of them.

      Many of the private memoranda which remain among Dean
Milner's papers, show him to have been, at this period, pecu-

· The Rev. S. Lee, of Queen's College.

                                        2Y
a690 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. MTAT. C9.a
       is,
liarly assiduous in his efforts to serve those individuals who
applied to him for assistance in their various walks in life.it

     In addition to the general motives which actuated him* ofa
Christian charity and liberality, he seemed to feel himself spe
cially bound by gratitude to that Providence by which he had
himself been raised from a low estate, to aid to the utmost of
his power those who needed, as he had once needed, " a helping

hand." This feeling certainly gathered strength as he advanced
in years, and manifested itself in the only manner which, in
his case, could have been convincing ; not only in acts of mere

liberality, however abundant; for he was constitutionally
generous, and, as it has been well observed, the giving of money
to the needy, was, in him, scarcely a virtue; it rather discovered
itself in the unquestionable form of energetic and persevering
efforts, demanding the sacrifice of time and personal ease, and

frequently made under circumstances of severe bodily suffering.
     Being called, during the first week in April, to attend the

meeting of the Board of Longitude, and finding his friend Mr.
Wilberforce " more than commonly engaged in the House of
Commons," Dean Milner was induced, in the hope of enjoying

some portion of his society, to prolong, somewhat beyond its
usual duration, his stay at Kensington Gore. This visit to
London was evidently beneficial to him. He returned to

College, if not amended in health, certainly refreshed in spirit.
At this period, his private diary, containing memoranda of his

letters, and of bis principal pursuits and occupations, in fact,
little else than register, occasionally written in species of
cipher totally unintelligible to the generality of persons, of
deeds of benevolence of the nature above intimated. He also,

at this time, resumed his correspondence with several men of
science, and corresponded with certain members of the Board
of Admiralty, concerning "the appointment of proportionate
rewards for ships going towards the North Pole;" and as proof
that he retained his former practical love of science, may be

mentioned, that there are, among his papers, frequent intuna-
tions of orders given to "Troughton," or "Dollond," to
execute for him, with sundry specified improvements, various

mathematical and philosophical instruments. A more serious
            CHAP. XXX. A .P. 1819. XT AT. 69                                                                  GUI

occupation was the correcting, afresh, of the History of the

Church of Christ, with a view to the new edition which Messrs.
Cadell were about to publish, One other subject there was,

which engaged his serious attention. This was the application

which had    been made     to  him, in]  the month of March, 1818,
concerning  the proposed       Annual    Prizes" already mentioned *.
                            "

The Dean's private memoranda show, that he had often, to use

his own expression, " turned this matter in his mind." On tha

21st of April, 1819, he wrote, at great length, respecting      1.                                            to

the munificent proposer, giving his sentiments as to the species        it,

of theological knowledge which was most desirable to encou                      2,
rage in young students -- the proper style of examination -- the
books to be studied -- the best modes of securing impartiality
on the part of the examiners -- and, in short, every point con
I

     it

                              is
                                 it,
                                          it
                                                         is
nected with the subject. This letter marked No.                                                         No.

which speedily followed          treats, at length, of the persons to

be appointed examiners, and other practical matters. Both

these letters would be read with much interest, but the fore

going slight outline must suffice.

     The second letter concluded as follows: --

" desire most sincerely to thank Almighty God, that he

has put into your heart to give this active testimony to his

cause, and to make this exertion in his service, now                                                    I in  your

life-time. Such instances of Christian benevolence are ex

tremely rare, and truly excellent. In regard to myself, very

much admire your patience with me; and further, with                                                          a

warmth and earnestness which am unable to express, beg
                                 I                                                                      I

of you to accept my grateful acknowledgments for the con

fidence which you repose in me, and to rest assured, that you

will always have my prayers, that the Divine blessing may attend

you  in  this, and in all  your   concerns.
                            my
              " remain,          dear Mr.
            I

                                  *
                                                                        ,

                                                                                           2
                                                                                                     2
            " Yours, with the utmost esteem and regard,

                                                             "Isaac Milner.M

                           Vide Chapter XXIX.

                                                             Y
692 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. -ETAT. 69.

     On the 27th of April, Dean Milner wrote to the present
William Hey, Esq., of Leeds, the following truly affecting
letter, in answer to a previous communication from that gentle
man, announcing the death of his father.

         "To William Hey, Esq.
                                       " Queen's College Lodge,
" My dear Friend,
    " Your two mournful letters,              April 27, 1819.
                                  and that of Mr. Dikes, are

befo"reWmiteh. the greatest truth I can state, that throughout the

whole of my life, scarcely any event has ever affected me more

Ideeply. If have been long in replying to you, the reason is,
I Ithat have had no heart to write. Several times have made

something like an attempt, but strong feelings have always

Ichoked   my utterance.    that  selfishness  has, with  me,  a hand  in
         am sorry to say,
    "

this matter, at least to a certain degree. Nor can it well be

otherwise. My own particular loss is much greater than, per
haps, any person, besides myself, can understand. My acquaint

ance with this holy man commenced in the former part of the
year 1775 *. My health, which had been excellent till some
months after degree-time in I774j began to fail in the autumn

of 1775, and since that period, not one single day of complete

Ihealth have enjoyed. Not but that this state of long-pro

tracted invalidism has been very consistent with many intervals

of middling health, and middling enjoyments and comforts of

various kinds.

   I I" don't know, that had ever in my life spoken to your

Ifather till came to Leeds for his advice in the year 1/75 : and
it is impossible, that I should ever be able to forget how kindly

he took me into his house, and put me upon another system of
Ihabits. From that time
                                 have ever considered him as my

most intimate friend and acquaintance. In short, it was in the

Irides in the morning, and conversations in the evening, which
Ihad with him, that learned to know the value of this most

                           · Vide Chapter I.
CHAP. XXX, A.D. 1819. jETAT. 69.  693

Iextraordinary man. To say, that did not profit by so much

private intercourse with such a man as Mr. Hey, would be

Imere pretence and affectation ; for, in fact, learned a great

deal from him on numerous topics, and especially on religion

Iand medicine. That did not make the due use of so great a

privilege, is, however, but too true, and will ever be my grief

and mortification.

    " The defects and negligences of which I had been guilty,

during my first residence in your father's house, were after

wards very materially repaired by numerous long letters which
passed between us, and, also, by my frequent subsequent visits
to him. Of these last you must remember many. My first
visit to his house was lengthened to a month, perhaps more ;
but afterwards they were usually not so long, sometimes two
or three days at a time, frequently a week, or ten days. Our

wishes to see each other were mutual, always. In my journeys

to and fro between Cambridge and Carlisle, we were equally
anxious to avail ourselves of the opportunity of spending with
each other many hours of rational conversation ; and often, on
subjects which had been touched only, or half-treated, by letter.
Alas ! alas ! my dear friend ! my eyes and heart, too, quite

Ioverflow while thus ruminate hastily on these things. Have

patience with me, and permit me to defer, for the present, the
dilating upon them ; although, notwithstanding the mixture of
pain, they carry along with them a melancholy satisfaction."

     Whatever might be his other occupations, Dean Milner
never failed to carry on a frequent correspondence with Mr.
Wilberforce ; and although he seldom, or never, wrote, even to

this long-tried friend, professedly on religious subjects, yet an

increasing seriousness of tone may be observed to characterize
the whole of the later communications addressed to him ; and

many letters contain short remarks, strikingly indicative of the

spirituality of the writer's mind. In illustration of what is here
observed, the following brief passage, from a letter of Mr.

Wilberforce to the Dean, dated about this time, may, with

propriety, be quoted. After speaking, with the openness of

entire friendship, concerning his own religious state, Mr. Wil
694        CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. /BTAT. 69.

berforce proceeds thus: "O, my friend! may we only be

surely anchored on good ground, and all the rest will be as

nothing. I rejoice in the very few words you yourself write,

towards the close of your letter, of loving the Saviour."

     Passages might be cited, with a similar view, from the

letters of other correspondents.

     Many were the letters which Dr. Milncr now received, of

warm congratulation, on the honour reflected upon Queen's

College, by the splendid attainments displayed in the Senate

House by   the Senior   Wrangler of the  year  1819; one   of these
concludes               your seventieth  year  you cannot  look for
           thus : " In

a flow of health ; but your mind, my dear Sir, is as vigorous as

Iever, and will, hope, long be enabled to exert itself in the

cause of Him whom, in your old age, you love, and serve, and
trust in."

     During this period of comparative inactivity in Dean

Milner's life, his letters are peculiarly interesting. The fol

lowing passage, extracted from one of them, dated "April

29th, 1819," has reference to the numerous questions which

were, at that time, proposed by the Bishop of Peterborough to

the candidates who applied to him for ordination. The passage

is highly characteristic, and, though originally written in confi

dence, may now be published without any violation of propriety.

   "The contest," writes the Dean, "which I had, long ago,

with the present Margaret Professor*, may possibly, by some

persons, be supposed to influence my judgment in this busi

Iness ; but, if at all know myself, that affair does not weigh

with me a feather's weight. * * * * The long printed

list of Questions to which Marsh expects distinct answers from

his candidates for Orders, are prodigiously too numerous, and

are calculated to puff the proposer, rather than to lead to the

instruction of young candidates, who, with such a multitude

of questions before them, will naturally be overcome with fear

and apprehension. Even adepts in divinity might well look on

them as, in many instances, captious and ensnaring, Difficult
questions about Calvinism, Arminianism, Anabaptism, and

           * The Rev. Herbert Marsh.
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 18111. ,ETAT. 69.  G95

 such like, are surely much better forborne under these circum

Istances. mean not, at present, to distinguish, specifically, any

of his propositions as false ; because, in general, many, perhaps
most of them, may admit of some sort of defence or explana
tion; but young candidates for Orders should not be drawn
into puzzling discussions of any kind, on knotty points."

      Manifestly broken, as was now Dean Milner's health, he
himself had begun to cherish the hope that he might be present
at the approaching meeting of the Chapter at Carlisle. This
hope was, however, soon, of necessity, relinquished. On the

I31st of May the Dean thus wrote: "Alas! am now com

pelled to say, and with great sorrow and mortification, that my

being present at the approaching Chapter is become quite, or

very nearly, out of the question."

     The same letter conveyed to Carlisle the Dean's " Proxy,"

empowering another member of the Chapter to act for him, at

the ensuing meeting.

      Although unable to undertake a journey to Carlisle, Dean
Milner did, however, venture to attend the summer meeting of
the Board of Longitude, and was certainly refreshed by the
brief intercourse which he thus had the means of enjoying with

some old and valued friends whom he met at Kensington Gore.
His letters, about this time, seem to indicate a state of health

somewhat amended. Some of them also allude to the interest

with which he had "looked over the mathematical works cf

some of the most celebrated modern analysts."

    It is scarcely necessary to say, that Dean Milner in no way

participated in the splendid "bustle" of the Commencement
of 1819. Some old friends indeed, he received, and received

with much pleasure, in his apartment : but not even the special
invitation of the royal Chancellor himself, who had never for
gotten their first meeting, during his own childhood, at Nice*,

could tempt him to leave his Lodge. In fact, the peculiar affec

tion of the heart under which he had long laboured, was now
so much aggravated, as to incapacitate him from encountering,
with safety, any kind of hurry, or unwonted personal exertion.

* Vide Chapter II.
696 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. JETAT. 69.

Dr. Baillie, who was his principal medical friend and adviser,it,aa
declared, about this period, that he had " scarcely ever, if indeedis
ever, met with a pulse so extraordinarily irregular." To thisa
excellent physician some of Dean Milner's most touching letters,                    a
during his declining years, are addressed. Such letters must,
of course, be for the most part unfit for the public eye ; yet, as
exhibiting the affectionate and grateful spirit of the writer,

there can be no impropriety in quoting the following passage,

with which a long one, dated July 15th, 1819, concludes.
     "Such kindnesses as yours to me, under such circum

stances, are absolutely inestimable; and however disturbed
my poor heart may be in many of its irregular sensibilities, be
assured there is still in somewhere, corner which full of

gratitude and sincere affection."

     Although incapable of bodily exertion, Dean Milner was
still as able and as willing as ever, to assist, by the weight and
authority of his testimony, the cause of religion or of learning.
The following extract from letter will be read with peculiar
interest, as coming from the pen of an eminent member of

profession, to the votaries of which, disregard of revealed

religion has frequently been imputed.

" To the Very Rev. the Dean of Carlisle.

" My dear Sir,             "Edinburgh, August 10th, 1819.
" presume you are aware that Mr. Playfair, late Professor
a
of Natural Philosophy in this University, departed this life
 II
some weeks since. The vacant chair one of infinite import
                           it is
ance, mean as to the way in which shall be occupied, both

in moral, religious, and philosophical view. There are manyaI,
candidates, but, believe, the two leading ones are Mr.
Professor of Mathematics in this University, and Dr. Chalmers,

the celebrated preacher. Much will depend upon the opinions

given by literary and scientific men.  *  *  *    *     Now, you

might be of very great use in promoting the best interests, not

only of philosophy, but of religion, in this way  :     you were

                                                    if

to write to the Right Honourable the Lord Provost of Edin

burgh, pointing out the importance, in this age of infidelity, of

obtaining such    person as Dr. Chalmers, whose religious
                       CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. JETAT. 69.                                                                      697

            opinions are well known over all Britain, and who, at the same

            time,  is,or reputed to be, (just as you can say from your own
                        $
            knowledge, or not,) well qualified for this professorship, by his
                           is
            acquaintance with natural philosophy.                 *                                                          The
                                                  %                     a*

                                                                              *
                                                                                  *
            truth is, our University stands much in need of help such as

            Dr. Chalmers would be, for                    overflowing either with scep
                                                     it
                                                         is
                                                               *
            ticism, infidelity, or indifference.                  I*

                " If you do not comply with my request,                   *
                                                                  shall be satisfied

            that your non-compliance does not proceed from indifference to

            the cause of religious science, even in northern University.
                                                     $
                                                                   $

                                                                           a
                                                                                 $
                                                                                               $

            " Believe  me, with much re"spYeocut,rsmvyerdyeafra"iStGihrf,euollryg, e

                                                                                                                             Bell.

            "N.B. If                                 succeeds, they may, perhaps, nominate to

            the Mathematical chair,                  who          by no means friend to
                                                     I
            evangelical truth."
                                                          ;
                In consequence of this application, Dean Milner, ever,

            anxious to promote, either directly or indirectly, the cause of  : is

            " evangelical truth," wrote as follows --                       I

                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                a
            " To the Lord Provost and the Magistrates of
                                      Edinburgh.

                " It with the greatest reluctance, that venture to inter

            fere in the business of an approaching election of successor to
a
            the late Professor Playfair.
    I
        I is   "In the first place, cannot claim much personal acquaint

            ance with Dr. Chalmers and secondly, the interference* of a
            member of the University of Cambridge in the appointment to

               vacant professorship in the University of Edinburgh, may,
            perhaps, appear liable to the imputation of presumption on

            my part.                                              think of taking any part

                " am just now informed, that
                       ;

                        it

                          I
                                           a iIf

                                                                                                                          ;
            at all in this matter, have scarcely moment to lose there
            fore, in a dilemma of this kind -- of interference or non-inter

            ference -- judge safest to add my feeble testimony in favour

            of Dr. Chalmers at the same time, by no means intending to
698 CUAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. jETAT. 69.

intimate any invidious comparison, or indeed any comparison

Iat all, with the other candidates, of whom, as hear, there are

many.

   I" Dr. Chalmers knows nothing of the step which am now

taking ; my connexion or acquaintance with him   I       as have
                                                                    is,
                                                                  I

                                                                           of
already intimated, extremely slight, and confined, almost entirely,
to little matters of mutual intercourse and civility. He was
introduced to me here, while on his late journey to London,

and since that time, he has, on different occasions, very kindly

procured for me, from Edinburgh and Glasgow, such books of

ancient divinity and abstruse history, as have greatly desired

to possess, with view to the continuation of my History the
a
              isChurchofChrist.                  of Dr.
                               athe inestimable
   " It                            publications          Chalmers  which

have long marked the character of this extraordinary writer, as

man of great genius, varied talents, and sound principles both

religious and civil.

    " Having never myself had the good fortune to hear Dr.

Chalmers speak from the pulpit, rely, in that matter, on the
                                   I
statements of certain excellently qualified judges, who representI

his powers of elocution to be almost unexampled.

    " It from Dr. Chalmers' publications just alluded to, that
is I
                is
                                a
collect, without the smallest diffidence or uncertainty, that he

possessed of very strong mind for the cultivation both of

mathematical and natural philosophy.                 see this distinctly.

But whether he have, as yet, laboured much in the particular

details of the difficult and abstruse parts of these sciences,            ;I

prete"nHdenhoatstopropvroendoutnocem. e, by the same publications, that he

knows how to use his knowledge of natural philosophy and

mathematics to the very best of purposes that is, to stem the
                                                 I;
torrent of scepticism and infidelity, which appears to be inun

dating this empire; and from which, fear, none of our

Universities are free.
" It
         is     lamentable truth, that mere cold attainments in
             a

mathematical science are by no means security against either
                                   is
                                         a
unsound divinity, or unsound principles of civil government

Dr. Chalmers' knowledge, however,                both admirably digested,
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. JETAT. P9.  699

and, in its own nature, admirably fitted for use in these trying
times.

   "If the electors at Edinburgh shall judge it expedient to
Ichoose Dr. Chalmers to fill the vacant chair, he will, as con

fidently hope, prove, under Providence, a blessing to their Uni

versity and to the empire at large.

   "A sincere regard, on my part, for the promotion of true

religion, and an earnest zeal for the honour and credit of our

Universities, will, I trust, protect me against every suspicion of

a presumptuous interference on this occasion.

                                                   " Isaac Milner."

     In favour of Charles Babbage, Esq., a candidate for the
Edinburgh professorship of Mathematics, vacated by Professor
Leslie, Dean Milner addressed to the electors, the following
Testimonial : --

    " I, Isaac Milner, D.D., F.R.S., Dean of Carlisle, President

of Queen's College, and Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in
the University of Cambridge, having been informed, that Mr.
Professor Leslie has succeeded to the professorship lately be
come vacant through the decease of the late Professor Playfair ;

and further, having been requested to certify what I know of

the character, abilities, and attainments, of Mr. Charles Bab

bage, who is at present a candidate for the professorship vacated

by the aforesaid Mr. Professor Leslie, --have no hesitation in

Iasserting, that though have myself no personal acquaintance

with Mr. Babbage, yet, that my residence in the University of
Cambridge, and my knowledge of Mr. B.'s connexions, furnish

me with positive and very ample evidence both of the excel
lence of Mr. Babbage's abilities, and of his general good
character; and further enable me to state, that Mr. Babbage's
talents and attainments, as a person of profound knowledge and
extensive acquirements in difficult branches of mathematics and

general science, must unquestionably place him in the very

highest rank of philosophers of the present time.

    " This testimony to the merits of Mr. Babbage by no means
rests upon my mere assertion. It is fully justified by several
interesting publications of Mr, Babbage, which promise very
7oo  CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. ^ETAT. 69.

considerable improvements  in subjects of difficult inves
tigation.
                                         " Isaac Milner."

     During this, the last summer of his life, Dean Milner was

gratified by visits, short indeed, but, to his affectionate spirit,

highly refreshing, from two old and much loved friends, Mr. La
Trobe and Mr. Wilberforce. Mr. Wilberforce, indeed, visited

him twice ; the second time after passing some days, in com
pany with the Duke of Gloucester, at the residence of Lady
Olivia Sparrow. The Dean had himself been earnestly pressed
by her Ladyship to join the same brilliant party ; but the state
of his health forbade any such exertion. To this it may be
added, that although his conversational powers retained their
former brilliancy, the desire to shine in company, as well as the
pleasure which he had unquestionably been accustomed to
receive from successes of that kind, was much moderated.

     The disaffection prevailing at Carlisle and in its neighbour
hood, and, indeed, at this period, notoriously prevalent in
various other parts of the empire, was contemplated by Dean
Milner with serious apprehension ; and it can scarcely be neces
sary to add, that he was ever ready to concur in any well-
digested plan which had for its object the support of the con
stituted authorities, and the maintenance of social order. The

following highly characteristic letters exhibit the strength of his

feeling on this subject.

     "To the Right Hon. the Earl, of Lonsdale.

"My dear Lord,                            " Queen's College Lodge,
   " I am much gratified                       "VJtk Oct. 1819.

                           by your Lordship's communication
received this morning, and I do not omit a single post to signify

my most hearty concurrence in the sentiments of the printed

document with which your Lordship has favoured me*.

   " I trust I shall be informed in due time, in what way my

signature may, with the least trouble, be added to the list of

     * An Address to the Prince Regent.
                 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. /ETAT. 69.                   7oi

Ithose who are not yet gone stark mad.       really do not think

the expression is too strong, or can be thought so, while there

shall exist any memoranda of the late French folly, madness,

and barbarity.

"That persons of rank and education should decide so

peremptorily respecting the Manchester business, surpasses my

understanding. They talk of inquiry; but can anything be

plainer than that every soul of them would be rejected from a

panel of unprejudiced jurors?

                         " I remain, my dear Lord,

             " Your Lordship's faithful and obedient servant,
                                                    " Isaac Milner."

     To the same nobleman, on the same business, the Dean
wrote again as follows:--

" My dear Earl,                              " Queen's College Lodge,
                                                "24/A October, 1819.
" Surely these are not times for the sound friends of the

constitution to permit cold water to be thrown on their exer

tions  by an excessive scrupulosity.  firm,  open,  and  decisive,  to  all

    "  A temperate resistance, yet

this detestable wild-fire, is most loudly called for ; and I wish I

knew how to serve the good cause more effectually than by the

Imere adding of my name. My name, however, shall be most

happy  to  add,  upon  being informed when and how.
                                " I am, my Lord,
                       " Your                            servant,
                               Lordship's obedient

"Earl of Lonsdale"                                  "Isaac Milner."

Some of the radical demonstrations at Carlisle were of a

"Iseriously alarming character. With reference to them, Mr.
Robert Goodenough thus wrote to the Dean:                have been
Ibold enough to print a sermon which lately preached in the
Icathedral. In these perilous times,
                                             consider it to be the

bounden duty of every man to do what he can to stem the

torrent of infatuation which pervades the minds of the lower

orders."

   I" On the subject of the sermon, which beg you to accept
702 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. JETAT. 69.

as a feeble mark of my regard, you will very much oblige me by-
pulling it to pieces, and by telling me of its faults. You will
thus do me good hereafter and it is one of the kindest offices of
friendship."

     Such a state of things as that which existed at Carlisle,
might well have deterred a person in the Dean's very precarious
state of health from all thought of venturing upon a residence

there. In fact, however, the accounts which he received of its

condition, decidedly increased his anxiety to be once more at his
post in that distracted city; and he indulged, with some degree
of confidence, the hope, that he might, during the ensuing
spring, visit his deanery. This hope was the less extravagant,
since in one of the convalescent intervals which often inter

vened between his more severe attacks of indisposition, and
which never failed to cheer his very elastic spirits, he did
actually find himself able, in the second week of November, to
attend the meeting of the Board of Longitude, and to pass a few
days at Kensington Gore.

     The following passage is extracted from a letter written soon

after his return to Cambridge.

                "To John Pearson, Esq.

" My dear Sir,            ""Qluletehn'sNoCvoelmlebgeer,Lo1d8g1e9,.
I" have not often been more mortified than by the disap
Ipointment
            suffered in London last week, from the peculiar

circumstances which concurred to deprive us of a cool and

deliberate interview, on a subject that so much required dispas

sionate reflection.

   I" At present, mean to confine myself to a single point, in

consequence of your having observed, 'that we are not authorized,

in speaking of the Divine attributes, to use the same terms, in

the sense in which we are accustomed to apply them to the

operations of the human mind.' This, if taken strictly, may be

Itrue; but, if do not greatly mistake, much caution will, never

theless, be requisite, lest we should carry the matter too far,

and in so doing, draw rash and incorrect, perhaps altogether

groundless, conclusions.
                cnAP. xxx. a.D. 1819. jF,tat. C9.            703

    " To explain myself fully may not be easy; but yet it may

have its uses to keep in mind, that all which we know of the

operations of the Divine mind is to be collected from observa

tions, made with diligence and sobriety, upon what passes in our
                IRemember
own minds.                                         am not speaking of the moral

attributes of the Deity, but of his natural attributes. Thus, we

find in ourselves some slender capacities for exertions of power

and knowledge; now in our considerations respecting Almighty

God, what can we do more than increase these petty capacities

of our own, without limit?

   "A man can make a ship in the great, or a watch in
Ithe little; but God makes an insect, or a world, and can

conceive no bounds to his power. Even in his moral attributes
Iwe can do nothing but reason in a similar way.
                                                             am compelled

to break off."

It has been already observed, that the fervent piety which

had long been a governing principle of Dean Milner's conduct,

was manifested towards the close of his life in almost every

letter which he wrote. On the 12th of December, 1819,

writing to a worthy clergyman, whose doctrine and practice had

brought upon him, as he had represented, some unjust attacks,

he thus expresses himself: -- "What a grievous thing it is, that

there should exist such a spirit of opposition against Christi
anity and Gospel truth ! Let us nevertheless fight ' the good
fight,' and remember always, that He reigneth, and will reign.

God be praised ! All that we have to mind that our confidence
1
      a

                              '

                                                    ;
                                                             a

                                                                         is,
                                                                                                          is
be founded in the truth that our cause be the cause of God.

  have only to add, Be faithful unto death.' "

Respecting the sermon preached and published by the Rev.

Robert Goodenough, with view to the allaying of the pre

vbeaeilningreqpuoelsitteicdaltoex"cipteumlletnot,    which   sermon Dean Milner had
                                                   pieces,"
                                                             he addressed to its author,

in tone of the warmest Christian friendship, the following

observations.

" The           " Queen's                          College Lodge, December 28, 1819.
                                                   my dear Sir, in which you request
       friendly manner,

me to give you my sentiments on your late publication,
704 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. JETAT. 60.

Iexceedingly flattering.         usually undertake such a task with

much reluctance: and the reason           is, that to be quite honest in
                                            is
one's animadversions, where there much to find fault with,

must always be painful; and even where, on the other hand,

there   is is real room for commendation, and where one might
            is
suppose, that the task of criticism would be agreeable, my
mind so constituted, that the very idea of being suspected of

flattery        apt to hang like a dead weight upon spirit of
                                 is,
                                                               is

                                                                               a
freedom, and to cramp ingenuous reflection.
    " My first observation
                                 that every passage of your dis

course hangs completely well together: and this, though an

indispensable ingredient in good composition, often miserably

disregarded."

    Here follow several observations referring to slight matters,

and scarcely intelligible apart from the discourse upon which

they are animadversions.

    The Dean proceeds thus: --

    " In all the aforesaid, most sincerely allow, that you have,
                      aI
in general, displayed the man of sense, erudition, and good
                               is is
principle; and also, specifically, that you have managed your
                              II
text as becomes the intelligent scholar and the true friend to
                                                       ?
the British constitution.                                               ?

    "Now with all these things kept in view,                it,            proceed to

inquire whether                                            aImay not infer from the very circumstances

of your discourse being so unexceptionable in its argument,

and so dispassionate in the conduct of some degree of defect

in  y"ouInr  treatment  of your  subject
             one word,  then,    submit
                                          to  you whether  the             important

occasion which has moved you thus to open your mind in the

pulpit, would not have authorized you in using little more

warmth, with view to the rousing and stimulating the sen

sibility of thinking persons

    " To aim at influencing the heart as well as the head, in

cases of this sort,        surely not only innocent but laudable;

and we are not to forget, that plain, cool, good sense, on the

part of the preacher, by no means always sufficient to produce

good practice on the part of the hearers. To set the minds of
CHAP. XXX. AD. 1819. JETAT. 69.      70S

an audience, as it were, on lire, there must be, what Tully calls
' Verba ardentia.'

    " The liberty which you have allowed me to take, in freely
criticising your address to the people, 'On the Extensive

Influence which may be acquired by the exertions of Designing
Men,' induces me, further, to hazard two or three remarks upon
the peculiar duties of clergymen, at such a season.

    " The exquisite morality of the Gospel is open and obvious

to us all: and, moreover, the good sense, wisdom, and com

prehensiveness of its precepts force themselves upon every

enlightened understanding. But in regard to clergymen, who

are called upon to be the dispensers of the oracles of God, to

them there attach peculiar duties, distinct from those which

belong to the generality of believers, as they exist in a Christian
country. * * * *

    " Besides the pure and exquisite morality of the Gospel,

the Christian teacher is possessed of weapons of warfare,

'mighty, through God, to the pulling down of strongholds;'

a very remarkable expression. This observation relates to the

peculiar matter of the Gospel: and here I have not so much

in view the awful subjects of heaven and hell, of death and
judgment -- though what sources of argument can be more
influential than these ?-- as the peculiar doctrines of the New

Testament, or, which is the very same thing, the doctrines of

our Church Establishment.
I"You are instantly aware of my meaning, and trust you
Iwill take it in good part.
                               mean, the great doctrines of the
natural depravity of the human heart -- the true nature of
Christian faith and Christian works --repentance -- newness of
life --justification by faith -- and sanctification by the Holy

Spirit. The substance of these doctrines is in much less room

than is commonly imagined ; and when they lay hold of a truly

serious mind, they are sure to do a deal of execution in the

production of humility and the fear of God. In fact, they are

the true medicine of our fallen nature.

   " Now am I talking at random ? or is it true that ' the fear

of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom,' and that ' to depart

from evil is understanding ?'

                                 2z
706 CIIAP. XXX. A.D. 1819. jETAT. C9.

"Again, am I expatiating in a wide field? or plunging into
Istrange unfathomable depths?
                                 answer, No. The fear of

God here spoken of, is not a slavish fear of bondage, but a true

filial fear, which is productive of every virtue that can enter

into the composition of the choicest morality. It is a fear

which leaves far behind it all that the wisest and most diligent

heathen writers ever attempted to describe, or could hope for,

on their principles.
I" It is high time, however, that
                                   should stop. You ask
Ime two or three plain questions, and see what have written !

Forgive me, my dear friend; and if you perceive but a glimpse

of sense or meaning, take it in good part, and give me credit

for kind and sincere intentions as to the rest.

   " You must have collected, that, while I think your com

position in all respects good, scholar-like, and unexceptionable,

I have insisted on two distinct points. The first is, that your

address to the people, with all its excellencies, might have

admitted a little more warmth and decision.

"The second point is a matter of greater delicacy and
Igreater difficulty.
                      seriously think, that it can be very rarely

wise, in any sermon, to omit Gospel topics entirely; though how

far, and how strongly the peculiar doctrines of Christianity should
be introduced in a single, occasional, and short discourse, it is

not easy to pronounce. Admit not one particle of controversial

a

                      if,

                                 a

                                                 it
                                                                                    is,

                                                                                                           a
divinity; and through God's blessing, the Gospel lay hold

of the hearts of your hearers, will effect all that you can

wish, and that most satisfactorily. The reason there will be

conviction of sinful nature, which will humble                                                                man.

Instead of dreaming of radicalism, he will fall upon his knees

and call for mercy through the Redeemer. If such, by the

blessing of Almighty God, be the effects of your addresses

from the pulpit, let them say you are turned mcthodist; you

will not mind that.   " Believe

" The Rev. R. Goodenough."       m"eA,ffmecytiodneaatr"elfIyrsieanaydco,urMs, ilner.

      Such letter as the foregoing, written under the pressurea
of sickness, and at the age of threescore years and ten, must
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. «TAT. 10.                                                  ?07

surely be felt to afford a very striking practical illustration of

the exhortation,   previously quoted as coming from the same

pen, " Be thou    faithful unto death !" The " crown of life"

was, indeed, somewhat nearer than the writer supposed it to
be ; for in a letter addressed, about this time, to the Bishop

of Carlisle, Dean Milner mentions " a sort of fluctuating hope
of again, after all, venturing to Carlisle." His friends, indeed,

perceived such a hope to be altogether visionary ; but his own

spirits, and with them his hopes of further usefulness, rose with

every transitory amendment of his bodily health.

During the first month of the new year, he not only

examined the candidates for the Smith's Prize, and discharged

the greater part of his customary duties, but even exhibited a

lively interest in the promotion of mathematical science;

advising the Proctor, who was a fellow of his own College, to

appoint as his Moderator the Rev. W. Whewell*, and after

wards entering into a particular conversation with that gentle
man; "the main purpose of this conversation," writes the

Master of Trinity, " was to satisfy himself, that my views

respecting mathematics were such as he could approve."

Dean Mailer's mind, at this period, was as vigorous, his

temperament as vivacious, and his benevolence as active, as

during any former portion of his life. The Right Honourable

T. B. Macaulay, thus writes, "The last time that I visited your

uncle was in January, 1820. He had, as Lucasian Professor,

examined three or four of the most distinguished mathemati

cians among the Bachelors of Arts, for the Smith's Prize.

Their papers were lying on the table. He took them up and

talked, with great force and animation, of the progress which his
favourite sciences had made since his youth. He spoke of his
own examination for his degree, and said, that he had been in a
very desponding mood, and had feared, till the result was known,

that he had completely failed. I was surprised at this : for his

appearance on that occasion was still remembered, at the
distance of nearly half a century. He was not only Senior

Wrangler, but so superior to all his competitors, that the

* The present Mr.ster of Trinity College.

                                                                           2 Z2
708 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. jETAT. 70.

Moderators put the word Incomparabilis after his name. He

told me many interesting anecdotes illustrative of the state of

the University in his younger days. At last he brought out,

with a look of mystery, a portfolio containing a collection of
         kpnaoswqu,"inahdeess, aiwd,rit"tewnh, eIthtehrink,amaboruigthtthien
Iacademical                                                                   year 1780.
" I hardly                                                                    showing a

young fellow in statu pupillari all these squibs on Professors

Iand Heads of Houses. But, believe, you are a good boy, and

that they will do you no harm." Then he read, with peculiar

delight some lively lines upon a dispute between an unpopular

Proctor, and a young fellow-commoner of Trinity, who has since

risen to the highest honours of the State, and whose name will
Ioccupy a distinguished place in English history.
                                                                              then took
I Imy leave, and never saw him afterwards. But have ever

retained a most grateful and respectful recollection of his great

kindness to me."

The above recollections are doubly valuable as bringing

Dr. Milner, such as he was at the very close of his long acade

mical career, vividly before the reader. The promise of the
brilliant morning of his life had been well fulfilled-- the burden
and heat of the day were over -- and never, surely, was there a

calmer evening. On the 2d of February he left Cambridge,
for the residence of Mr. Wilberforce, at Kensington Gore, with

the purpose of availing himself, for a short time, of the advice of
Dr. Baillie ; intending to return to College after the next meet
ing of the Board of Longitude ; nor was it till within a few days
of his death, that he became aware, that his connexion with the

University was finally dissolved.

     During the first part of this visit to Kensington Gore, Dean
Milner was quite able to take part in the society which his friend's

house afforded ; and even to contribute as usual to the enjoy

ment of all who formed a part of that society. A lady, who was

at this time  resident   in Mr. Wilberforce's   family,  thus writes :
              say, that  your excellent uncle  was not   backward in
" I need not

returning affection. He was a most interesting companion,

and brought his fine, powerful, scientific mind to the embellish

Iment of his familiar conversation, and the instruction of young
people.  was staying with him, in Mr. Wilberforce's house,
CnAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.              709

during his last visit, in March, 1820. Before his illness increased,

he was kind and playful; often interesting us young people,

who surrounded him, by anecdotes, and little illustrations in
optics, colours, &c, which his scientific turn made so easy to

him. On these subjects he often shewed us curious experi

ments ; and he was continually throwing out for us new ideas,
Iso that we were delighted to listen to him.
                                              am not sure

whether it were then, or at a previous period, that he invited

Ithe Automaton Chess Player to pay him a visit ; and, believe'
discovered his secret. It was, I think, early in March, that he

gave, vivd voce, to us younger ones, his view of the Confession.

IIt is a short paper which took down from his lips. I here

send it to you."

The following thoughts on the Confession, as written down

by this lady, are, in substance, similar to the exposition of that
admirable part of our Church Sendee, which, as it has been

already intimated, Dean Milner often gave at his private family-

worship. If anything can add to their value, it must be the

reflection, that they were uttered but a few days before his
departure out of this world ; and must, therefore, be regarded

as his dying testimony to "those essential and peculiar Chris

tian doctrines," which he had, for years, maintained ; and which

he was accustomed emphatically to call, " the only medicine for

the fallen nature of man."

   " I have always," said Dean Milner, " considered this short

and admirable form of Confession, as an epitome of the whole

Gospel. Observe the order of the several clauses, and how

much they comprehend.  We begin by confessing to our
Almighty and most Merciful Father, that ' we have erred and
strayed from his ways like lost sheep.' A lost sheep is the
most helpless creature in the world : a dog will find its way -- so

will a horse, or a bird; but if a sheep be lost, it is lost indeed,

and must certainly perish, unless some friendly hand can be
found to seek it out. But, it may be asked, how has it hap

pened that we, the creatures of a good God, should be in this

deplorable condition ! We were created holy and happy beings,
in the image of our Maker. The cause is this. 'We have

offended against' his ' holy laws, and have followed too much the
710 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.

devices and desires of our own hearts.' Here is the origin of

our misery; and, lest we should endeavour to excuse our

conduct, and think there is little harm in            ;                another clause

succeeds We have left undone those things which we ought       it,
         :

          '
                      '

                             ;

                                  O
                                               is
to have done, and have done those things which we ought not

to have done.' Here the guilt charged home, upon ourselves               ;

we acknowledge, that we ourselves have been to blame. As
much as to say, Thou, blessed Lord, wert not the author of

our lost condition the laws which Thou gavest us were holy,

and thy commandments just and good but we have offended

against thy holy laws we have done that which we ought not
                              ;

to have done.' And mark too, what further follows in order to

prevent our fancying, that notwithstanding this evil conduct of

ours, there may still be some good in us, that the disease may
not be total There no health in us.' The whole head
    ;                                                         ;
                         :
                                                                                       is
                    '
                                   is

                                                   ;
sick as the prophet Isaiah said, and the whole heart faint..
We are altogether corrupt unsound at the core and from such

creatures, nothing good can proceed. What, then, can now be

done???  Cut off from every hope in ourselves, whither can we
turn     Is there any one who will seek and save that which
                                                              !

                                                                        '
                                                                               is
                                                                                            is
lost Our appeal, in these desperate circumstances,                       simply,

to the mercy of God. But Thou, O Lord have mercy upon
                              is '
                                       ;
                                               is
us, miserable offenders.' Here our only hope. Spare thou

them,    God which confess their faults.' Not those who
         O

                           !

think they have no faults but those who are sensible of them.

The mercy of God                 exercised in unison with the Divine

holiness.                                   special blessing  is it    that the case of

    " often think what                                            I is,
    I

                              ;

                             is
                                it
                                           a
                                      it
David has been recorded; shows us, that the most wicked man

may be forgiven but also shows what the nature of that

repentance which requisite to forgiveness.                               suppose, there

was never keener anguish of soul, more restless and bitter com

punction of spirit, than David's. His mournings of heart seem

to have been handed down to us, by the good providence of

God, in order to afford to all succeeding generations, an
affecting example of the genuine penitence of grievous sinner,
                                                              a

and to prevent any person who does so repent, from despairing
of mercy. They who mourn like David, shall, like David, be
               CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. jETAT. 70.                                    711

forgiven. Of him, as of St. Paul, it may be said, that for this

cause he obtained mercy, that he might be a pattern to them

who should hereafter believe. Peace, indeed, none can give to

a burdened conscience, except Almighty God; He alone can
communicate a sense of pardon. We may endeavour to encou

rage a repentant sinner, hope that he is forgiven, and assure him,
that he is entitled to comfort -- but all in vain. ' My peace,'
says Jesus, ' I give unto you ;' and in giving
                                                                                   he speaksit,

as never man spake. If, however, any one can truly follow                                 ;

David in his strains of penitence, he shall also, at last, unite                           it
                                                                                                 is
with him in the song which he now singing with all the
               ;

                '
                                                          is
ransomed Thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by

thy blood.'                                                               It proceeds thus:

    "But to return to the Confession.

Restore thou them that are penitent.' Observe, not only
'
pardon, but restore. This a most important word
            :  '                                                                                     as

                     I

                                    is

                                                           ;
much as to say, Bring me back, blessed Lord, to the holy and

happy state in which was created renew thine image in my

soul not only wipe away my heavy debt, but prevent, by the

implantation of a new principle within me, my ever incurring

another. And what my plea for asking this two-fold blessing
               '
of forgiveness and sanctification;' is                                  Not that will amend my
life --though, at the same time, must amend it.--Not for anyis ?I         I

merit, or good work of mine, but, 'according to' God's 'pro                     ?

mises in Christ Jesus only for the sake of what He has done

and suffered for sinners. This all my plea. Observe, lastly,

what to be the result of this manifestation of the mercy and
is
grace of God. Grant, O most merciful Father, for His sake,is

that we may hereafter live godly, righteous, and sober life.'a

It not said, restore us, because we are endeavouring to live                                         a

godly, righteous, and sober life, but, restore us, in order that we

may live such life. Grant, that our lives may testify oura
gratitude; and this, not for our own honour and credit, but 'for

the glory of thy name.' Here we ought to consider what are

the fruits to be produced What                                            holy life Certainly, the
               a
                              a                                         included, whether that of a

                                                            ?

                                                    a
                                                           is is
                                                                       a
fulfilment of every relative duty

parent, child, husband, master, &c. Doubtless, therefore,

the peculiar duties of our different stations must be diligently

performed.
712  CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JET AT. 70.

     " But even the teachers of philosophy among the heathen

demanded this. Christianity requires and produces much

nobler fruit ; fruit of which, indeed, some of the richest clusters

are veiled from human sight, but not unobserved by God.
The tears of repentance, the breathings of devout gratitude and

love to the Saviour, and the inward conflict which is main

tained by every Christian --these are things of which the world

Isees nothing; but they constitute the interior of religion. If
Iwished to ascertain the sincerity of any man's religion, would

ask him, 'Are you conscious of an internal warfare? and do

you find, on daily self-examination, that the new principle is

gaining ground within ? Are you making progress against your

corruptions ? Are your spiritual graces stronger and brighter ?'

For we must never forget, that the only test of our religion
consists in its fruits. ' By their fruits,' says our Saviour, ' ye

shall know them.'
I" This short Confession, then, repeat
                   is                                        to my mind, a
                                                   it,
                                                        is,
summary of religion. It better to leave niceties and abstruse

speculations, and to keep to the simple broad truths and state

men"tsNo. fBS.cripIttumrei.ght be useful for us to look into the depth of

David's sorrow for sin, as expressed in the 6th, 22nd, 30th,

31st, 38th, 39th, 51st, 69th, 77th, 88th, and 102nd Psalms.

These passages, although having prophetic reference to Him
                                 a

whose sorrow was not like any man's sorrow, do yet undoubt

edly express David's own feelings, and were, in the first

instance, applicable to him."

During the first two or three weeks of Dean Milner's visit

to Kensington Gore, his indisposition was not such as to

prevent him from using the moderate exercise to which, for

years, he had been accustomed. At length, however, slight
                                 it
affection of the ancle rendered
                                                                           a
                                    expedient that he should

confine himself to his sofa. Still, nothing like danger was
apprehended either by Dr. Baillie, or by himself. With refer

ence to this circumstance he wrote to the Rev. W. Mandell as

follows

    "The accident to my ancle
     :

          it it

                               a
                                               is

                                                                      ;

                                                             if

                                                    I
                                 doing very well, trust; but,

for its cure, will require time and rest and great care be

not taken, may be long affair."
                CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1C20. jETAT. 70.  713

     Up to and beyond the date of the above extracts, Dean

Milner carried on a cheerful correspondence with the Bishop
of Carlisle, the Rev. Mr. Cunningham of Harrow, and other

friends. It may now, without impropriety, be made known,

that the last named excellent clergyman had, for some time,

entertained a purpose of giving to the public, a " Life of Wil
liam Wilberforce, Esq.3' With a view to the execution of this

purpose, with which Mr. Wilberforce was acquainted, and of

which he approved, Mr. Cunningham was anxious to procure

authentic materials and effective assistance. A long and most

warm-hearted and truly Christian letter on this subject, ad

dressed to Dean Milner, and dated "March 2nd, 1820," has

the following passage ;--" But, dear Sir, if I am to enter upon
this undertaking, I know not where to look for support, advice,

or instruction, except to yourself. The account of his con

version to God, can come only from yourself ; since, as he has

often told me, you were the honoured instrument of it." Mr.

Cunningham proceeds to propose a meeting with the Dean,

emaartlyteron"  the following   Monday, so    that they might discuss the
                quietly before   breakfast."   Alas ! before that Monday

arrived, Dean Milner had been attacked by a difficulty of

breathing, and other alarming symptoms, which, though they
did not lead Dr. Baillie to forebode a speedily fatal issue,

caused him to desire an immediate consultation with some

other physician " of experience and high reputation." Still

the Dean himself entertained no idea of danger, beyond his

general and long-established conviction that the broken state of

his health rendered his continuance in this world uncertain in

the extreme ; and an apparent melioration about the middle

of the month of March, in the more distressing symptoms,
afforded good ground of hope, that the present attack would

not terminate fatally. Dean Milner's mind, at this period, was

occupied, almost exclusively, by religious contemplations ; and

on the essential and distinguishing doctrines of the Gospel, he

spoke to some valued friends, with a force and animation which

left an indelible impression on their minds. In one of his last

conversations with the present Bishop of Calcutta, he expressed,

in the strongest terms, his conviction of the importance of what
714 CHAP. XXX, A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.

he usually called, the doctrines of grace ; adding, that all reli

gious reasonings which did not proceed on those doctrines,

were essentially erroneous, and that the common ways of

evading their force got rid of no one real difficulty, but only left

greater   difficulties in some  other step of   the   a"rgsoumlidenpt.ersonHael
likewise   spoke feelingly on   the importance    of

piety," and humble submission to the will of God. Afterwards,

as his end drew very near, he became incapable of continued

conversation; and being now told, that he was in danger, he

grew more composed and calm than he had been before.

During the last week of his life, the Rev. Mr. Spooner saw him

for a few minutes ; at parting from him, the Dean said, in his

own emphatic and "ponderous" manner, "God bless you:
take care where you and I meet again : that is everything."
A day or two later, having occasion to take leave of a friend

who was about to set out on a long voyage, Dean Milner, after

bidding him farewell, in the presence of, and in common with

the rest of the company, called him back, and shook hands

with him a second time, saying, " Farewell ; may God bless

you. My heart will be with you, and, I trust, with all who

love the Lord Jesus in sincerity. Time is short. Let us hope
to meet again on durable ground."

On the day before his death, he made an attempt to engage

in prayer with the servant who attended him ; and subsequently

desired the same servant to read to him the 14th chapter of St.

John's Gospel, a chapter upon which he had, for years, loved

to meditate. When the reading was over, he put his hand to

his forehead and said, " I cannot tell what is the matter with
me, but I cannot think ; my mind is gone." Of bodily pain,

this excellent man suffered, during the closing scene of his life,

very little ; and it is most satisfactory to find him thus, in the

extremity of weakness, and on the very threshold of eternity,

reposing his trust on those same promises of his Saviour, upon

which he had so often meditated in faith, while possessed of the

full powers of his colossal intellect.

     The night before his death, speaking with much weakness

and difficulty, he uttered a few words, conveying to Mr. Wil-

bcrforce, who was by the side of his bed, the idea, that he was
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.                                715

looking to a better world. On Saturday morning, April 1st,

worse; and                       Mr.   W.
 dear friend,
Ihe became decidedly                  am
Iroom, he said, " My
                                            being   called  to  his
                                           leaving   you ;      am

dying." On the same day, about 11 o'clock, he suddenly
extended his limbs, uttered three sighs, and ceased to breathe ;
being in the seventy-first year of his age.

    " Never," says his friend, " was there an easier dismission ;

which is the more observable, because he had had fears of the

pain of dying*." The circumstances of a true christian in the

article of death, are however, in truth, comparatively, of slight

importance; since the close of a life of Christian faith and

holiness, let that life terminate as it may, in respect of outward

circumstances, must be blessed.

Very great and general was the regret occasioned by the

from this world of the eminent        subject of    this Memoir.
those friends who knew him            best thus
                                                     wrote ;-- "
removal

IOne of

know not how to condole with you on the loss of that most

valuable friend, whose spirit is now numbered with those of

just men made perfect. You know well enough what a high
place he held in my esteem and affections. * * * The

supporters of Missions have lost in him a true friend and

benefactor.

    " He knew in whom he had believed, and is now in posses

sion of the very fulness of joy, in the presence of that God and
Saviour whom he loved and served on earth. So long as ' the

memory of the just is blessed,' we shall never forget him."

    A large concourse of friends followed the remains of Dean

Milner to their resting-place in the chapel of Queen's College,

Cambridge, and afterwards listened to a funeral sermon preached

by the Rev. Daniel Wilson, who, with discriminating observa
tion, pointed out "his ponderous sense, his tenderness and

kindness, his solid and experimental pietyt," as the main con

stituents of his character.

     Dean Milner's personal appearance was exceedingly distin
guished. He was above the usual height, admirably propor
tioned, and of a commanding presence. His features were

* Vide Life of Wilberforce.                t Ibid.
716 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. jETAT. 70.

regular and handsome, and his fine countenance was as remark

able for the benevolence, as for the high talent which it ex

pressed. Of animal spirits he possessed, throughout his life,

an abundant flow; and his constitution was doubtless, originally,

unusually robust. In short, no man was ever more profusely

gifted with the best and most valuable of natural endowments

By his friends he was regarded with a degree of admiration and

reverent affection which falls to the lot of few. One who knew

him well, and than whom few persons are better qualified to

form a correct estimate of the powers of a truly great mind,

thus writes: " Your uncle was, beyond compare, the greatest and

ablest man with whom, in the course of a somewhat checquered

life, it has been my fortune to hold personal converse; and I

never think of him without an accompanying feeling, that for
Ianything which may possess in the way of mental plenishing,
I Iam indebted to him.
                        have often been struck with the

resemblance between his conversations and those reported of
Napoleon, whom all men must admit to have been an extraor

dinary specimen of mental power. There was the same free

dom, the same neglect of conventional forms, and the same

rapid transition from one subject to another; sometimes leaving

behind all guesses as to the nature of the connexion. There

was also an utter carelessness about announcing facts which

might seem to bear hard upon himself, and which a man of less

consciousness of mental superiority would have withheld." The

fulness and variety of Dean Milner's conversational powers

were felt by all who had the privilege of holding intercourse

with him. When engaged in the discussion of any interesting

topic, as a point of natural philosophy, metaphysics, history, or

theology, the abundance of the knowledge which he poured

forth, was only equalled by the force and originality of his

expression. His complete acquaintance with his subject, his

ample stores of illustration, and his conclusive reasoning, ren

dered his conversation, on such occasions, an intellectual feast.

At the same time, he was completely free from a fault often

observable in persons remarkable for their conversational

talents : there was in him no assumption of superiority; he did

not make those who less understood the subject feel their infe
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 182D. JETAT. 70.  717

riority; he rather spoke as if he and the friends around him
were mutually and on equal terms, discussing the point in hand.
There was a dignified simplicity about him, which, without
abating the respect, won the affections of those who were in his
company. In conjunction, however, with an unaffected frank
ness of manner, there was, in all his statements, a force and
decision which announced a clearness of conception and an
authority of intellect rarely equalled. He possessed a mind

sufficiently comprehensive and vigorous to embrace the widest
range of inquiry ; and his industry and perseverance being equal
to his ability, his acquirements were not confined within the
limits of a few branches of science, but extended over almost

the whole field of knowledge. His memory, although he him
self considered it inferior to that with which his brother Joseph

 had been gifted, was such as to enable him effectually to retain
 the stores of learning which he had amassed; and he possessed,
 in an extraordinary degree, the useful faculty not always attend
 ant even upon the most powerful memory, of being able, at any
 moment, to call all his powers into full action. Whatever sub

 ject might be proposed, he was always able to seize at once upon
 its main points, and to bring his varied resources immediately
 to bear upon it.

      There have been persons who have thought that the devoted
 study of the severer sciences, which is requisite to form an
 accomplished mathematician, has a tendency to incapacitate the
 mind for judging correctly in cases where certainty cannot be
 obtained. No such counterbalancing disadvantage appeared to
 attend Dean Milner's mathematical eminence. On the con
 trary, he exhibited an insight into human nature, a facility of
 judging of the motives and probable conduct of others, and a
 general power of developing the causes and consequences of
  events and circumstances, approaching, in appearance, to intui
 tion. With regard to his proficiency in chymistry and experi
  mental philosophy, it has been remarked of him, that although
  his attainments in these sciences were such as would of them

  selves have raised inferior men to distinction, they were, in his
  case, but the accompaniments and attendants of still higher

  accomplishments.
  718 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.

       Dean Milner's political opinions have been indicated with
 sufficient clearness in-the course of the foregoing pages. Tho
 roughly versed in the history of the gradual establishment of
 our free institutions in church and state, and detesting every
 species of tyranny or oppression, he was, nevertheless, a firm
 and consistent supporter of those loyal and constitutional
 principles which he believed to afford the best security for the
 continuance of national and individual liberty.

      As an author, Dr. Milner is known to the public by his

 papers communicated, between the years 1777 and 1800, to the
 Royal Society, and published in the Transactions of that learned

 body --by his Life of [his brother] the Rev. Joseph Milner,
 published in the year 1800; an exquisitely beautiful and
 touching piece of biography, and a permanent memorial of an
 instance of pure and fervent fraternal affection --by his Animad
 versions on the Ecclesiastical History of Dr. Haweis--by his
 powerful work in defence of the Bible Society, published in the
year 1813 --and by his able and elaborate continuation of The
 History of the Church of Christ, an undertaking designed and
 begun by his brother, and one that will assuredly perpetuate the

 name of Milnek.

      The above-mentioned works, with some other less im

 portant performances, were published by the Dean himself.
Since his death, two volumes of his Sermons have been given
to the public, and also an Essay on the subject of Human
Liberty. Of the Sermons it has been justly observed, that an
extraordinary "vigour of conception, a striking exhibition of
 the essential truths of Christianity, and a. constant and most
forcible appeal to the heart and conscience, characterize them
throughout." Of the Essay on Human Liberty, an original
thinker and an accomplished judge of composition* thus writes:

" The great abilities of the writer are visible in every page ; and

from the perusal of such a production, people may learn how
to think on the difficult subject of which it treats."

     With respect to ornamental literature, Dean Milner's taste

    * The Very Rev. the Dean of Peterborough, Regius Proft ssor of Divinity
in the University of Cambridge.
CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.                   719

was such as might be expected in one who had been conversant

only with the very highest models in each department. A

superficial observer might, perhaps, have imagined him indif

ferent to poetry : the truth was, he was indifferent to all except

that which was transcendent in its kind. With the finest

passages of Shakspeare and Milton he was familiar, and would

often read or recite them with a spirit and enthusiasm which

showed how intimately he felt their beauties. As to the
fashionable poets of his own day, in common with Lord Byron,

he preferred Pope to any of them. Cowper, indeed, ought to
be mentioned as an exception. He was well acquainted with

his Task and other writings, and took great delight in them.

He also particularly enjoyed several of his hymns; those

beginning, " O, for a closer walk with God," and, " God moves

in a mysterious way," were among his favourites. He often

looked into Dryden; and, having an exquisite perception of

drollery, enjoyed the wit and humour of Swift and the keener

sarcasm of Butler. Among works of imagination, those of

Cervantes and Le Sage were, perhaps, his favourites; and he

entered with full enjoyment into the refined pleasantry of

Moliere. Of modern fictitious narratives he was acquainted

with few of later date than those of Fielding and Richardson.

One work of imagination, indeed, there was, of a character

very different from that of any above-mentioned, which, to the

end of his life, he read with increasing pleasure ; that work was
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Pi'ogress. The edition which he possessed
was a very old one, and had numerous plates -- sadly deficient,

indeed, in perspective, but much more expressive than many of

the later and more artist-like illustrations of that invaluable

work. Of those plates, that representing the passage of Chris

tian and Hopeful though the river of death, interested him par

ticularly, and he often pointed it out to others, as admirably

illustrative of the author's meaning in that striking portion of

his allegory.

    In the article of natural temper Dr. Milner was, upon the

whole, peculiarly favoured ; and, assuredly, a more benevolent
Ifand feeling heart never beat in a human breast.
                                                   a close

observer could have detected any defect in his constitutional
720 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. JETAT. 70.

temperament, it would have been an occasional irritability,

which would sometimes induce him to utter a hasty expression

which his own affectionate heart quickly led him to condemn,

and for which he never failed to make ample amends by subse

quent considerate kindness.

   It has been already intimated in the course of this work, that

his habitual cheerfulness  and  vivacity   were,  "bnyatsuormale   persons,
thought to be excessive ;  and  certainly    the                  tendency

to mirth" which could so frequently overcome the opposing

influence of almost incessant ill-health, must have been unusu

ally strong. If, however, it be considered, that even in seasons

of the most complete abandonment to his native hilarity, that

hilarity was instantly sobered whenever any serious topic became

the subject of discussion, it may, perhaps, be thought, that a

gaiety of heart so entirely under the control of reason and

religion, ought rather, especially in the case of a person afflicted

beyond the common lot of humanity with physical suffering, to
be regarded as a counterbalancing and compensating gift of

Providence, than as a failing, demanding animadversion.

    It may, perhaps, be thought remarkable, that a man of Dr.

Milner's affectionate and social temperament, should have

remained throughout life, unmarried. Many circumstances,

which it is needless to particularize, contributed to produce

this result ; but the chief cause which led to it was, doubtless,

an early disappointment, which rendered him, thenceforward,

permanently averse from entertaining the idea of any matrimo

nial connexion.

    A genuine and unaffected humility was a striking feature in

his character. To say, that he was never backward to allude to
his original obscurity, or to acknowledge the acquaintance of

those who had known him in his youthful station, would be to

say little in proof of this assertion. A better evidence of his

humility was afforded by his readiness to learn from any one

who was able to afford him instruction ; and above all, by the

unfeigned respect with which he invariably treated the mo.t
illiterate person, if such person appeared to him to be truly, in

spiritual knowledge, " taught of God." To represent Dean

Milne r as having been unconscious either of his own mental
      CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. /ETAT. 70.                             721

superiority, or of the value of the acquirements which distin
guished him, would be exceedingly disingenuous ; but it is

undoubtedly true, that, so far from setting an undue value upon
these splendid advantages, he considered them but as dust in

balance, when weighed against those religious attainments which
are the fruits and evidences of a living Christian faith.

The munificent liberality which he constantly exercised from

the time that his advancement in life placed at his disposal any
superfluity of wealth, was, in him, scarcely to be reckoned a

virtue. He was constitutionally bountiful and generous; and
notwithstanding the necessary habits of severe economy to
which he had in youth been accustomed, -- habits which, in the

case of some truly excellent persons, have been observed to

communicate an indelible      ptrineg-eemionfenatplyp,are"nta  meanness to the
future character, -- he was,                                   cheerful giver."

The religious sentiments of Dean Milner have, it is hoped,

been  sufficiently developed  in the   course of this Memoir. To
what  he was in the habit of  calling  " the distinguishing doctrines

of the Gospel," he constantly bore a uniform testimony. The

fall and utter corruption of man --salvation altogether by grace
-- the necessity of repentance towards God, and faith towards
our Lord Jesus Christ --justification by faith only--the regene
rating and sanctifying influences of the Holy Ghost--and the

indispensable obligation of the believing Christian to lead a

sober, righteous, and godly life, as the fruit and evidence of his
saving faith --these were the truths which he believed to consti

tute the essence of the Gospel, and to lie at the very foundation

of that Reformed Protestant Church, of which he was a faithful

and consistent member. Upon these truths his discourses

from the pulpit were framed; and the force of his reasoning,
his abundance and richness of thought, the seriousness and

dignity of his manner, the perspicuity of his expression, and
the solemnity of his appeals to the consciences of his hearers,
combined to place him in the very first rank of impressive

preachers, and to render his ministerial addresses effectual,
under the blessing of God, to the turning of ' many to right
eousness.' The same momentous truths are laid open and

defended in his theological publications, and were constantly

                                                               3A
722 CHAP. XXX. A.D. 1820. jETAT. 70.

maintained by him both in writing and conversation, when

religion was the subject under consideration. Of the efficacy

of these religious principles upon his own life and character,

this Memoir, imperfect and inadequate as it is, must have

afforded satisfactory evidence. The precise period at which

that efficacy became apparent, may be doubtful ; of its gradual
but constant increase, no doubt can be entertained. His moral

character had indeed, throughout life, been without a stain ;

and his heart, by nature absolutely overflowed with kind affec
tions ; but in humility and resignation to the will of God, in

deadness to the world, and to those worldly objects which,

early in life, had allured him to their pursuit, and in the Chris

tian graces of  faith,   hope, and charity,    there  was   a progressive
improvement.                                          was,  eminently, as
                 In     these things, his "  path "

the "shining light which shineth more and more unto the

perfect day."

Such was the subject of this Memoir ; and, without attempt

ing to throw a veil over failings which he himself acknowledged

and lamented, or to magnify excellencies which all must admit

to have distinguished him, it may be confidently predicted,

that so long as intellectual superiority, various learning, and

moral worth, shall be esteemed among men, the name of Isaac

Milner will be held in enduring honour. " The fashion of this

world," however, " passeth" rapidly " away." Its applause
and its censure are, comparatively, of little importance. If, by

the blessing of Almighty God, this feeble attempt to portray

the character of Dean Milner should excite in the breast of

any reader a desire to become a partaker of his Christian faith

and hope --graces which are now, doubtless, in his case, eter
nally exchanged for sight and fruition -- the foregoing pages will

not have been written in vain.
          Lately Published, by T. Cadell, Strand.

SERMONS BY DEAN MILNE R,

                         2 vols., 8vo. Price 11. Is.

                         Also, by the same Author,

AN ESSAY ON HUMAN LIBERTY.

                                       Price 4s.

THE             Lately Published,

     CHRISTIAN MOTHER.

           Br MARY MILNER.

Sold by Simpkin and Marshall, Stationere'-Hall Court.
                  LONDON:

HARRISON AND CO., PR1NTKRS
       ST. MARTIN 1i LANK.
                   PARKER'S LIST

NEW WORKS                           OF

                         AND NEW EDITIONS.

                         No. II.

                         September, 1842.

A TRANSLATION OF THE BOOK OF PSALMS, by
WILLIAM FRENCH,          DG.EDO.,RMGaEsteSr KoIfNJNesEnRs,CoMlle.gAe.,,
Canon of Ely; and Rev.                                                   Cambridge, and
                                                                         late Fellow and
Tutor of Jesus College. A New Edition, Revised, with Critical and
       Philological Notes. Octavo, 12*.

PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY, Exemplified and Illustrated
by the ACTS of PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANS. By Rt. Rev. RICHARD
MANT, D.D., Lord Bishop of Down and Connor.
                                                                         Octavo, 12s.
A MANUAL OF CHRISTIAN ANTIQUITIES; or. an

J.Account of the Constitution, Ministers,  Worship, Discipline,          and              Customs
                                                                                          18*.
of the Early Church. By the Rev.           E. RIDDLE, M.A.

THE BIBLE CYCLOPAEDIA; a Comprehensive Digest of the

      Civil and Natural History, Geography, Statistics, and General Literary
       Information connected with the Sacred Writings.

Printed in small Folio, with several Hundred Illustrations. Volume I. 25s., bound in cloth.
        To be completed in Two Volumes, or in Thirty Monthly Numbers at la. 6d. each.

BIBLE MAPS. A series of new and Accurate Map?, with
Explanatory Memoirs, and a copious Index of Scriptural and Modem
Names, and forming a complete Historical and Descriptive Atlas of Scrip
                         AnBcyienWt AILuLthIoArMitiesHbUeiGngHvEeSri,fiedF.Ra.nGd.Sc.orreUctneidforump
ture Geography;     the
to the present   time.
with the Bible Cyclopaedia.
                                                                                          7*. 6rf-
LECTURES IN DIVINITY, delivered in the University of
            AbNyewJOEHdNitionH.EYRe,visDe.dD, .,inasTwNoorrliasrsgiaenVolPurmofeess.sor,
Cambridge,                                                                                from 1780
to 1795.                                                                                    30*.

GEMS of SACRED POETRY; A Collection of Beautiful
Poems from the Works of British Writers, between 1540 and 1840. Two
handsome Pocket Volumes, bound and gilt.
                                                                                          8*.
GEMS of SACRED LITERATURE; or, Choice Pieces from
the Works of celebrated Writers, from 1600 to 1840 ; with Select Passages
from the Early Fathers, and an Introductory Essay on Sacred Literature.
Uniformly with the above, Two Volumes.
                                                                                          8*.

THE CHURCHMAN'S GUIDE ; a Copious Index of Sermons
and other Works, by eminent Church of England Divines. Digested and

     J.arranged according to their subjects, and brought down to the present day.

      By the Rev. FORSTER, M. A., Incumbent of the Savoy Chapel. 7*.

HISTORY of the CHURCH OF IRELAND; by RICHARD

      MANT, D.D., Lord Bishop of Down and Connor. Two large Vo

lumes, 17*. each.
-2 A SELECTED LIST OF BOOKS,

THE CIVIL HISTORY of the JEWS, from Joshua to
       Adrian ; with Notices of Manners and Customs, Geography and Antiqui
      ties. By the Rev. O. COCKAYNE, M.A., King's College, London. 4s.&d.

THE EARLY CHRISTIANS; their Manners, Customs, Trials,

      and Sufferings. By the Rev. W. PRIDUEN, M.A. Third Edition. 4s.

HISTORY OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH,                                                           from the
                                                                                           By the late
       Ascension of Jesus Christ to the Conversion of Constantine.
                                                                                            6*. 6d.
      EDWARD BURTON, D.D. Fourth Edition.

THE BOOK OF THE FATHERS of the Christian Church,
and the Spirit of their Writings.
                                                                                           9*. 6d.

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND, to the Revo

     lution, in 1688 ; By THOMAS VOWLER SHORT, D.D., Lord Bishop

       Sodor and Man. Third Edition. 16*.

ELIZABETHAN         RELIGIOUS             HISTORY.                               By* HENRY

      SOAMES, M.A.                                                                             16*.

MEMOIRS of BISHOP BUTLER. By T. BARTLETT, M.A.,
one of the Preachers of Canterbury Cathedral, and Rector of Kingstone. 12*.

LIFE of ARCHBISHOP SANCROFT. By Dr. D'OYLY,
F.R.S., Rector of Lambeth. New Edition, Revised.
                                                                                           9*.

LIVES OF EMINENT CHRISTIANS. By R. B. HONE,
M.A., Vicar of Hales Owen. New Edition. Three Volumes, 4*. 6d. each.

*LIVES of BRITISH SACRED POETS. By R. A. WILL-
MOTT, B.A., Trin. Coll. Cam. Two Volumes, 4s. Gd. each.

The First Series contains an Historical Sketch of Sacred Poetry, and the Lives of the
      English Sacred Poets preceding Milton.

The Second Series commences with Milton, and brings down the Lives to that of BisHor
       Heber inclusive.

THE EVIDENCE of PROFANE HISTORY to the TRUTH
of REVELATION. With numerous Graphic Illustrations. Dedicated,

by permission, to her Majesty the Queen.                                                   10*. Gd

OARNIGDINFAILFTYFACMONILTYEMPSOERRAMROY NSDIV; INbyESONOEF                       HUNDRED
BLISHED CHURCH. Five Volumes, at 6*. 6d. each.
                                                                                  THE ESTA

THE DISTRICT VISITOR'S MANUAL; a Compendium
of Practical Information for the Guidance of District Visitors, and a
Library of interesting matter for the objects of their care. With a Preface,
by Rev. T. DALE, and a Sermon, by Rev. C. BENSON.
                                                                                           4*. 6d.

THE SCRIPTURAL CHARACTER of the ENGLISH
CHURCH. By DERWENT COLERIDGE, M.A.
                                                                                           12*. 6d.

ECCLESLE ANGLICANS VINDEX CATHOLICUS sive
III.cAurrtaicuGloUruLmIEELcMcleIsiaWe AIGngAliNcanaHe AcRumVESYc,ripAti.sM.S,S.    Patrum
Tom. I. In Tomis                                                                 Collegii   nova collatio
                                                                                           Regalia Socii.
                    absolvetur opus.
                                                                                                     18*.
                      PUBLISHED BY JOHN W. PARKER.                                        3

LECTURES on the LITURGY, addressed to his Pupils. By

     the Rev. JOHN BENTALL, M.A., one of the Ushers of Westminster

School.                                                                          5s. 6d.

THE RITUAL of the CHURCH ILLUSTRATED; with

occasional       Reference to  tTheYRORbjEecLtLio,ns      of  Dissenters.   By    the Rev.
                                                      A.M.,   Secretary of       Down and
GERALD            WENSLEY                                                   the

Connor Church Education Society. Demy 12mo.                                      6s.

LUTHER and            HIS TIMES; a        thHeisRteovr.yJ.oEf .thReIDRDisLeE,anMd.AP.rogr5e*.ss

       of the German   Reformation. By

A HISTORY OF POPERY : Origin, Growth, and Progress of
the Papal Power ; its Political Influence, and its Effects on the Progress of
Civilization; Present State of the Romish Church in Ireland; History of

the Inquisition; Monkish Legends.                                                9*. 6d.

SCRIPTURAL GROUNDS OF UNION; Five Sermons
preached before the University of Cambridge. By the Rev. JAMES
SCHOLEFIELD, M.A., Regius Professor of Greek.
                                                                                 3». 6d.

THE BETTER PROSPECTS of the CHURCH; a Charge to
tHheARCEle,rgMy.Ao.f                                          By JULIUS CHARLES
                      the Archdeaconry    of  Lewes.
                         Second Edition.                                         Octavo, 3s.

ON THE           EARLY FATHERS:               an Introductory               Lecture, by

       the Rev.  J. J. BLUNT, B.D., Lady      Margaret's Professor          of Divinity in

the University of Cambridge.                                                Octavo, 2s.

DISCOURSES UPON THE POWERS OF THE CLERGY,

     PRAYERS for the DEAD, and the LORD'S SUPPER, preached at

      the Temple Church ; By C. BENSON, A.M., Master of the Temple. 6*.

DISCOURSES ON TRADITION AND EPISCOPACY;
      By the Same. Third Edition. 4s.

TRADITION UNVEILED; a candid Inquiry into the Ten

      dency of the Doctrines advocated in the Oxford Tracts. By the Rev.
      BADEN POWELL, M.A., Savilian Professor of Geometry in the Uni
       versity of Oxford. 3*. ; and

A SUPPLEMENT to Tradition Unveiled.                                              2s.

THE CONNEXION of NATURAL and DIVINE TRUTH;
or, the Principles of the Inductive Philosophy, and the Study of Secondary
Causes, considered as subservient to the Proof of a First Cause and the

Evidences of Religion. By the Author of the above.                          Octavo, 9s.

STATE EDUCATION, considered with special Reference to
some Prevalent Misconceptions. By the Same Author.
                                                                                 3s.

THE HANDMAID, or the Pursuits of Literature and Philo
       sophy, considered as subservient to the Interests of Morality and Religion.
     By the Rev. JOHN DAVIES. B. D., Author of an "Estimate of the
       Human Mind." is.
4 A SELECTED LIST OF BOOKS,

PASTORAL ADDRESSES, by WILLIAM OTTER, D.D.,
late Lord Bishop of Chichester. Octavo.                                          6s. 6rf.

PARISH SERMONS. By JULIUS CHARLES HARE,
M.A., Archdeacon of Lewes.
                                                                             Octavo, 12*.

THE VICTORY of FAITH. By the Same. Octavo, 10*. 6rf.

NOTES on the PARABLES of Our LORD. By RICHARD

     CHENEVIX TRENCH, M.A., Perpetual Curate of Curdridge. 12*.

THE WORKS OF DOCTOR DONNE ; with a Memoir of
            By HENRY       ALFORD, M.A.,
his Life.                                         Vicar of                   Wymeswold.            Six
Volumes    Octavo, with a  fine Portrait, after  Vandyke.                                31. 12*.

CUD WORTH ON FREEWILL; now first Edited from the

     Original MS., and with Notes, by JOHN ALLEN, M.A., Chaplain of

       King's College, London; Inspector of Schools aided by Public Grants. 3*.

AN ILLUSTRATION of the METHOD of EXPLAINING
the NEW     CThErSisTt.AMBEyNWT ILbLyItAheMEaWrlyILOSpOinNio,nsB.oDf .,Jewlatse
                                                                                 and Christians
concerning                                                                        Fellow of St.
John's College, Cambridge. A New Edition, carefully revised. 8*.

ARCHBISHOP USHER'S ANSWER TO A JESUIT,
with other Tracts on Popery.
                                                                                 13*. 6d.

EIGHT SERMONS on the ELEVENTH CHAPTER of ST.

      MATTHEW'S GOSPEL. By the late E. T. VAUGHAN, M.A.,

       Vicar of St. Martin's, Leicester. Preached in 1828 and 1829. 7*. 6d.

DISCOURSES ON REPENTANCE.                        By T. AINGER,

      M.A., Perpetual Curate of Hampstead.                          2s. 6d.

THE CONSTITUTION of the VISIBLE CHURCH of
CHRIST, considered in Eight Discourses, preached before the University
of Cambridge. By the Rev. RICHARD PARKINSON, B.D., Fellow
of Christ's College, in Manchester.
                                                                             Octavo, 9*. 6d.

GARRICK'S INSTRUCTIONS for READING the LI
TURGY. With Notes, and a Discourse   on Public   Reading, by RICH ARD
CULL, Tutor in Elocution.
                                                         Octavo, 5*. 6d.

THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYER ILLUSTRATED,

so as to show its various Modifications, the Date of its several Parts, and
mtheentAsu. thBoryityWonILwLhIAichMtheKyErAesTt.INWGithCaLnAAYp,peBn.dDix.,
                                                                             of  important Docu
                                                                                 Minor Canon of
Ely.
                                                                                 7*. 6d.

NOTES on the PRAYER-BOOK VERSION of the PSALMS,
with copious Marginal References. By the Same.
                                                                                 7*. 6d.
               PUBLISHED BY JOHN W. PARKER.                                                     5

THE HYMNS of the CHURCH, Mostly Primitive, Collected,
Translated, and arranged for Public Use. By the Rev. J. CHANDLER,
M A., Vicar of Witley.
                                                                           ]*. 6d.

PORTIONS of the PSALMS, in English Verse, selected for
Public Worship. By JULIUS CHARLES HARE, M.A., Archdeacon
of Lewes.
                                                                           2s. 6d.

PSALMS and HYMNS for PUBLIC WORSHIP;                                       Selected
     and Revised by the Rev. J. E. RIDDLE, M.A.                                Is.

THE MINISTRATION of PUBLIC BAPTISM of IN-
FANTS, and the form of receiving Children who have been privately
baptized into Christ's flock, arranged as one service.                     1*. 6d.

OFFICE FOR THE VISITATION OF THE SICK; with

      Notes and Explanations, by the late Archdeacon COXE. Is. 6d.

SCRIPTURAL BREVIATES; or, Short Compendiums of Faith
       and Practice, for the use of the Sick; Nos. 1 to 50; Price 1». per Set, or
       2s. per 100 copies of any selected number ; or, a set, bound in a Volume, 2s.

FULLER'S HISTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAM
BRIDGE. Edited, with Notes, by the late Rev. M. PRICKETT, M. A.,
and T. "WRIGHT, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                                                           12s.

LETTERS, STATUTES, and other DOCUMENTS, illustrative
                  of the University of Cambridge,
of the History                                                               during the time of
the Reformation.    By JOHN LAMB, D.D., Dean                               of Bristol. 10*. 6d.

ON THE STATUTES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAM
BRIDGE. By GEORGE PEACOCK, D.D., V.P.R.S., Dean of Ely,
and Lowndes's Professor of Astronomy in the University.
                                                                           9*. 6d.

A DISCOURSE on the STUDIES of the UNIVERSITY of

      CAMBRIDGE. By PROFESSOR SEDGWICK. Fourth Edit. 4s.

PRINCIPLES of ENGLISH UNIVERSITY EDUCATION.

      By the Rev. PROFESSOR WHEWELL, F.R.S. Second Edition, 5*.

THE CAMBRIDGE PORTFOLIO; Papers illustrative of the

Scholastic and Social State, the History, Antiquities and Literature of

J. J.the University. Contributed by Members. Edited by the Rev.

SMITH, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Cains College. Two handsome Vo

lumes, Royal Quarto, with numerous Illustrations. 41. 4s.

BISHOP^         HALLIFAX ON THE              CIVIL       LAW ; with Ad

     ditions,  by Dr. GELDART, Professor of  the Civil  Law, Cambridge. 8s. 6d.

UNIVERSAL MYTHOLOGY ; an Account of the most im
                        HSy.sCteHmRs,ISTwMithASCo, nFsi.dSe.rAat.i,oSnts.  on the Koran and
portant Mythological                                                       John's Coll., Camb.  the
Talmud. By the Rev.                                                                              7s.

ARUNDINES CAMI, Sive Musarum Cantabrigiensium Lusus

     Canori, collegit atque edidit HENRICUS DRURY, M. A. Ornament

ally printed, 12*.
6 A SELECTED LIST OF BOOKS,

THE PUBLIC ECONOMY OF ATHENS, by Professor

      BGECKH. Translated from the German by G. CORNEWALL LEWIS,
      Esq., A.M., late Student of Christ Church ; one of the Translators of
      Muller's Dorian*. New Edition, Revised. Octavo, 18*.

PINDAR'S EPINICIAN ODES AND THE FRAGMENTS
OF HIS LOST COMPOSITIONS.                     Revised and explained by the Rev.
JOHN WILLIAM DONALDSON,                       M.A., Head Master of the Bury

School.                                              Octavo, 16*.

A LIFE OF ARISTOTLE, including a Critical Discussion of
                                              History connected with his Works. By
sJ.omWe. QBuLesAtiKonEsSLoEf YL,iteMra.Ary.,  Fellow of Trin. Coll., Cambridge. 8*. (id.

THE CAMBRIDGE GREEK AND ENGLISH TESTA-
MENT ; Stephens' Greek and the Authorized English Version, in Parallel
Columns on the same Page.
                                                        8*. fid.

THE GREEK TEXT of the ACTS OF THE APOSTLES ;

      with Notes, Original and Selected. By H. ROBINSON, D.D. 8*.

A SELECTION from the GREEK VERSES of SHREWS

     BURY SCHOOL; with a Short Account of the Iambic Metre and Style

       of Greek Tragedy, and Progressive Exercises in Greek Tragic Senarii. 8*.

EXAMINATION PAPERS of SHREWSBURY SCHOOL:

     with a Preface on Classical Examinations. By B. H. KENNEDY,

      D.D., Head Master of Shrewsbury School.

THE SPEECHES OF DEMOSTHENES, against Aphobus
and Oaetor ; translated, with Notes explanatory of the Athenian Laws and

Institutions. By CHARLES RANN KENNEDY, M.A., Fellow of
Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                                     Octavo, 9*.

THE IPHIGENIA IN AULIS of EURIPIDES, with English
Notes. The Cambridge Edition.
                                                               8*.

STEMMATA ATHENIENSIA; Tables of Biography, Chro-
nology, and History, to facilitate the Study of the Greek Classics. 5*.

DISSERTATIONS on the EUMENIDES of AESCHYLUS,
with the Greek Text, and Critical Remarks.
                                              From the German of
MULLER.                                                           9*. 6d.

THE FROGS of ARISTOPHANES, with                      Eng"lish  Notes

      for Students. By the Rev. H. P. COOKESLEY.               7*.

SCHLEIERMACHER'S INTRODUCTIONS TO THE
DIALOGUES of PLATO ; translated from the German, by WILLIAM
DOBSON, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                                        12*. 6d.

THE AULULARIA of PLAUTUS, with Notes by JAMES
HILDYARD, M.A., Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge.
                                                        7*. 6d.
THE MENCECHMEI of PLAUTUS, with a Glossary and
Notes. By the Editor of the above. A New Edition.
                                                        7*- Gd.
           PUBLISHED BY JOHK W. PARKER.                                                                   7

THE FIGURES of EUCLID;                              with Questions, and a  Praxis                         of
     J.Geometrical Exercises. By Rev.               EDWARDS, King's Coll.
                                                                           Lond.                          3».
A COMPANION to EUCLID ; being a help to the Under-
standing and Remembering of the First Four Books.
                                                                           4*.

THE MECHANICAL EUCLID. By the Rev. PROFESSOR
WHE WELL, Master of Trinity College, Cambridge.                            5s. 6d.

THE MECHANICS OF ENGINEERING, intended for use

      in Universities and in Colleges of Engineers. By the same. 9*. Also

WHE WELL'S DOCTRINE OF LIMITS, with its Applical
tions ; namely, The First Three Sections of Newton -- Conic Sections-^
The Differential Calculus.
                                                                           9*.

HALL'S ALGEBRA.--The ELEMENTS of ALGEBRA,
cRheievf.lyPRiOntFen. deHdALfoLr ,Sochf oKoinlsg'asndCothlle.,  Junior Classes in Colleges. By the
                                                                London. 6*. 6d.; also, by the Same,

HALL'S DIFFERENTIAL and INTEGRAL CALCULUs!
Third Edition, improved.                                                   12*. 6d.

EXAMPLES of the PROCESSES of the DIFFERENTIAL
and INTEGRAL CALCULUS. Collected by D. F. GREGORY, M.A.,
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                                                Octavo, 18*
LECTURES upon TRIGONOMETRY, and the Application
of Algebra to Geometry. Second Edition, corrected.
                                                                           Is. 6d.
DYNAMICS, or a TREATISE on MOTION. By SAMUEL

     EARNSHAW, M.A., of St. John's College, Cambridge. Octavo, 14*.

THEORY OF HEAT. By the Rev. PROFESSOR KEL-
LAND, M.A., F.R.S., of the University of Edinburgh.
                                                                           9*.

LECTURES on ASTRONOMY, delivered at KINGS COL

     LEGE, London, by PROFESSOR MOSELEY, M.A., F.R.S. With
       numerous Illustrations. 5*. 6d. ; also,

*MOSELEY'S MECHANICS APPLIED TO THE ARTS.
By the Same. New Edition. With numerous Engravings. 6s. 6d.

DANIELL'S CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY: being a prepara-
tory View   of               AwNhIicEhLcLo,ncFu.rRt.oS.t,heofPKriondgu'sctiCoonlleogf eC, hLeomnidcaoln.
nomena.    By    the Forces                                                                               Phe

                PROF. D                                                                                     1 6*.

PRACTICAL GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY; with
                                                    ANALYSIS of MINERALS.                                 By
JInOsStrHucUtiAonsTRfoIrMtMheERQ,uaFli.tGa.tSiv. e
                                                    Two Hundred Wood-Cuts. 12*.
PRINCIPLES OF MECHANISM. By. R. WILLIS, M.A.,
F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge. With

numerous illustrations.                                                    15*.

THE UNDULATORY THEORY, AS APPLIED TO THE
DISPERSION OF LIGHT. By the Rev. Prof. POWELL, M.A., F.R.S., 9*.
8 A SELECTED LIST OF BOOKS.

THREE         LETTERS to the Rev.            oWn .thePANaLmMe E"RP,ROFTeEllSoTwANaTn;"d

       Tutor  of Magdalene College, Oxford,
on the SEEMINGLY AMBIGUOUS CHARACTER of the ENGLISH
CEAsHPqPU.,EReNCntDHitlIeX;d ,an"cdoTnhotneaintiBnhigeshoBspoImrSiceHORoefPmRthaIeCrkKsUonnitaetad  JERUSALEM. With an
                                                                                                    Pamphlet of J. R. Hope,

                                                                                                      Church of England and
Ireland, at Jerusalem, considered in a Letter to a Friend." By the Rev.
F. D. MAURICE, A.M., Chaplain of Guy's Hospital, and Professor of
English Literature at King's College, London. Second Edition, with
Additions. 3*.

EXAMINATION QUESTIONS and ANSWERS, from Mo-
       sheim's Ecclesiastical History, for the Use of Students in Divinity. 4s. 6d.

EXAMINATION QUESTIONS and ANSWERS, from
Burnet on the Thirty-Nine Articles. By the Author of the above. 2s.

EXAMINATION QUESTIONS and ANSWERS on Butler's

     Analogy. By the Rev. Sir G. W. CRAUFURD, Bart., M.A. 2*. 6d.

PALEY'S EVIDENCES EPITOMISED; with a view to
exhibit his Argument in a small compass, without omitting or weakening
any of its component parts.
                                                                                                                                     5s.

ON THE FOUNDATIONS OF MORALS: Four Sermons

     preached before the University of Cambridge. By Professor WHEWELL,

      B.D., Master of Trinity College. New Edition, with a Preface. 3s. 6d.

THE NEW CRATYLUS ; or, CONTRIBUTIONS                                                                towards a

      mDoOreNAALcDcuSraOteN,KnMo.wAl.e, dgHeeadofMtahseteGr roefetkheLaBnugruyagSec.hoolB. y the    Rev. J. W.

                                                                                                         17*.

SYNCHRONOLOGY : a Treatise on the History, Chronology.

      and Mythology of the Ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and Phoenicians, and
      the Harmony between the Chronology of those Nations and that of the

     Holy Scriptures. By the Rev. CHARLES CROSTIIWAITE. 15*.

ibrmn THE GUIDE of the HEBREW STUDENT; con-

taining an Epitome of Sacred History, with Easy Passages in Pure Bib
lical Hebrew, with Keys, and Glossary, adapted for English Learners.
By H. H. BERNARD, Hebrew Teacher in the University of Camb. 10s.6d.

LEO'S HEBREW GRAMMAR for the Use of Schools and

Students in the Universities.                                                                       12*. 6<l.

THE CHALDEE TEXT OF Daniel, V., and the SYRIAC
of St. Matthew, VI. 1 --13,                                                                                                           By the
Rev. T. R. BROWN, M.A.         analy"zed     ;  for  the                                            use of Students.
                                                                                                                                     6d.
                                                                                                                                3*.

ELEMENTS        OF SYRIAC GRAMMAR, by the Rev.                                                                                             G.

     PHILLIPS,  M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Queen's College, Cambridge.                                                                     10*.

A PRACTICAL ARABIC GRAMMAR. By DUNCAN
STEWART.
                                                                                                    Octavo, 16*.

FRAGMENTS OF THE GREEK COMIC WRITERS, with

     Latin and English Notes. By JAMES BAILEY, M.A., Trin. Coll.

Camb. Octavo, 9*. 6d.

London: JOHN W. PARKER, Publisher, West Strand.
1

