A memoir of the life, writings, and mechanical inventions, of Edmund
Cartwright, D.D., F.R.S., inventor of the power loom, etc., etc.

Strickland, Mary (Cartwright)
London, Saunders and Otley, 1843.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015064397048

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
AKTES SCHNT1A VSUTA*
·V.
A15

   V
          MEMOIR

                                                          OF

DR. EDMUND CARTWRIGHT.
         A MEMOIE

                                                             OF

THE LIFE, WRITINGS,

                                                           AND

            JNtafranfcal £nbent(ong,

                                                             OF

EDMUND CARTWRIGHT,

                               D.D. F.R.S.,
             INVENTOR OF THE POWER LOOM,

                                         ETC. ETC.

                           LONDON
SAUNDERS AND OTLEY, CONDUIT STREET.

                                            1843.
 T

40
Transportation
      Library

                              THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

           THE LOED JOHN RUSSELL,

         WHOSE EARLY TALENTS AND ATTAINMENTS HAD ATTRACTED THE
                         SINCERE ESTEEM OF THE VENERABLE SUBJECT
                                            OP THE FOLLOWING MEMOIR,

                         THIS SKETCH OF A LONG LIFE,

                    DEVOTED TO THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE USEFUL ARTS,

                                IS, WITH GREAT RESPECT,
                                                itucriieti,

                            BY HIS LORDSHIP'S MOST OBEDIENT SERVANT,

                                   THE AUTHOE.
                PREFACE.

The following Memoir of the Life of Dr.
Cartwright, being chiefly derived from au
thentic papers in the possession of his family,
and also from the personal recollection of
its few surviving members, will be found to

contain a more connected account than has
hitherto appeared of the various pursuits of

his long and useful life. It might have

been considerably extended by the addition
of interesting letters from various eminent
persons with whom he had correspondence ;
but the Author has preferred making such
 selections only as seem connected with the
Vlll PREFACE.

leading points of Dr. Cartwright's character
and history.

    The mechanical portions of this little
work might also have been made more copi
ous ; but the minuteness of detail necessary
to render such descriptions intelligible would
have but little interest to the general reader.

     therefore, this volume deserve the cen
sure of being meagre as well as short, may
hope at least to escape the heavier reproach
of being tedious and diffuse.

                                                       M.
If,
                                                it

                                                                        S.
              CONTENTS.

              CHAPTER I.

Edmund Cartwright, his birth --Entered at Univer
    sity College --Publishes poems --Marries -- Cures
   . fevers by yeast -- Contributes to the " Monthly
    Review" -- Corresponds with Sir "W. Jones and

Mr. Crabbe                 1--53

              CHAPTER II.

His attention turned to mechanics --Invents the

power-loom--Erects a mill at Doncaster --Letter
from Dr. Thurlow --Publishes a new edition of

his poems -- Meditates improvements in the

steam-engine               54 -- 94

                 CHAPTER III.

His wool-combing machine described-- Agreement
    with Messrs. Grimshaw -- Misfortunes -- Gives
    up his works at Doncaster -- Sonnet . 95 -- 112
X CONTENTS.

                    CHAPTER IV.

Removes to London -- His patent bricks --incom
    bustible material for houses -- Application of
    tread-wheel to cranes --Patent steam-engine --
    Rotatory engine -- Correspondence with Mr. Ful

     ton 113--162

CHAPTER V.

....His address to the Society of Arts --Trials for in
vasion of patent rights -- Obtains an extension
                         163-- 198
of them from Parliament

CHAPTER VI.

....Prize Essay on Agriculture --Removes to Woburn
    -- Correspondence with Sir H. Davy -- Takes
degree of D.D.-- Poems   199--212

CHAPTER VII.

Great increase of power-looms -- Memorial from

Manchester in his favour -- Obtains a grant

from Parliament          213 --240

                CHAPTER VIII.

Retires to Hollanden --Fattens sheep with sugar --

     Correspondence with Dr. Pearson, Mr. Crabbe,
    and Sir Stamford Raffles -- Remedy for mildew
    --Plan for preventing forgery . . 241 -- 272
                    CONTENTS.                  xi

                   CHAPTER IX.

Correspondence with Dr. Bardsley -- Locomotive
    carriage -- Theory of the planetary system --Ex
    plosive engine -- Declining health -- Decease --
     Dr. Bardsley's letter to S. Oldknow, Esq.

                                                                 273--302

APPENDIX.

A. -- Armine and Elvira                        303
                                               328
B. --Letters from Sir W. Jones .     '  .  .   330
                                  ..           333
                                               334
C. --Description of the power -loom of 1790 .  337
                                               363
D. -- Cordelier, or rope-making machine . .    365

E. --Patent Bricks

F. --Prize Essay on Manures

...G-. --Manchester Memorial

H.--List of Mr. Cartwright's Patents
,N
     MEMOIR

                                         ETC.

               CHAPTER I.

In contemplating the wonderful impulse
which the manufactures of Great Britain

have received within the last fifty years,
from an unprecedented application of me
chanical ingenuity, the mind is led not only
to inquire into the causes that have pro
duced such a direction of talent, but natu
rally awakened to an interest in the history
of those enterprising men who, in departing
from immemorial practice, first gave that
impulse, and prepared the way, through dif-

                                            B
 2 MEMOIR OF

Acuities and opposition, for the more pros
perous career of their successors.

    Some of the most original mechanicians
of the eighteenth century were persons born

in very humble stations of life. In poverty

and obscurity, they encountered such impe
diments to their successful progress, as the
force of native talent alone could not over
come ; and their history but too often pre
sents a melancholy picture of the unavailing
struggles of a vigorous mind, subdued at
length by the mortification of seeing others
enriched by inventions which the author of
them possessed not the means to introduce.

    The subject of the following memoir can
not be said to come within the same descrip
tion of unfortunate projectors ; but though
possessed of advantages which supported
him through difiiculties under which an
humbler individual might have sunk, he was
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  3

not the less exposed to the influence of that
spirit of jealousy which has a tendency not
only to oppose every new invention, but to
dispute with the inventor his claim to ori

ginality. It is solely in the hope of doing

full justice to the memory of so ingenious a
man as Dr. Cartwright that these pages are
offered to the public. Several years have

now elapsed since his death, and as the num
ber is daily diminishing of those whose per
sonal recollection can throw any light on
the earlier portion of his mechanical career,

the very few who still survive are anxious

to shew the ground on which he claimed the
merit of being the original inventor of cer
tain combinations in machinery, which,
from their extensive adoption, have had no
small influence on the commercial and ma
nufacturing interests of this country. But,
before any explanation or description be

                                      B2
4 MEMOIR OF

given of inventions that have produced most
important results, or the circumstances re
lated, which called his mechanical genius
into action, a slight sketch of the pursuits
and habits of his earlier life may not be un
interesting, in order to shew that, however
intellectual they might be, they were not
apparently calculated to develop the pecu
liar talent by which his later years were
distinguished.

   It is now precisely a century since the

birth of Edmund Cartwright, on the 24th
April, 1743. He was the fourth son of
William Cartwright, Esq., of Marnham, in
the county of Nottingham, by Anne, daugh
ter of George Cartwright, Esq., of Ossington,
in the same county.* He was educated

   * The family of Cartwright had been long esta
blished in Nottinghamshire. From the three sons

of Hugh Cartwright, in the time of Henry VII., de
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  5

under Dr. Clarke, at the grammar-school at
Wakefield, where he was early distinguished
for proficiency in his studies. Had he been
permitted to follow the bent of his own in
clination in the choice of a profession, he
would have preferred the navy ; but two of
his brothers being already designed for that

service, it was thought advisable that Ed

mund should apply what were justly consi-

scended the families of Cartwright of Marnham, (ori
ginally of Norwell,) of Ay ho, in the county of North
ampton, and of Ossington . Frequent intermarriages
had taken place between the two families of Marnham
and Ossington, both of whom had suffered in their
fortunes by their adherence to the cause of Charles
the First. The Ossington branch became extinct
in the male line in George Cartwright, Esq., who
died in 1762, leaving four daughters (Mary, married
to Sir Charles Buck, Bart. ; Dorothy, to Henry, Lord
Middleton; Jane, to Sir Digby Legardj and Anne,
to Sir John Whiteford, Bart.), by whom the estate
at Ossington was sold to William Dennison, Esq.
6 MEMOIR OF

dered as promising abilities to one of the
learned professions ; and as his family con
nexions might be expected to promote his
advancement in the church, it was decided
by his parents that he should enter into
holy orders. He began his academical
studies at University College, in Oxford,
where he was entered at fourteen years of
age, and during the vacations was placed
under the private tuition of the Kev. Dr.
Langhorne, a name well known in the lite
rary world, as the editor of Plutarch's Lives,
and likewise as the author of some poems,
as well as several pleasing and elegant vo
lumes in prose.

   A friendship, honourable to both, seems

to have arisen between the pupil and his in
structor, to whose classical knowledge and
literary taste Dr. Cartwright might pro
bably be indebted for much of that neat and
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  7

Jinished style of expression which he em
ployed in writing, even on the most trivial
and familiar occasions.

   At that period, the chief object of a

liberal education was to acquire a compe
tent portion of classical learning; and he
who added a taste for poetry and the belles
lettres to his proficiency as a scholar, could
not fail of being distinguished as possess
ing more than an ordinary share of the at
tainments that were then most valued in
polished society. Much of what is consi
dered as general information was not always
to be found even amongst well educated
persons, and scientific studies were compa
ratively but little cultivated. Had those
various sources of information been then
accessible which are now within the reach
of every one who can read, or those popular
associations existed, which, by uniting the
8 MEMOIR OF

results of inquiring minds, serve at once to
concentrate knowledge and diffuse practical

instruction, it is more than probable that

the peculiar bent of Dr. Cartwright s genius
would have sooner shewn itself, and that
he would have aimed rather at reaping the
fruits of science than culling the flowers of

poetry. It seemed, however, to have been

the natural, as it was the not unusual re

source of the young and vigorous mind, to
relieve its aspirations after distinction by an
assiduous cultivation of the muses. Nor
was such a dedication of the youthful
faculties in this instance to be regretted.
The occasional composition of poetry be
came to him, in after life, a frequent solace
under disappointments, and contributed,
with other mental exercises, to promote that
cheerfulness of spirit, for which, even in his
most advanced age, Dr. Cartwright was re-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  9

markable. That he had become a votary
of the muses at the early age of eighteen is

inferred from a letter, dated September 1761,

from an old friend, Dr. Hasledine, rector of
Haceby, in Lincolnshire, in which he says,

I" presume your muse is very busy at this
Itime, and shall be glad to see your name

in the collection of verses now preparing on
the king's* wedding." Whether the youthful
poet adopted his friend's suggestion, in
adding to the numerous loyal effusions which
so propitious an occasion could not fail to
produce, cannot now be ascertained ; but in

the following spring he appears to have
committed some of his compositions to the
press, as well as submitted them to the
criticism of his learned and affectionate
tutor, Dr. Langhorne, who, in a letter,
dated February 1762, thus expresses his

                   * George III.
                          B3
10 MEMOIR OF

opinion of the juvenile performance of his

Ipupil :-- " rejoice to find that, though you

have long neglected your muse, she has not

taken a final leave of you. Many of your

Iverses are pretty; but am less pleased

with the harmony of your little poem than
with that philosophical temper you seem to

have been in when you wrote it--1 Sunt

lachrynwe rerum et mentem mortalia
tangunt. "' His brother John, (afterwards
Major Cartwright,) then a lieutenant on
board H.M.S. " Wasp," in a letter, dated

1763, also alludes to his poetical attempts,

and draws an interesting comparison be

tween his own neglected education and his

brother Edmund's superior advantages in

that respect :--

  I" shall beg you will indulge me with a

sight of some of those little pieces, in the

composition of which you sometimes amuse
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  11

yourself. Give me leave to inform you

Ithat already rank one poet amongst my

intimate correspondents,- (and he* of no
small note either,) so you need not be shy

of not getting into good company. It is my

ambition to converse with the geniuses (if

I may not write genii) of the age, --and
Ilearned men honour exceedingly. Were
I a potentate, they should be respected at

my court before nobles, and it should be

glorious from the lustre of their wisdom.

Though my soil was under the care of

slothful husbandmen, and has been denied

the sunshine of a. college; though it has

also been for several seasons exposed to

ruthless, inclement elements --the most in

veterate enemies to erudition; yet do not

altogether consider the produce of a richer

one, that has had a happier cultivation be-

       * Falconer, author of the " Shipwreck."
12 MEMOIR OF

It

                     it,

                                                            a
stowed upon as pearls cast before swine."

appears from the following letter, that,

although Mr. Cartwright had determined

on publishing some of his poetical effusions,

he had, at the same time,                                      youthful

anxiety not to be known as their author.

                   FROM DR. LANGHORNE.
                                                    "Feb. 1764.

  " My dear Cartwright, --In consequence

of your letter, received this morning,
travelled through terrible shower of rain,
to the printer of the Monthly Keview,' in
         a
              '

                                I

order to scratch out your name and the

name of your college.
         a                            done, sir, and

                      It

                                  is
you are now bare blank, or what, perhaps,

you may like better, four stars. Magdalen*

College  indeed mentioned in the latter
       ;

          is
                          is

                                                              a

                                             it
sonnet but that nothing to you, being

   * Mr. Cartwright had been elected                           Fellow of
Magdalen College, Oxford.
                                             DR. CAETWRIGHT.  13

only introduced as the nurse of Addison      I
and Collins. * * * But what ! are
                                                                   aa
you going to turn Dutch commentator, and                                            a
give us a new edition of old Politian's old
letters? Keally, my friend, for your green                                                          ;
time of life, this appears to me mal-apropos,
however wise or however learned your sage                                                         it,
adviser may be. Had you proposed to give
a translation of Politian, with notes, the
public might have been the better for
and you, too, possibly, might have had
some reward for your labours but to dig
in the Bentleyan mine with your young
muscles, own, appears absurd to me, and
will surely gain you no other character in
your university than that of prig."

   In 1770, Mr. Cartwright published " Ar-
mine and Elvira," legendary tale. This

poem, which passed through several editions
in little more than year, was greatly ad
14 MEMOIR OF

mired for the harmony of its numbers and
the purity of its moral sentiment, and the
author received compliments from various
quarters sufficient to have satisfied the

vanity of a much vainer man ; but " The

Prince of Peace," an ode, published in the
year 1779, must unquestionably be con
sidered as the best of his earlier poetical
productions, probably for this reason, that

he felt his subject. The deep regret with

which, in common with many others of the
wise and good, he viewed the contest at
that time subsisting between Great Britain
and her American colonies, seems to have
inspired his pen, and deprecating the mode
in which the warfare was carried on, he de
scribes its horrors in some very noble lines.
The concluding stanzas of a poem out of
print, and now but little known, may not

be unacceptable to the reader :--
DK. CARTWRIGHT.  15

" All! surely dead to human woe
      Their iron hearts, that deeds like these approve!

  All future hope they surely must forego,

      Nor fear a vindicating Power above :
  And yet -- to Heaven they bow the suppliant

                knee,

      And breathe the formal prayer with lips defiled ;
  And yet --they lift their blood-stain'd hands to

               Thee,

      To Thee, meek Saviour, merciful and mild !
  And yet --to Thee those hands they dare to shew !

   To Thee, who didst command affection to the foe.

Thou Friend of Man ! at Pity's call,
   Once more thy Spirit in their hearts renew !

And oh may Heaven, whose mercy stoops to all,
   Their crimes forgive !--they know not what

            they do !

In rival breasts awake thy law of love !

   From Thee all human hope, all comfort, springs!
The mutual wound's keen anguish to remove,

   Arise once more, with healing on thy wings !
So may each doubt dissolve, all discord cease,
And kindred nations bow before the Prince of

          Peace."
 16 MEMOIR OF

    No one was more ready than Mr. Cart-
wright to acknowledge and admire the su
perior power of some of our later poets ; and
when, at a very advanced age, he took a
pleasure in accounting himself the father
of the living poets, he gave a pleasing
instance of his candour in a letter to one
of them,* which it may not be irrelevant

to introduce in this place. " You have, it

seems, made repeated incursions into Par

Inassus, and so have --in Arcadia ego, that

is to say, about half a century ago. You
probably are not aware of the relationship
in which we stand ; having been the father
of the living poets for many years past, you
consequently are one of my poetical sons.
No poetical father, there is reason to be
lieve, ever had so numerous or so illustrious

                 * Mr. James Montgomery.
DE. CABTWRIGHT.  17

Ia family before. When first appeared in

the poetical horizon, there were scarcely a

dozen poets, good or bad : now they are as

numerous as the stars of heaven ; the greater

part shining, not with borrowed light, as

formerly, but with original splendour. You

Iwill most likely be at a loss to know how

make myself out to be the patriarch of the

IEnglish Parnassus. date my poetical pater
Inity from the year 1762, when first ap

peared in print. Not many years after

Iwards published " Armine and Elvira," a

legendary tale, which went through seven

editions in little more than a year, at a

time when few of my poetical sons now

living could have held a pen, or probably
were born."*

   * In the Essay on Imitations of the Ancient Bal

lad, (written in 1830,) prefixed to the third part of
"Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border," Sir Walter
18                                                 -

                MEMOIR OF

   In 1772, Mr. Cartwright married Alice,

the youngest daughter and co-heiress of
Richard Whitaker, Esq., of Doncaster, and,
after his marriage, resided first at Marnham,
and afterwards at Brampton, in Derbyshire,
to the perpetual curacy of which he was

Scott bears the following testimony to the poetical

merit of " Armine and Elvira :"--

   " We need only stop to mention another very

beautiful piece of this fanciful kind, by Dr. Cart-

wright, called « Armine and Elvira,' containing

some excellent poetry, expressed with unusual feli
Icity.
        have a vision of having met this accom

plished gentleman in my very early youth, and am

the less likely to be mistaken, as he was the first

Iliving poet recollect to have seen.* His poem had

IIf* " am right in what must be a very early
Irecollection,
                saw Mr. Cartwright (then a student

of medicine at the Edinburgh University) at the

house of my maternal grandfather, John Euther-

ford, M.D."
DE. CARTWRIGHT.  19

presented by the Dean of Lincoln, Dr. Cust.
He still continued his correspondence with
his old friend, Dr. Langhorne, who in a
letter, dated from Blagden, near Bristol,
expresses himself in the following affection
ate manner.

the distinguished honour to be much admired by our
celebrated philosopher, Dugald Stewart, who was
wont to quote, with much pathos, the picture of

resignation in the following stanza :--

         ' And while his eye to heaven he raised,
           Its silent waters stole away.'"

   It is hardly necessary to remark the slight mis

take relative to Mr. Cartwright's early pursuits.
He never was a student of medicine at any univer
sity.

   In some modern periodical work, along with a
contemptuous notice of " Armine and Elvira," it has
been erroneously stated that Dr. Cartwright was the

author of several novels. There is not the least reason
to believe that he ever wrote a novel in his life.
20 MEMOIR OF

  I" rejoice in your letter for many rea
Isons. You might, for aught had learnt

to the contrary, have been these twenty

months in the number of those Sacerdotes

casti (Mn. VI. 661), who, a sone of our pro

phets hath spoken, wear white ribbons, and

sing songs, and dine upon a grass plot sur

rounded with bays, at the head of the great

Iriver Eridanus. Seriously,  was a very

little while since apprehensive that you were

on the road before me. Amongst the ar

Irivals at the Hotwells, saw a Reverend

Mr. Cartwright, and having never heard of

Iany other person of that denomination,

set off from hence to Bristol, with a melan

choly mind, to satisfy the most painful kind

I Iof curiosity ever felt.  passed with hor

ror, literally speaking, through the shades,

Isuch were the objects saw creeping to and

from the pump, and felt certainly more
DR. CARTWRIGHT.            21

Ieatisfaction in not finding a friend than

ever have known, or ever shall know, in

meeting him. So much for your existence,

which, if it be in any tolerable state, is a

material point. Your poetical being can

neither be doubted nor feared. When you

Ifavour me again, wish you to domesticate

a little. Tell me where, in what manner,

Iand upon what, you live.  should be ex

tremely happy in the indulgence of a hope

that our never broken, though often inter

rupted friendship, might devolve to our little

boys, and should have pleasure in concerting

******with you the means of promoting it; but
                               The grim fury with the

Iabhorred shears.' beg you will present my

most respectful compliments to Mrs. E. C,

Lady Tyrconnel, and the rest of the Marn-

ham family, and believe me, ever yours,

                            " J. Langhorne."
22 MEMOIR OF

   During Mr. Cartwright's residence in
Derbyshire, he made the discovery of a re
medy of considerable efficacy in cases of
putrid fever. The parish of Brampton was
of considerable extent, the inhabitants very

poor, and medical assistance frequently out

of their reach. With a view to relieve the
distresses of his parishioners, he applied
himself to the study of medical books, and

was often enabled to give advice, not the

less welcome for being gratuitous. Of the
circumstances that first led to the trial of
yeast as a remedy for putrid fever, the fol
lowing relation, published in a medical work

of the year 1799, is from his own pen:--

   " During my residence, upwards of twenty

years ago, at Brampton, a populous parish
near Chesterfield, a putrid fever broke out
amongst us. Finding by far the greater
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                23

number of my parishioners too poor to af

Iford themselves medical assistance, under

took, by the help of such books on the sub

ject of medicine as were within my posses

Ision, to prescribe for them.  attended a

boy of about fourteen years of age who was

attacked by the fever. He had not been

ill many days before the symptoms were

Iunequivocally putrid.  then administered

bark, wine, and such other medicines as my

books directed. My exertions were, how

ever, of no avail ; his disorder grew every

day more and more untractable and malig

Inant, so that was in hourly expectation of

his dissolution. Being under the necessity

I Iof taking a journey, before set off, went
Ito see him, as thought, for the last time ;

Iand prepared his parents for the event of
Ihis death, which considered as inevitable,
Iand reconciled them in the best manner
24 MEMOIR OF

Iwas able to a loss which knew they would
Ifeel severely. While was in conversation

on this distressing subject with his mother,

I observed in a corner of the room a small

tub of wort working. The sight brought

Ito my recollection an experiment  had

somewhere met with, of a piece of putrid

meat being made sweet by being suspended

over a tub of wort in the act of fermenta

tion. The idea flashed into my mind that

the yeast might correct the putrid nature of

Ithe disease, and instantly gave him two

Ilarge spoonfuls.  then told the mother if

she found her son better to repeat this dose

Ievery two hours.  then set out on my

journey. Upon my return, after a few days,

I anxiously inquired after the boy, and was

Iinformed that he was recovered.   could

not repress my curiosity, and though greatly

fatigued with my journey, and night was
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                       25

Icome on, went directly to his residence,

which was three miles off, in a wild part of
the moors, and to my great surprise the

boy himself opened the door, looking well,
and he told me he had felt better from the

time he took the yeast.

  " After I left Brampton, I lived in Lei

cestershire. My parishioners there being

Ifew and opulent,  dropped the medical

character entirely, and would not prescribe .
for my own family. One of my domestics fall
ing ill, the apothecary was sent for. Having

great reliance, and deservedly, on the apo
thecary's* skill and judgment, the man was

left entirely to his management. His dis

order, however, kept gaining ground, and
the apothecary finding himself baffled in
every attempt to be of service to him, told

* Mr. Whitchurch, of Melton Mowbray.
   26 MEMOIR OF

   me he considered it to be a lost case, and in

   his opinion the man could not live twenty-

   Ifour hours. On this, determined to try

   Ithe effects of yeast.  gave him two large

   spoonfuls, and in fifteen minutes from taking

   the yeast, his pulse, though still feeble, began

   to get composed and full. In thirty-two

   minutes from his taking he was able to' it,

   get up from his bed. The expression that heI

   made use of to describe the effect to his own

   feelings was, that he felt quite lightsome.'
   At the expiration of the second hour, gave

   him sago, with wine and ginger, &c., and in
   another hour repeated the yeast. An hour

   afterwards, gave the bark as before at the
   I                               ;

   next hour he had food, and an hour after

   that another dose of yeast. He continued

   to recover, and was soon able to go about

   his work as usual.              was riding

      " About year after this, as
   a

                      I

\
          DR. CARTWRIGHT.         27

past a detached farm-house at the outskirts

Iof the village, observed the farmer's daugh

ter standing at the door, apparently in great

affliction. On inquiring into the cause of

her distress, she told me her father was

Idying.   went into the house, and found

him in the last stage of putrid fever. His

tongue was black, his pulse was scarcely

perceptible, and he lay stretched out like   a
corpse, in a state of drowsy insensibility.
immediately procured some yeast, which       I
                                             I

diluted with water, and poured it down his

Ithroat.  then left him, with little hope

Iof recovery.  returned to him in about

two hours, and found him sensible and able

Ito converse.  then gave him a dose of

bark. He afterwards took, at proper inter

Ivals, some refreshment.  stayed with him

till he repeated the yeast, and then left him,

Iwith directions how to proceed.  called

               c2
28 MEMOIR OF

upon him the next morning at nine o'clock,
and found him apparently recovered. He
was an old man, upwards of seventy."

    To these, and similar instances related by
Mr. Cartwright himself, might be added
several others, confirmed by practitioners of
eminence, to whom he had communicated
his discovery. The subject having been
noticed by Dr. Thornton, in his interesting
work on the Philosophy of Medicine, and by
Dr. Beddoes, in " Considerations on the Me
dicinal Use and Production of Factitious
Airs," as well as by other medical writers,

it is unnecessary to enlarge upon it in this

place, or to trace the connexion between the

principle of Mr. Cartwright's experiment
and the modern practice of administering
medicine in a state of effervescence in putrid
complaints. The discovery might, in some
measure, be called an accidental one ; but it
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  29

was one of those accidents of which men of
quick and intelligent minds only, in whom
the habit of observation is constantly on the
alert, know how to avail themselves.

    Mr. Cartwright having been presented to
the living of Goadby Marwood, in Leicester
shire, he removed thither with his family in
1779. Here he employed part of his leisure
time in cultivating his little glebe, and in
this occupation appears to have yielded
freely to the peculiar bent of his inquiring
mind; for his whole system of farming was
little else than a series of experiments. But
his experiments were not ruinous, and this
may be considered as having been the most
happy, as it undoubtedly was the most tran
quil, portion of his life.

    He was at this period a contributor to the
Monthly Review, and Mr. Griffiths, the re
spectable editor of that publication, was a
 30 MEMOIR OF

much-esteemed friend. When Dr. Johnson
pronounced the writers for that work to be
dull men who read their books, he must be
allowed to have passed no small eulogium
upon them ; and indeed, from the whole
tenour of Mr. Griffiths' confidential corres

pondence with Mr. Cartwright, it appeared

to have been his earnest desire that the
work should be conducted with candour and
integrity, and be, what it professed to be, a
review of the literary productions of the
day, and not merely a medium for the diffu
sion of party principles. Even Dr. Johnson,
although in his celebrated interview with

George III. he scrupled not to represent the

Monthly reviewers as enemies to the church
and all establishments, was compelled to do
justice to their care and impartiality. The
worthy editor seems to have been duly
watchful of the motives that might be sup
posed to influence any of the writers en-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  31

gaged in the work ; and though his scrupu
lous honesty might impose some restraint on
the indulgence of personal feeling as well as
of party spirit, yet was the loss of enter
tainment that might ensue from such re
straint more than compensated to the reader
by the sound sense and good taste which

sought to direct, and not mislead, his judg
ment. Mr. Griffiths, alluding, in one of his

letters, to a gentleman who had formerly

belonged to the corps of reviewers, observes,

that " he is a learned and ingenious man,

Ibut would not trust him when he reviews

the works of a friend, nor indeed of an

enemy , for in either case no impartiality is
to be expected from him. Poor Langhorne
was the same, and many a scuffle have we

had about favour and resentment. Pray,

Isir, when are you and to begin to scuffle?
I see no signs of a rupture yet."

    No one could bring a more cool and
                     32 MEMOIR OF

                   unimpassioned temper into the service of
                 literary criticism than Mr. Cartwright, or
                   a judgment less liable to be biassed by
                   political feeling. He was, however, no com
                   promiser of the interests of religion and
                   morality, and has been heard in later years
                    to express great satisfaction on reflecting
                   that, amongst other castigations inflicted on
                   the violation of morals and good taste, he
                    had especially exposed the fallacy and dan
                   gerous tendency of the opinions contained
                   in the works of certain German writers,

                then becoming popular. A review of " An

                   American Farmer's Letters, by Hector
                  St. John," was one of the articles in the

                " Monthly Review" that are now known to
                 have been from Mr. Cartwright's pen.
                 These letters were published by Mr. Thomas
                 Davies,* who, in a letter to Mr. Griffiths,

                                          * Sec Johnson's Life.

X
DR. CARTWKIGHT.  33

Isays -- " can ascertain their authenticity,
Ifor am acquainted with the author. He

is a man of plain and simple manners, with

a strong and enlightened understanding.

You will perceive that he has not argu-

mentatively touched upon the great question
which unhappily divided us from our North

American colonies. His feelings upon the

apprehended expulsion from his farm, which
really took place, are expressed with such
force and energy as cannot be feigned. He
who wrote the chapter of the distresses of a
frontier farmer must have felt them, or he

could not so naturally have described them."

It appeal's that Dr. Johnson's " Lives of

the Poets" were reviewed by Mr. Cart-
wright ; and Mr. Griffiths, in a letter relative

to that publication, enters at large upon a
subject, now indeed of little moment, but

which seemed then to have been interesting

c3
34 MEMOIR OF

to literary men --viz., the share that Theo-

philus Cibber really had had in the com
pilation of certain lives of the poets that
were published in his name.

      ME. GRIFFITHS TO MR. CARTWRIGHT.

                          " Turnham Green, June 16th.

  " Dear Sir,-- I have sent you a FEAST !

Johnson's new volumes of the ' Lives of the

Poets.' You will observe that Savage's life

Iis one of the volumes.  suppose it is the

same which he published about thirty years
ago, and therefore you will not be obliged

to notice it otherwise than in the course of
enumeration. In the account of Hammond,

my good friend Samuel has stumbled on a
material circumstance in the publication of

Gibber's Lives of the Poets. He intimates

that Cibber never saw the work. This is a

reflection on the bookseller, your humble
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  35

servant. The bookseller has now in his

possession Theophilus Cibber's receipt for

twenty guineas, (Johnson says ten,) in con
sideration of which he engaged to ' revise,

correct, and improve, the work, and also to
affix his name in the title-page. Mr. Cibber

did accordingly very punctually revise every

sheet; he made numerous corrections, and

added many improvements --particularly in

those lives which came down to his own

times, and brought him within the circle of

his own and his father's literary acquaint

ance, especially in the dramatic line. To

the best of my recollection he gave some

entire lives, besides inserting abundance of

paragraphs, of notes, anecdotes, and remarks,

in those which were compiled by Shiells and

Iother writers.  say other, because many

of the best pieces of biography in that col

lection were not written by Shiells, but by
36 MEMOIR OF

superior hands. In short, the engagement
of Gibber, or some other Englishman, to

superintend what Shiells in particular should
offer, was a measure absolutely necessary,
not only to guard against his Scotticisms,
and other defects of expression, but his
virulent Jacobitism, which inclined him to
abuse every Whig character that came in
his way. This, indeed, he would have
done, but Cibber (a staunch Williamite)
opposed and prevented him, insomuch that
a violent quarrel arose on the subject. By
the way, it seems to me, that Shiells' Jaco
bitism has been the only circumstance that
has procured him the regard of Mr. John
son, and the favourable mention that he has
made (in the paragraph referred to) of

Shiells' ' virtuous Life and pious End' --

expressions that must draw a smile from

Ievery one who knows, as did, the real
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  37

character of Robert Shiells. And now, what
think you of noticing this matter, in regard
to truth and the fair fame of the honest
bookseller !"*

    Mb. Griffiths to Mr. Cartwright.

                                           "July, 1780.

  I" send you the Candidate, an epistle to

the Monthly Reviewers, which, on account
of the peculiar compliment to us, may de-

    * Boswell, in his " Life of Dr. Johnson," having

recorded a conversation in which the latter expressed

his belief that Shiells was the sole compiler of the
work in question, a correction of this statement ap
peared in the " Monthly Review" for May, 1792,
and which Mr. Boswell candidly inserted in a sub
sequent edition of his work. The statement there
corresponds exactly with Griffiths' confidential acj
count of the matter ; and the editor of Johnson's
Life candidly adds, " this explanation appeal's to me

very satisfactory."
    38 MEMOIR OF

    serve particular attention. You will doubt

    less find --

                   ' As a friend,

    Something to blame, and something to commend.'

    Perhaps you will think with me that this

    poem will particularly call for criticism, --

    generous and manly criticism, as well as

    liberal praise where due ; but at all events

    it must not be thought that we are to be
    coaxed out of our judgment; if this were

    the case we should soon have plenty of such

    Icompliments.  cannot guess at the writer

    of this Candidate for literary fame."

        This poem is now known to have been
    one of the earliest publications of Mr. Crabbe,

    and though it must be considered as fall

    ing far short of the excellence of his later

    productions, it appears to have excited no

    inconsiderable degree of attention and curi-

'"
                DR. CAfiTWRIGHT.  39

osity on the part of those to whom it was

addressed.      In a subsequent letter, Mr.

Griffiths observes -- " As the Candidate is

addressed to the corps, perhaps you may
like to hear something of the general opi

nion of your learned associates concerning

Iit. What have collected is as follows:

' that although we may not be able to speak

so well of the poem as the author wishes us

to do, yet it must be allowed that he pos

sesses talents ; and many lines are exceed
ingly good, and much in the manner of

Pope, while others are flat and prosaic ; that

his ardour ought not to be discouraged ;
that the capital fault of the piece that
                a
                              is,

                                    i it
wants subject to make proper and for
I
             a
cible impression on the mind.' On the whole

cannot help thinking that this Candidate

merits encouragement and yet dare say

you will agree with me that the merit of
                ;

                         I
40 MEMOIR OF

his poem is not great enough for extraor
dinary praise." The reception that the
Candidate met with from the Reviewers,
happily was not such as to repress the

poetic spirit of its gifted author ; and if this
little poem possessed no other merit, it

would be highly interesting as a sketch,
however slight and imperfect, from the hand
of so great a master. His own peculiar
style may be traced in it along with those
touches, sometimes of self-confidence, some
times of timidity, which not unfrequently
exist together in a powerful, yet susceptible
mind. Notwithstanding the intimacy that
 afterwards subsisted between the author of
 the Candidate and his reviewer, there is no
 reason to think that they were known to
 each other as such. Mr. Cartwright sub
 sequently became one of Mr. Crabbe's warm
 est admirers.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  41

     One more extract from the correspond
 ence of honest Griffiths may be permitted, as
 affording a useful admonition to the bio
 grapher, who, conscious how few passages
 in a real life are calculated to amuse the
 generality of readers, may be tempted to
 supply the deficiency by filling up his pages
 with insignificant or gossiping details. "We
 agree likewise in opinion as to the compile-
 ment of *****'s Memoirs-, which are, indeed,
 put together in a slovenly manner ; but my
 greatest objection lies in the minutice with
 which those two great volumes are bumped
 out, as the printers phrase it. Had all the

frivolous, Iand, may add, old womanish

 things which are inserted been left out, the
 book would have been less tedious, as well

 as less expensive."

     The retired habits of Mr. Cartwright's
 life, as well as the profession of which he
42 MEMOIR OF

was a member, had hitherto kept him from
taking any active part in politics, although
his opinions were pretty much in unison
with those of his brother, Major Cartwright,
who already began to be well known as the

advocate of parliamentary reform. In 1780,
Mr., afterwards Sir William Jones, was pro

posed as a candidate to represent the uni
versity of Oxford ; and, on this occasion,
Mr. Cartwright made him a voluntary offer
of his vote, explaining his reasons for so
doing in the following letter to a friend and
connexion of his family, who had applied
for his interest in favour of another can

didate :--

   " Dear Sir, -- I have this moment re

ceived a letter from Lady Tyrconnel,* in
timating that you were much interested in

    * Elizabeth, relict of John, Viscount Tyrconnel,
a nd sister to Mr. Cartwright's father.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  43

the success of Sir William Dolben, at the

approaching election for the University of

IOxford, and that you are desirous that

should embrace the same sentiments with

yourself. Unfortunately it is not in my

Ipower, much as may wish to pay atten

tion to your recommendation, to comply

Iwith your request. Immediately when

heard that Mr. Jones, (a character for

Iwhom have always expressed the highest
Iesteem and veneration,) was a candidate,

voluntarily made him an offer of my vote,

Iand wrote also to my old tutor, Mr. Coul-

son, of University College, who applied to

me in favour of Dr. Scott, that as far as the
doctor's interest interfered not with Mr.

Jones's, he should have the preference to

every one else who might be proposed. My
motive for espousing these gentlemen rather

than any other competitors, was founded not
44 MEMOIR OF

Ionly on the opinion had formed of their

integrity, which it would be criminal to

Ioverlook, but must own also in the inte
Irest felt in the dignity and reputation of

the University. A society, principally in

stituted for the cultivation of letters, and

which is supposed at least to consist of lite

rary men, cannot, it is presumed, be so re

spectably, or indeed so properly represented,
as by men who are most conspicuous for

literary attainments ; and it seems but just

that those whose superior abilities and learn

ing reflect honour upon the University,
should have in return such honours con

ferred upon them as the University may

have it in their power to bestow. Upon

these principles, it will be no reflection upon

any man to be postponed to such men as Mr.

IJones and Dr. Scott.  can assure you it is

a matter of considerable mortification to me,

Iimpressed as am with the remembrance of
                DR. CARTWRIGHT.              45

your repeated kindness, and desirous of ex

pressing my sense of it on every occasion

that shall offer itself, that in the present

Iinstance am prevented giving that kind of

testimony which seems to be required from

Ime of the respect with which am, dear

Sir, &c.              " Edmund  Cartwright.
     " Goadby,
                May 30, 1780."

   Until the departure of Sir William Jones
for India, in the spring of 1783, Mr. Cart-
wright enjoyed the gratification of an inti
macy and correspondence with that highly
gifted man, whose untimely death was con
sidered by him as a private affliction, as
well as a public misfortune. Several of Sir
William Jones's letters to Dr. Cartwright
have been published in his life by Lord
Teignmouth.* The following, which is dated

   * See Teignmouth's Memoirs of Sir W. Jones,

p. 216, et seq.
46 MEMOIR OF

from the Temple, 24th March, 1783, may

not be unacceptable to the reader : --

" Allow me, dear Sir, so far to disobey you

as to acknowledge the receipt of two very

obliging letters, and to thank you most cor

dially for the friendly expressions which they

Icontain. am, indeed, much hurried, partly

by serious business, partly by troublesome

though necessary forms, and have no time

Ito write the thousandth part of what could

Isay if had the happiness of being with

Iyou.  have no thoughts at present of col

lecting my political or literary tracts, but

am equally flattered by your obliging offer.

There is a press at Malda, and another at

ICalcutta, where hope to print some eastern
Ivarieties ; and if can bring the Persian
Iepic poem to Europe in an English dress,

shall be as far below Lycurgus as Firdusi is

below Homer, but shall think the analogy
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                                 47

just, and my country will be obliged to me.

IThe family in Hampshire, to whom read

your sweet poems at Christmas, heard them

Iwith delight.  am, dear Sir, your much

obliged, and ever faithful

                             " William Jones."

    During Mr. Cartwright's residence in the
Vale of Belvoir, the circle of his intimates
became enriched by the addition of one

whose works contain, perhaps, the most
inexhaustible source of interest of all the
productions of that bright constellation of

British poets which has illumined the close
of the last, and beginning of the present
century. About the year 1783, the Rev.

George Crabbe became a near neighbour to

Mr. Cartwright, and subsequently a valued
friend. Although in after life they hap
pened to be much separated, they still kept
up a correspondence by letter for nearly
48 MEMOIR OF

forty years, and most interesting is it to
contemplate in the correspondence of Mr.

Crabbe a mind unchanged through all the
vicissitudes of life, and retaining the same
unaffected simplicity when arrived at emi
nence, that had adorned it in obscurity and
retirement. He had already published, with

his name, " The Village," and " The
Library," both of which poems had met with
the approbation of Dr. Johnson, Mr. Burke,

and other literary judges of the day. The
time had not then arrived for the public in
general to appreciate justly the promise
which these poems held out of still better
things, and Mr. Cartwright has been often
heard to express his surprise that they had
not received more notice, as well as his re
gret that Mr. Crabbe did not exercise his
powerful genius on some more extended
work. He had subsequently the gratifica-
DR. CART WRIGHT.  49

tion of seeing the public, as it were, awakened
to a due sense of his friend's extraordinary
merit. Twenty-five years afterwards, Mr.
Crabbe published a new edition of his
earlier pieces, with the addition of the
" Parish Kegister," a poem in which his

graphic pen has given the deepest interest
to the humblest scenes, by the mere power
of faithful delineation ; and which can hardly
fail to be read with undiminished delight
as long as any sympathy with truth and
nature, any perception of genuine pathos,
shall exist.*

    As his subsequent poems are so well
known, and have been so justly admired,

it may not be uninteresting (though some-

   * The editor of this little Memoir cannot forbear
expressing the high gratification derived from pe
rusing the interesting Life of Mr. Crabbe, published
by his son in 1834.

                                                 D
50 MEMOIR OF

what anticipating the order of time) to
introduce in this place an amusing de
scription, given by Mr. Crabbe, of the
notoriety they had brought upon him.

FROM MR. CRABBE TO DR. CARTWRIGHT.

                                              "June, 1813.

   " Now, my dear sir, I begin to think

Ithat am, as it were, a great man! --a

man to be spoken of -- not so much as

Nicholson, who killed his master, or Peg

Nicholson, who would have killed his Ma

                it

                           of,
                                              ;
jesty, but still spoken in an honest way,

enough to have  called fame for, look

ye, have letters addressed to me, as an
I

author, from strangers and strange ad

mirers, and not that fame? Oh! that
   is

Hatchard's current were as nattering. No

less than four letters from gentlemen and

ladies lie at this time before me; and           I
          DR. CARTWRIGHT.                   51

Imake my boast of them to you, as in

tended to do to Sir Walter Scott, whose

Iletter of the 18th have to reply to, and
I Iwill let him know what a man am. A
Igentleman from town insists that have

my picture painted, and prints taken for

my books. Again, a lady invites me (she

Iknows not my age, nor hers) into the
Imountainous countries, that may witness

the sublime of nature, and describe it in

that beautifulf  *  *      *                *

Well, thirdly, another lady offers me a

narrative for a new work, which, if related

in my patheticf  *  *      *                *

Iand lastly, have a young poet's request

for an opinion of his verses, mixed, you

may be sure, with notable things said of

my own."

t These blanks are in the original letter.
                   d2
52 MEMOIR OF

    The selections that have heen made from
the correspondence of Dr. Cartwright's early
friends, are introduced chiefly for the pur
pose of shewing that there was nothing in
the pursuits of the first half of his life
calculated to lead his mind to study the
theory of mechanics, or in his hahits to
bring him acquainted with their practical
application. His pursuits had been purely
literary, and his associates were as un
knowing as himself in everything relating
to manufactures. He was not only esteemed
for the elegance of his attainments, but he
had also at that time a fair prospect of
advancement in his profession, and of at
taining a competency sufficient for the liberal

support of his station in society. A circum

stance, altogether accidental, now occurred

to occasion an entire change in all his
views, and to turn his mind into a different
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  53

direction, from which it never afterwards

diverged, but continued, even as life ad
vanced, to pursue its object with undi
minished intenseness.
54 MEMOIR OF

CHAPTER II.

In the summer of 1784, Mr. Cartwright

happening to be at Matlock, in Derbyshire,

became, during his visit there, highly in

terested in the progress of those ingenious

manufactures, which not many years before

had been established in that immediate

neighbourhood.  The application of ma

chinery to the art of spinning was at that

time a novelty ; and the splendid fortunes

that some ingenious mechanics, who had

been successful in introducing  it,  were
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  55

supposed to be realizing,* seemed to hold
out extraordinary encouragement to the ex
ercise of any inventive faculty that should
contribute to the improvement of our na
tional manufactures. Mr. Cartwright was
not aware in how high a degree a faculty
of this nature existed in his own mind,
until it was brought into action by the
accidental occurrence of a conversation at

the public table, on the subject of new and
ingenious inventions, especially that of Sir
Kichard Arkwright's recently invented me
thod of spinning cotton by machinery.

   It was observed by some of the company
present, that if this new mode of spinning

   * In proof of the extent to which these expecta

tions were subsequently fulfilled, we may here refer
to the fact, that Mr. Arkwright, (son of Sir Richard),
who is just deceased, is stated to have left behind

him a fortune of not less than seven, millions sterling.
56 MEMOIR OF

by machinery should be generally adopted,
so much more yarn would be manufactured
than our own weavers could work up, that
the consequence would be a considerable

export to the Continent, where it might be

woven into cloth so cheaply, as to injure
the trade in England.* Mr. Cartwright
replied to this observation, that the only
remedy for such an evil would be to apply
the power of machinery to the art of
weaving as well as to that of spinning, by
contriving looms to work up the yarn as
fast as it was produced by the spindle.
Some gentlemen from Manchester, who

   * The fulfilment of this prediction, twenty years
subsequently to the above conversation, in fact led
to the first adoption of the power-loom, which came
afterwards into more general use, from the great
demand for English cotton goods, in consequence of
the disturbed state of the Continent.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  57

were present, and who, it may be presumed,

were better acquainted with the subject of
discussion, would not admit of the possi
bility of such a contrivance, on account of
the variety of movements required in the
operation of weaving. Mr. Cartwright, who,

if he ever had seen weaving by hand, had

certainly paid no particular attention to

the process by which it was performed,

maintained that there was no real impos
sibility in applying power to any part of
the most complicated machine, (producing
as an instance the automaton chess-player,)
and that whatever variety of movements
the art of weaving might require, he did
not doubt but that the skilful application
of mechanism might produce them. The
discussion having proceeded to some length,

it made so strong an impression on Mr.

Cartwright's mind, that immediately on

                                    D3
58 MEXOR OF

his return home, he set about endeavouring
to construct a machine that should justify
the proposition he had advanced, of the
practicability of weaving by machinery.

It may be remarked, that the incredulity

expressed by those gentlemen, who were
of all persons most likely to be acquainted
with the met, had any attempt been pre
viously made to weave by machinery, is a
pretty decisive proof that nothing of the
kind had then been effected.

    His first attempts, as might be supposed,
were rude and clumsy ; but as neither
drawings nor models now remain of them,
we have no means of tracing his earliest
steps in mechanical experiment, nor of
ascertaining the mode in which he proposed
to overcome difficulties that had appeared

insurmountable even to experienced mecha
nicians.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  59

   In the course of a few months, however,

he had brought his loom to such a state of
progress, as led him to imagine that it might
eventually become profitable; and to the
surprise of every one who was at all con
versant with undertakings of this nature,
as well as to that of his personal friends,
he took out a patent in April, 1785, in
order to secure to himself the expected
advantages of the invention.

    The patent, or, as it is now called, the

power-loom, has doubtless been receiving
continual additions from various hands

during the last fifty years ; and the beau

tiful machine (adapted as it is to every

variety of fabric, and now in use to an
immense extent) differs considerably in
detail, even from the most improved form
of Mr. Cartwright's invention. But to him
the merit is due of having been the first
60 MEMOIR OF

to apply power successfully to the business
of weaving, and the principles by which he
achieved that first great step, may be traced
through every progressive improvement ; and
unquestionably opened the way to many of
those ingenious additions by means of which
later mechanists have brought the power-
loom to its present state of excellence.

Before we proceed further in relating the
progress of Mr. Cartwright's mechanical
career, it may be necessary to give a slight
sketch of the mode in which hand-weaving
is usually performed ; in order that the reader
who is not conversant with such subjects,
may be enabled to form a clear idea of the
nature of the movements required, and to
produce which, manual dexterity was con

sidered indispensable.
    The annexed plate represents the princi

pal features of a common hand-loom, consist
I          DR. CARTWRIGHT.              61

        of,

            A,

                                                        ;

                                       B,

                                                                    ;

                                               F,
                                                                                               ;;
   ing     the yarn beam    cloth beam

   DE, treadles; dd, heddles [or healds]

   G, lay or lathe, including the reed  seat

   board.

   In the operation of weaving, the work-
62 MEMOIR OF

man being seated on the board F, moves

with his feet alternately the treadles DE,

by which motion the heddles are depressed
or raised. The alternate threads of the

warp having been separated by passing
through each respective heddle, the action
of the heddle produces the shed, or space
through which the shuttle has to pass. The
shuttle is thrown from hand to hand, whilst
the weaver with the hand last disengaged
throws the lay or lathe back in an oblique
direction, which being suspended from the
upper frame-work of the loom, and returned
to its natural perpendicular position, presses
the woof or thread, deposited by the shuttle,
close to the cloth already woven.

   In this operation, the alternate action up

and down of the heddles, the alternate
action transversely of the shuttle, with the
additional one of throwing back the lathe,
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  63

have all to be produced by the hands and
feet of the workman, without the aid of any
intermediate instrument, that might have
suggested to the mind of a novice in
mechanics a feasible method of applying
machinery to the purpose. The fly-shut
tle might indeed be considered as an ap
proximation towards a more improved prac
tice; but that ingenious contrivance, al
though invented by Mr. Kay as early as the
year 1738, does not appear to have been in
general use when Mr. Cartwright first gave
his attention to the subject.

    Mr. Cartwright's first power-loom, as
described in the specification of 1785, was,

as may be supposed, a somewhat rude con
trivance, and differed materially from the
form which he afterwards gave to it. The
warp was placed perpendicularly, and the
shuttle was thrown by springs connected
 64 MEMOIR OF

with a cylinder placed beneath the machine.
This cylinder also gave motion to two levers,
one of which reversed the threads of the
warp, and the other elevated the reed, which
again descended by means of its own weight.
The tension of the warp was produced by
weights suspended from the beams, as in the
common loom.

    This simple apparatus rapidly received
great modifications from Mr. Cartwright's
hands, as is shewn in his several specifica
tions of 1786, 1787, and 1790. The warp
was now placed horizontally, and the several
parts of the machine were adjusted in a
form which in its general features scarcely
differs from the power-loom of the present
day. The application of a crank on the axis
of a wheel communicating with the moving
power, was the mode by which Mr. Cart-
wright effected the alternate motion of the
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  65

lathe. Simple and obvious as such a con
trivance may now seem to those who are
in the habit of seeing hundreds of power-
looms in daily operation, yet before his time

it does not appear to have been thought of ;
and in this invention alone he may be con
sidered as having made no small progress

towards weaving by machinery. It is pro

bable that a contrivance for throwing the

shuttle, so as to make it pass and repass,

and yet keep within its prescribed bounds,
did not so readily occur to his mind ; for
the compiler of this memoir has a perfect

recollection of the amusement it used to

afford his children to watch their father,
imitating the action of a weaver throwing
his shuttle, as he walked up and down the
room absorbed in his new speculations.

    He succeeded, however, in overcoming
this difficulty, by means of tappets fixed on
66 MEMOIR OF

the axis of a wheel communicating with the
moving power.* These tappets give action
to the treadles, which being connected by

fmeans of strings with the picker, (an

apparatus placed at each end of the box
in which the shuttle moves,) an impulse is
thereby communicated to the picker, which

causes it to throw the shuttle from side to

side with an accuracy superior to that of the

hand. In like manner was the requisite

action of the heddles or healds produced,
and those three principal actions being thus
accomplished, the foundation was laid for

   * A tappet is a wheel, or portion of a wheel,

fixed eccentrically upon an axis. The treadle
being kept in contact with the tappet, is alternately
raised and depressed as the lathe revolves.

   f In the North of England, to pick, means to

throw; and therefore the name of picker is applied
by the workmen to express that part of the machine
which throws the fly-shuttle.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  67

those manifold improvements which have
progressively been made in the application
of mechanical power to weaving, and of
which Mr. Cartwright's invention still forms

the leading principle.
   The reader will find in the Appendix a

figure and description of a portion of Mr.
Cartwright's power-loom, as modified by
him in 1790, including a method for stop
ping the loom on the breaking of the thread,
which is very similar to that still in use.
Further improvements were afterwards in
troduced by him, and secured by patent in
1792 ; among which are a plan for weaving

checks by means of a double shuttle-box --
for tightening the selvage--and for making

the lathe give a sharp blow. The limits of
this work do not admit of our entering into

greater detail respecting these less important
features of Mr. Cartwright's mechanical

labours.
68 MEMOIR OF

That he had early imparted to some of

his friends the hopes he began to entertain
of the success of his new invention, will

appear from the letters of Mr. Crabbe, to

whom he communicated from time to time

the progress of his mechanical labours. In

December, 1784, within very few months of

Mr. Cartwright's first attempt at weaving,

his friend the poet writes -- " You shall not

find me smiling at your loom when you grow

Iserious in it.  have the worst mechanical

conception that any man can have, but you

have my best wishes. May you weave your

webs of gold !"

                 "Belvoir Castle, Feb. 14, 1785.

I" am not a little surprised at what you

Itell me of your enterprise.  have a thou

sand good wishes for your success, without

one idea of your contrivance. Mrs. Crabbe

has a better conception of your plan, and no
          DR. CARTWRIGHT.                                           69

Iless desire that you may accomplish it.

am about my contrivances too, but mine is

spinning--spinning flimsy verses. Dodsley

shall manufacture them, and send you a

sample."

                             " Belvoir Castle, May, 1785.

   " Fortune smile upon your undertaking ;

or, not to be heathenish on a serious subject,

God bless you in --only remember when

you grow very rich, that we were friends
I

              of
                    a

                     it it,

                                is

                                                                 ;

                                     if
before, and do not look down on us as the

summer birds that will then come and sere

nade you daily. They talk here of your

machine, but they are shy of us                                     they say

any other than well,  amongst themselves,

and scarcely meet with anybody who has

any opinion at all upon the subject."

Although the actual production of his

loom was  humbler texture than that

anticipated in the kind wishes of his friend,
   70 MEMOIR OF

   yet Mr. Cartwright considered it sufficiently

   satisfactory to induce him to present a spe

   cimen of it to Mrs. Crabbe; for, in June,

   "I1785, Mr. Crabbe says,                         have just time

   to thank you for your letter, and to present

   my wife's thanks for your cloth, of which

   Ishe is very proud.  need not repeat my

   congratulations, nor our wishes. I, who

   never had a mechanical idea in my life,

   begin to lament my want of capacity to

   comprehend, in some measure, how these

   Ithings can be ; but comfort myself that

   my ignorance is not, as ignorance generally

   of the malignant kind."
   is,
                                                 a
   In 1785, some property in the town and

   neighbourhood of Doncaster having devolved

   to Mr. Cartwright and his family, he was

   induced to fix his residence principally in

   that place, where finding skilful workmen

   more attainable than in country village,

x
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  71

he applied himself with increasing energy to
the perfecting of a contrivance in which he

had already made no inconsiderable progress.

Early in the year 1786, he visited Manches
ter, partly with the view of engaging some
of the superior workmen of that place to
assist him in the construction of a more per
fect model of his machine than he had

hitherto been able to accomplish, and also
in the hope that some of the opulent and
enterprising manufacturers of that flourish
ing town might be induced to enter into his
views, and give effect to the productions of
his inventive genius, by the aid of their
practical knowledge. The following letter
to his friend, the Kev. W. U. Wray, con
tains a description of his early difficulties,
as well as of his subsequent expectations of

success :--

   I" When arrived at this place (Manches
72 MEMOIR OF

Iter) found my machine not even begun

upon ; indeed, the workmen who had under

taken despaired of ever making answer
I                                                          I it

    it,
            it

                      a
the purpose was intended for, and there

fore, suppose, were not willing to consume

their time upon fruitless pursuit.                               have,

however, the pleasure to tell you, that the

whole system of                 it       now finally adjusted,

                                     is

and so much so, both to mine and the work

men's conviction, that we cannot entertain

Ithe shadow of doubt respecting its success.
                             ahave taken some pains to make myself

acquainted with the manufactures of this
place, which has much contributed to the
perfection of what have been aiming at.

    cannot forbear telling you, that the
I

                 is

                   I

                                                       is
machine so exceedingly simple and cheap,

as not to cost (after the model once made
to work) above five or six pounds."

   By another letter to the same gentleman,
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  73

written also from Manchester, in May,
1786, the fact is ascertained of his having
at that time effected an improvement in his

loom, which was subsequently considered of

great importance --viz., the stopping of itself

of the machine, on the accidental breaking
of a thread : " Respecting my business,

sorry am I to say that it seems very little

nearer a conclusion than when you left me.

Delay upon delay. It is a satisfaction, how

ever, that the delay does not arise from any
unforeseen difficulty. The apparatus for
stopping when the thread breaks, either in

the warp or woof, is completed, and performs
its business with the greatest accuracy and

facility." A projector may overrate his own

success, or an experimentalist be disap
pointed even in the best founded expecta

tions; and, therefore, the ill fortune that
pursued Mr. Cartwright for so many years

                                             E
74 MEMOIR OF

of his life might be considered as the not

unusual lot of the ingenious; but it was

much more remarkable, that he should live
to see his self-confidence completely justified.
Twenty years afterwards, from the very
place where the machine that he describes

first struggled into existence, and where it

was most especially decried and opposed, a
memorial from several of the most influential
manufacturers was offered to the legislature,

in which it was stated that Mr. Cartwright's
looms were employed there to the extent of

several thousands.
    During his temporary residence at Man

chester he continued to report the progress

of his experiments to Mr. Crabbe, who ex
presses his participation in his success in the

following pleasant terms :--
DR. CARTWRIGHT.              75

                                          "May 8th, 1786.

   " Every new hope you give me of your

Isuccess makes me happy, and believe you

cannot have more zealous well wishers for it

Ithan Mrs. Crabbe and myself, nor am dis
Iinterested, since expect to be maintained

handsomely as a decayed poet, and my wife

is scheming every day to entitle herself to a

pension for decayed projectors."

    "May 27th, 1786.

I" am rejoiced to hear so happy an

Iaccount of your prospects.  do not think

the time long that you take for the comple

tion of your labours, in any respect, but

that of your being absent. You wrong your

mechanical talent, for though chance might

help you at first, it must be a chance indeed

that could carry you on so without skill.

IYou only mean, conclude, that you know

E2
76 MEMOIR OF                                of,I

mechanics practically, without having a        a
mathematical foundation to build upon ; nor
ahad Archimedes himself, that we know

believe."                                   jto

   The little encouragement that Mr. Cart-
wright met with at the time from persons
already engaged in manufacturing concerns,
was probably the cause of his deciding on
somewhat hazardous undertaking; no less
than the establishment, under his own direc
tion, of weaving and spinning factory at
Doncaster, and in which free scope might be
given to every description of mechanical
experiment. Having engaged the most skil
ful workmen he could procure, he continued
to make repeated alterations in his loom;
and one branch of mechanism leading
another, he effected important improvements
in the art of spinning as well as in that of

weaving.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  77

    The capability of the weaving-machine
seemed now to be unequivocally proved.
From the report of an aged person now
living, who was employed at the factory at
its first commencement, it appears that
twenty looms were shortly set to work ; ten
for muslin, or muslinette, eight for cotton,
one for sail-cloth, and one for coloured check.
The machinery was at first worked by a
bull, but in 1788 or 1789, he set up a

steam-engine.

   It may be presumed that the fabric pro

duced in this infant manufactory was of
some excellence, from the following letter
from Mr. Cartwright's old friend, Dr. Thur-
low, Bishop of Durham, to whose lady he

had presented a piece of muslin :--

  I I" Dear Sir, -- am ashamed, when look

at the date of your letter, to have so long
78 MEMOIR OF

neglected to acknowledge the pleasure Mrs.

IThurlow and received from its contents.

We were exceedingly glad to find that you
have so happily and fully succeeded in all
your machinery, and no less happy to hear

that it is likely to prove so very lucrative

to the ingenious mechanic. We most sin

cerely hope that it will prove as productive

of advantage as of renown to the inventor,
and that he and the public will be equally
benefited by his various and ingenious con
trivances.

   " Mrs. Thurlow, who has been for some

weeks confined, is at last come abroad, and

has determined to put herself into a dress
made out of the piece of muslinette you
were so good as to present her, and which
for its novelty, and being the first fruits of
your labours and art, she prizes beyond the
richest productions of the East.
DE. CARTWRIGHT.               79

    " We hope to see you in Doncaster as we

pass through to London, and then and there

will you receive my wife's thanks for your
kind and, in many respects, valuable pre

sent, and our united congratulations on

Iyour success. At present, conceive, you

are so much taken up with your machina
tions (for they must not be denominated
manufactures), that we must not entertain
a hope of seeing you at Auckland before the

Christmas holidays, soon after which we

propose leaving this part of the world. If

you can find leisure and inclination to take

such a journey, no one can be more glad to
see you (for as long a visit as you can
make) than, my dear sir, your affectionate
humble servant,

                            " Thos. Duresme.

"Auckland, Oct. 24th, 1787."
80 MEMOIR OF

  It is probable that a piece of muslin even

such as the lady of a bishop would not dis
dain to wear in 1787, would, under any
circumstances, be of a quality very inferior
to what is now produced ; but that inferiority
woidd proceed no less from the spinning
than the weaving. Notwithstanding the
wonderful inventions of Hargreaves, Ark-
wright, and Crompton, &c., the art of cotton-
spinning might be said to be in its infancy,

compared with the perfection to which it has

since been brought. The finest yarn then
produced would hardly have made a piece of
muslin such as a lady now would think fit
to wear.

    However gratifying to Dr. Cartwright's
feelings the progress of his new discoveries

might be, it soon became evident that the

establishment at Doncaster, on the whole,

was far from being profitable. The " fac-
DR. CARTWRIGIIT.  81

tory system" was then in its infancy, and
his own want of experience in the details of
business such as he was now engaged in,
occasioned all the work under his direction

to be done at a more than ordinary expense.
And being in some cases dependent on other
branches of manufacture for the completion
of his own, he was continually exposed to
the influence of a narrow-minded jealousy,
which now began to operate against him,
but which probably proceeded from a grow
ing conviction, on the part of the manufac
turing interest, of the importance of his
invention.* Various petty means were
practised, in order to obstruct the popula-

   * " The same spirit of opposition that Mr. C. met
With had driven Mr. Kay, the inventor of the flyJ
shuttle, from England, as well as Ilargreaves, the1
inventor of the spinning-jenny, from his native
place, to settle in Nottingham; but a more striking

                                         E3
82 MEMOIR OF

rity of the machine-woven goods. The
cottons sent by Mr. Cartwright to be printed
were frequently rendered unsaleable, by

obsolete patterns and imperfect execution;
and of his best and most uninjured articles,
the chief consumption was in presents to his
friends, or in supplying furniture for his own

house. In the meantime, the extraordinary

ingenuity of the invention itself, as well as
the peculiar circumstances under which it
first appeared, had awakened a considerable
degree of interest, and Mr. Cartwright, as
might have been expected, was by turns
admired for the vigour of his inventive
genius, and condemned for the rashness of
his speculations. Attempts also were made

instance of prejudice, was the opposition to Sir
Richard Arkwright's application for relief from a
duty on calico." -- See Baines' Hist, of Cotton
Manufacture;
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  83

to seduce his workmen, as well as to evade

his patent right, by using his machine dif

ferently modified ; and, indeed, the openness
with which he frequently communicated his
ideas, joined to the extreme easiness of his
temper, rendered such attempts at piracy by
no means difficult, and tended eventually to
involve him in several vexatious disputes
and expensive lawsuits.

    He had not taken into the account, that
ingenuity alone was not sufficient to ensure
protection, for a man of his character and
habits, in the path he had newly entered
on; and when he ventured to emulate the
successful enterprise of others, he did not
consider that its most striking examples
were in men who had either risen from the
working, or still belonged to the manufac
turing classes. Neither did he calculate on
the importance of being trained to habits of
84 MEMOIR OF

industry and business, or on the necessity of
a far more intimate knowledge than he pos
sessed of the feelings and prejudices of the
class of persons he had to deal with ; who
though shrewd and intelligent in their own
ihimediate line of business, had no very
enlarged views beyond it.

   Nor was Mr. Cartwright's new position
in society altogether without its trials. By
the upper class of the inhabitants of a pro
vincial town, proud of their exemption from

commerce and manufactures, his proceedings
were viewed with no small degree of distrust ;
and so portentous an innovation as the
introduction of a steam-engine, was received

with expressions of general dissatisfaction.
Although some few of his personal connect
tions and friends participated in his own
sanguine views, and even joined in the
pecuniary part of the speculation, by others
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  85

he was considered as having deserted his
caste, whilst by the more rigid he was con
demned for engaging so deeply in occupa
tions unsuited to his profession. With the
poor of the place, however, his establishment

was far from being equally unpopular. It

afforded employment to numbers, without
interfering with their previous occupations ;
and in addition to remuneration for their
industry, they were certain of assistance,
when required, from his benevolence. His
name is still venerated by the descendants
of his ancient workmen. To men of inge
nuity and talents his house was always open,
and in an intelligent and intellectual, though
somewhat miscellaneous society, he consoled
himself for the reserve of his more fastidious
acquaintance. In reverting to this period
of Mr. Cartwright's life, we are fully sen
sible of the change that the last fifty years
86 MEMOIR OF

have produced in the opinions of nearly

every class of the community. A man of

genius now, whose inventions should tend to
increase that general diffusion of the conve
niences of life, which marks a truly civilized
people, would have more to fear from com

petition than from prejudice. But at the
time when he first commenced his mecha
nical career, there was a considerable class
of persons, who, dreading the advance of
every degree in society below themselves,
deprecated the progress of machinery, as
being the means of supplying the poor with
indulgences heretofore confined to the rich,

and consequently tending to raise them
higher in the scale of refinement than was
compatible with the due subordination of

society.

   It is hardly necessary to combat objections

which few persons now will be found to
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  87

entertain; nor does it come within the

object of this volume to discuss so extensive
a question as the general results of machi

nery. But it may be observed that it is

the higher classes who have been the great
est gainers by the progress of improvement

in the mechanic arts. The elegances and
conveniences administered through the prac
tical science of the manufacturer have con
tributed to raise them from a state of feudal
barbarism, in which, from the want of com
forts endured by all classes alike, the actual
difference of condition between the high and
the low, as to many of the appliances of life,
was much less decided than it is at present.
At a time when the floors of the hall or
castle were strewn with rushes, and when
the great Earl of Northumberland considered

one clean table-cloth per month a sufficient
allowance for his upper servants' table, the
88 MEMOIR OF

accommodations of the cottage could hardly

have been more homely. And though the

lady of rank, when jolting in her cumbrous

coach without springs, might display more

dignity, she certainly could not enjoy more

ease than if she had been travelling in one
of her tenant's carts. In the words of the

Quarterly Review, "the want of every

kind of comfort within their houses leaves us

nothing to envy of the enjoyments of our
forefathers in those good old times, which
are the sad burthen of many ' an idle song,'
and the constant theme of repining patriots."

And when it is considered, on the other

hand, how favourable to the health and

habits of cleanliness amongst the poor is the

cheapness, resulting from machinery, of

various articles of clothing, the increase of

machinery cannot on the whole be regarded

as an evil. It  is,  indeed, true that recent
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  89

investigations have disclosed a fearful state
of society in some of our manufacturing dis
tricts, but we need only look at the factories
of Lowell, in the United States, to be con
vinced that demoralization is not a necessary
accompaniment of the Factory System. Had
our own manufacturers been less exclusively
devoted to the accumulation of wealth, and

had the British Government exerted itself

sooner to secure to the manufacturing popu
lation the advantages of education and of
restricted hours of labour, we might have
escaped much of the evil which is often, but
unjustly, attributed to the progress of me
chanical improvements.

   In 1786, Mr. Cartwright printed a new

edition of his poems. The following letter
from his old friend Mr. Griffiths, seems to
have concluded the literary correspondence
that had subsisted between them for several
90 MEMOIR OF

years. But though from this period their
correspondence ceased, their mutual regard

remained undiminished :--

" My dear Sir, --I am very much obliged

to you for the favour of your letter of the

8th instant, and for the further favour of

six copies of your book, three of which shall

be immediately disposed of according to

Iyour directions ; another propose to give

to Wm. Seward, Esq., F.R.S., a very inge

Inious, good man.  rejoice that you have

given me this proof of your not having yet

forgotten your old friend--a friend who

will always remember and love you.

  I" Your mill is now, hope, at work, and

working with success. It is kind of you to

                  which hope to do in
invite me to see  it,

                          I

August, after the publication of our appen

dix, the said appendix always occasioning
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  91

me a month of slavery in July --by doing

double, and more than double duty. Not

withstanding the opinion preconceived by

Ieven the best mechanics, cannot help feel

ing some apprehensions with regard to the

Igood going of the mill, and therefore

shall be solicitous for an early account of its

Iactual performance. By this time, sup
Ipose, a fair trial hath been made, and

shall be very much obliged to you for the

news of the result. Sincerely hoping that

the success hath been, or is likely to be,

fully answerable to your expectations,

           I" remain, dear Sir,

 " Your truly affectionate, humble servant,
                             " R. Griffiths.

   « Turnham Green, May 22nd, 1787.

   " Mrs. G. presents her very respectful

Icompliments, as doth my son George.

hope your brother, the worthy major, is
92 MEMOIR OF

Iwell; I do not forget that  have been

obliged to him."

   As early as the year 1786, some ideas
relative to an improvement in the steam-
engine had suggested themselves to Mr.
Cartwright's mind; and though it was not
until several years later that he took out
any patent for a steam-engine, the following
letter to a friend is introduced, as marking
the period when he first attended to the
subject, as well as illustrating his own scru
pulous delicacy with regard to the invasion

of other men's inventions :--

   I"Dear Sir, -- am infinitely obliged to

you for your attention in procuring me
admission to the Albion mill. You will be

I Isurprised when tell you that have at

 present an insuperable objection either to
        DR. CARTWRIGHT.                               93

seeing Bolton's steam-engine, or the still
more powerful one invented by Sadler of

Oxford, which is now in town, and which he

has promised to shew me. My reason                    I I is,

that am now making model of one that
I                    a
     I
have invented myself. I    wish to avoid

temptation either to borrow or steal. The

idea visited me morning or two ago, as
was under the hands of the hairdresser.
        a

                      it
immediately communicated to some philo

sophical friends, particularly my neighbour,
Mr. Gregory; none of them had the least

doubt of its practicability. From the short

conversation had with Sadler, his improve
ment consists principally in having double
        I

                                 is
                                                   a
cylinder, so that the steam condensed both

above and below the piston. My improve
ment consists in having neither cylinder,
piston, condenser, nor beam; nor, in short,

any species of mechanism.  When my
94 MEMOIR OF

model is finished, which will be in a day or

Itwo, you shall hear more of it.    shall

leave town in a few days; my next resi

dence, for one week, will be at Goadby, and

then at Doncaster.

    I" am, dear Sir, most truly yours,

                            " Edmund Cartwright.

" 67, Pall Mall, June 10th, 1786."

    Whether the model alluded to was com
pleted, or what were the motives for sus
pending at that time the prosecution of this
experiment, cannot now be ascertained.
Mr. Cartwright's first patent relative to the
steam-engine was taken out in 1797, of
which a description will be given hereafter.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  95

              CHAPTER III.it,

Mr. Cartwright, though he had accomplish

ed one great object of his wishes, in contriving
a loom that should be worked by machinery,
was not disposed to stop short in a career
that seemed to him so promising of success.
His next invention, a machine for combing
long wool, may be considered as even more
original than the former. In the instance
of the loom, he had a machine prepared to
his hands, that was already capable, in one
way, of performing the work required of
96 MEMOIR OF

and the merit of his discovery consisted in
applying a new power, in order to produce,
to a much greater extent, motion that had
hitherto been only produced by hand. But
between the very simple act of combing
wool by hand and the process of combing it
by means of a complicated machine, that
should perform the work of twenty men,
there seemed to have been no intermediate

gradation, no introduction, as it were, to a

more improved method, by any addition to
the instrument in common use, and which is
as inartificial as it might have been in the
days of Bishop Blaize.*

   It is not precisely known when Mr.

Cartwright first attempted a machine for
combing wool. His earliest patent relative
to that invention is dated 22nd August,

  * A bishop of Sebaste, in Asia Minor, in the third

century, and the patron saint of wool-combers.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  97

1789. The contrivance therein specified is
altogether different from that of his later
machine, and consisted of a cylinder armed
with rows of teeth, which is made to revolve
in such a manner as that its teeth may
catch and clear out the wool contained in
the teeth of the fixed and upright comb.
But this imperfect method was, not long
afterwards, superseded by the contrivance of
a circular horizontal comb-table, for which a

patent was obtained 27th April, 1790. In

this apparatus the teeth of the horizontal
table are set vertically, but with a slight
inclination towards the centre, and are sup
plied with wool by means of a circular
lasher. Motion is communicated to the
different parts of the machine in a very
ingenious manner ; but the complicated
nature of the circular lasher appears liable

to objection, and renders it far inferior in

                                        F
98 MEMOIR OF

effect, as well as in simplicity, to the subse
quent contrivance of the crank-lasher. For
this eminent improvement Mr. Cartwright
took out another patent, bearing date 11th
December, 1790, including also an altera
tion in the teeth of the comb-table, which
are here set horizontally, and pointing
towards the centre. This patent also con
tains the description of a simple and ingeni
ous apparatus for washing the wool, previ
ously to its being combed.

   His fourth patent, which is believed to
contain his final improvements relative to
this branch of manufacture, is dated 25th
May, 1792.

    Without entering into a minute detail of
the various parts that compose the combing-
machine, a short explanation of its leading
principles may enable the reader, with the
assistance of the annexed plate, to form a
                '

I
X.
}
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  99

clear idea of the mode in which the work is

performed. It must first be observed that

the wool undergoes a slight preparation by
means of a machine called the Preparer,
which, though more simple in its construc

tion, as it acts nearly on the same principles

as the finishing machine, need not be
described.

    The finishing machine consists of an hori

zontal circular frame A, or comb-table, of

perhaps five or six feet diameter, set with

teeth pointing to its own centre. In order
to feed or fill this circular table, and at the

same time to give the wool the first combing,
the machine is furnished with a member or

limb, called the crank-lasher, B, the action

of which, from the number and construction
of its joints, is somewhat analogous to the
action of the human hand and arm, when
the woolcomber in the common mode of

                     f2
100  MEMOIR OF

 operation lashes his wool on a comb fixed in
the wall.

    At the lower extremity of the crank-

lasher are a pair of feeding rollers, C,
which draw the wool from a tube with which

the lower branch of the lasher is furnished,
and regulate the delivery, whilst the lasher

lashes it into the principal comb. The

wool being thus deposited, undergoes a fur
ther operation or clearing, by means of a

smaller circular comb, D, which has a re

volving motion (produced by a pair of
cranks) in a plane at right angles, or nearly
so, to the plane of the principal comb, so as
that once in every revolution it strikes
through the wool of that comb, and clearing
it out, leaves it in a fit state to be drawn off

by the delivering rollers, E, These rollers

are so placed, that by the revolving motion
of the principal comb the wool with which
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  101

it is filled is successively brought within theiris,
bite, or grasp, and with the additional action

of a pair of callender rollers, F, is thus

formed into a long and continuous sliver.
    Thus the principal members of the comb-

ing-machine, as delineated in the plate, are,

A, the circular comb-table ; BB, the
crank-lashers ; CC, the feeding-rollers ; D,
the clearing-comb ; EE, the delivering-
rollers ; FF, the callender-rollers.

    The manner in which power is here

applied and communicated, so as to produce

at the same time not only several motions,
but motions of a totally different character,
is strikingly ingenious; and this machine,
including its subordinate parts and accom
paniments, which in this explanation are
omitted, may fairly be accounted one of the

most beautiful, as it unquestionably, one

of the most original, instances of mechanical
   102  MEMOIR OF

   contrivance.* The inventor having pos
   sessed only a slight knowledge of mechanical
   principles, and yet attaining, within a very
   short period of time, so extensive a mastery
   over their application, this instance of his
   ingenuity is the more remarkable.

      How far the principles suggested by Mr.
   Cartwright in this particular branch of

   manufacture have since been applied, might,
   by diligent inquiry, be ascertained ; but the
   features of the original invention, rather
   than its present applicability, form the
   object which we have chiefly in view. For
   more than fifty years the utmost ingenuity
   of man has been at work to make the most

     * A beautiful model of this. machine, belonging

   to Dr. Cartwright's grandson, George Cartwright,
   Esq., may be seen in the Adelaide Gallery of Art
   and Science, where it is deposited for the gratifica

   tion of the curious.

^
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  103

of every previous suggestion, and in new

modifications and fresh improvements the

original source is frequently lost sight of.
Yet although the inventor's name had been
forgotten, Mr. Cartwright's loom was known
for many years at Manchester by the name

of the " Doncaster patent loom ;" and even at

the present day the machine used at Leeds

for combing wool, is called " Big Ben," the
name originally applied to Mr. Cartwright's

machine by his workmen at Doncaster.

   In the space of seven years he had accom

plished two inventions, which promised to
lead to most extensive effects on the com

merce and manufactures of this country.
He had taken out no fewer than nine patents
within that period, and these not only for
improvements in the two principal arts of
weaving and wool-combing, but also includ
ing improvements in spinning, calendering
104  MEMOIR OF

linens, cutting of velvet pile, as well as an
entirely original machine for making ropes.*

    Mr. Cartwright having thus completed
his machine for combing wool, the novelty
and ingenuity of the contrivance attracted
the attention of men of science and distinc
tion, as well as of persons connected with
the manufacturing classes. Several of the
latter began now to consider this invention,
from its prodigious saving of labour, likely
to become no less advantageous than that of
the loom; and notwithstanding the vast
expenses he had incurred in taking out
patents both in England and Scotland, and
above all, in bringing his machinery to per
fection, there now seemed every rational
prospect of ample remuneration, from the
acknowledged excellence of the inventions.

Such, indeed, was the encouragement he

     * See Appendix (D).
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  105

had met with from those who were supposed
to be best acquainted with the state of our
manufactures at that time, that several of
his friends and immediate connexions were
induced to enter into speculations, of which
his new discoveries were to form the basis.*

   Full of hope and expectation, Mr. Cart-
wright continued to prosecute his mechanical

experiments; and although he became fre
quently annoyed by attempts to pirate his

   * At this period of hope and exultation Mr.

Cartwright indulged himself in giving an entertain

ment to his workmen. They amused themselves
with a procession, in honour of Bishop Blaize, the
tutelary patron of wool-combers ; and on this occa
sion, Matthew Charlton, one of the workmen of the

factory, composed a song, which being set to music
by Dr. Millar, became for several years a favourite
and popular air among the lower classes in the

town and neighbourhood of Doncaster. It is neces

sary to mention, that the combing-machine obtained

the name of " Big Ben," a noted boxer of the day,

                   f3
106  MEMOIR OF

inventions, lie considered such attempts as
acknowledgments of their importance, and
trusted that long before the expiration of
his patent rights, his own claim to originality-
would be sufficiently established to secure
the reward which he might reasonably ex
pect from them.

from the action of the crank-lasher, which was
thought to resemble the strokes of the pugilist ·--

             SONG. --New Bishop Blaize.

                                       i.
Come all ye master combers, and hear of new Big Ben,

Hell comb more wool in one day than fifty of your

        men,

With their hand-combs and comb-pots, and such old-

         fashion'd ways ;
There'll be no more occasion for old Bishop Blaize.

                                   ii.
Big Ben was made at Doncaster, that place of great

         renown,

And is a noble fellow, supported by the Crown:
 Whenever you shall see him he'll put you in amaze,
And make you praise the inventor, our new Bishop

        Blaize.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  107

    Towards the latter end of the year 1791,
a favourable prospect opened for the intro
duction of his loom into the cotton manufac
ture of Manchester. Messrs. Grimshaws,
of that place, had contracted with Mr.
Cartwright for the use of four hundred of
his looms, and built a mill calculated to

                                  in.
Our triumph then this day there's nothing shall pre

         vent,

For know, our great mechanic by Providence was

         sent

For the good of mankind, boys --atrophy, then, well

         raise

To our British Archimedes, our new Bishop Blaize.

                                      IV.

The hungry he gives bread to ; the naked, too, he
        clothes ;

May health and joy and riches, attend him as he goes:
Then fill your glasses high, boys 1 and give him three

        huzzas;
Here's our good and worthy master--our new Bishop

        Blaize !
   108  MEMOIR OF

   receive and work that number. Very soon
   after the building was completed, and when
   about four-and-twenty of the looms were set
   to work, the whole of the edifice was burnt
   to the ground; and from the threatening
   letters that had been received by the owners,
   and other indications of hostility shewn
   towards this novel establishment, no doubt
   was entertained at the time of its having

   been intentionally destroyed.
       For reasons best known to the parties

   most nearly concerned, the circumstances
   attending the destruction of this mill were
   not very diligently inquired into. The
   object of the perpetrators unquestionably

   was effected --no other manufacturer ven

   tured on repeating so hazardous an experi

   ment, and the consequences to Mr. Cart-
   wright were ruinous.

      His contract with Messrs. Grimshaws of

s
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  109

course became void, and as the hostility
manifested towards his weaving would in
all probability extend to his combing-

machine, it seemed hopeless for him any

further to prosecute his works at Doncaster,
which, for the reasons already stated, had
been carried on rather for the purpose of
proving the merit of his inventions, than
from any hope of profit or advantage arising
from the goods there manufactured.

   Mr. Cartwright's resources from his own
private fortune were beginning to be ex

hausted, and the severe check now given to
his hopes and prospects brought upon him,

as might be expected, demands which it

required the utmost of his available means
to satisfy. After an ineffectual struggle to
contend with the tide of prejudice that was
now turned against the adoption of his
machinery, and to meet the difficulties that
110  MEMOIR OF

were accumulating upon him, Mr. Cart-
wright found himself obliged to relinquish
his works at Doncaster. In the latter
part of the year 1793, he assigned over his
patent rights to his brothers, John and
Charles Cartwright, Esquires, in consequence
of the share they had taken in the concern,
and as being in circumstances better able to
contest the infringements to which, in spite
of the outcry raised against them, his inven
tions were continually subject.

   That Mr. Cartwright felt, and deeply
felt, the disappointment of his expectations,
cannot reasonably be doubted; but it was
much less for himself than on account of

others, whom his influence and example had
encouraged to enter into concerns for which
their previous habits and education rendered
them wholly unfit, but who might not equally
be able to follow his example in fortitudei
DK. CARTWRIGHT.  Ill

   With the self-confidence of conscious

ability, he still believed that time would

prove what he was himself convinced of--
the value of his inventions, -- and so far from

entertaining any feelings of envy towards

those more successful introducers of new

machinery, who were already realizing splen
did fortunes, his sanguine spirit, deriving

only encouragement from their example,

abated nothing of its elasticity and vigour.

    The following sonnet was composed by
Mr. Cartwright, at the close of this disas

trous year :--

                           SONNET.

With sails expanding to the gales of hope,
    My venturous bark pursued her leading starj

 Hers was a voyage of no common scope,

   A voyage of Discovery, distant far!

 To bright Invention's intellectual clime,

   In search of Useful Arts, 'twas mine to roam.

I reach'd the object of my views sublime,

    And richly freighted, bore my cargo home.
112  MEMOIR OF

My friends expectant fill the crowded strand;

  IBut ere gain the shore, what storms arise!

My vessel founders e'en in sight of land!
   And now a wreck upon the beach she lies !

IWith firm, unshaken mind that wreck see,
   " Nor think the doom of man should be reversed
             for me."
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  113

                CHAPTER IV.

It might perhaps have been expected that

Mr. Cartwright, after he had experienced
so discouraging a check in his mechanical
career, would naturally have returned to
that peaceful mode of life, and those literary
pursuits, in which he had passed the best
and happiest of his years ; but it was now
too late to retrace his steps and relinquish a
path still attractive, though beset with diffi
culties. He had, indeed, missed the sources
of worldly wealth, but he had opened on so
114  MEMOIR OP

rich a vein, in his own mind, of new and

ingenious perceptions, conducive, apparently,
to the benefit of his fellow-creatures, that
benevolence and philanthropy came in aid
to sanction the indulgence of his inclination,
and in continuing to pursue his mechanical
discoveries, he judged that he might not
unworthily employ the talent he was en
trusted with.

   In the summer of 1796, Mr. artwright

removed with his family* to London, as
being a situation more favourable than a
distant provincial town, for the cultivation
of scientific pursuits. He rented a small
house in Marylebone Fields, of Mr. James
Wyatt, the late celebrated architect, who
had given considerable encouragement to a

   * His first wife died in 1785, and in 1790 he
married Susannah, the youngest daughter of the
Rev. Dr. Kearney.
DR. CARTWKIGHT.  115

new invention by Mr. Cartwright, for which

he had taken out a patent the preceding

year. This was for an improvement in the
form of bricks, by means of which, an arch
might be supported on a wall of the usual
thickness, and consequently might be em
ployed with advantage in many cases where
the thickness of the support required to sus
tain an arch built in the common method is
an objection to its use. In order to ascer
tain the efficiency of this invention, an
arched room was built with these geometrical
bricks, in addition to the house Mr. Cart-
wright occupied. The height of the arch is
not now remembered, but being somewhat
flat, it gave no unpleasing appearance to the

apartment, which was used as a dining-room.

An untoward circumstance occurred in the
outset of this experiment, that would have

discouraged most men from proceeding
116  MEMOIR OF

further; but Mr. Cartwright never seemed
to lose sight of Lord Bacon's consolatory
reflection, "that no man ought to be dis

couraged if the experiments he puts in

practice answer not his expectation, for
what succeeds pleaseth more, but what suc
ceeds not, many times informs no less."
Owing to the negligence of the workmen,
in removing the centres before the work was
dry, and an error in the construction of the
wall, in no way referable to the principle of
the invention, the first trial had failed, but the
building being resumed, with the advantage
of experience, the plan was found completely
to answer, and Mr. Cartwright continued to
reside in the house to which the addition
above described was made, until October,
1801. When the Kegent's Park was laid
out, some years afterwards, it became neces
sary to pull down the house in question,
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  117

which stood very nearly on the site of the
present Coliseum. The building was found
to be so exceedingly compact and strong,

that it required more than ordinary labour

to destroy it.
    As this invention was well known to

architects and engineers, engaged in works
for which, to all appearance, it was peculiarly
calculated, and as the most eminent amongst
them did not at that time point out any
probable objection to its use, it seems extra
ordinary that in no instance, as far as is
known, save in the solitary one above
recorded, (and in which its entire success

had been unequivocally proved,) has it been

adopted ; even where strength and security
from fire were objects of such paramount
importance as to render the mere difference
of expense between the patent and the com
mon bricks a matter of very inferior con

sideration.
118  MEMOIR OF

   In the " Kepertory of Arts," edited by W.

H. Wyatt, vol. iii. p. 84, will be found a

full description of the geometrical bricks.

" It is obvious that arches on this principle,

having no lateral pressure, can neither

expand at the foot, nor spring at the crown,
therefore they will want no abutments, re
quiring only perpendicular walls to rest on;
and they will want no incumbent weight to

prevent their springing up --a circumstance

of great importance in building bridges.
Their greatest advantage is security against
fire."*

    The expense of making the geometrical
bricks, in consequence of the precision they
require, may seem an objection to their use
for common purposes. From a drawing
found amongst Mr. Cartwright's papers, he
appears to have had a plan for making them

* These bricks are described in the Appendix (E).
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  119

by machinery, which would greatly have
facilitated their construction, and contri
buted to their exactness ; and now that such
rapid advances are daily making in the

application of power, it is not too much to
expect (since the principle of the invention
seems unobjectionable) that a means may
be discovered of removing the only objection
to the use of these bricks, by lessening the
expense of making them.

   In October, 1797, Mr. Cartwright took
out a patent " for an incombustible substi

tute for certain materials commonly used in
constructing dwelling-houses." The inven
tion consisted in applying tiles made of fire
clay, instead of laths, reeds, or boards, in
making ceilings, partitions, and floors. The
tiles were made long enough to reach from
centre to centre of the spars or joists, to

which they were fastened by nails»or cramps
120  MEMOIR OF

driven through notches made in each end of
the tiles, the joints being closed by mortar
or cement. For floors, no further process
was required; but for walls and ceilings a
coat of plaster was added, which it was pro
posed to render more adhesive by means of
grooves on the surface of the tiles.

   It does not appear to what extent this

very simple invention was adopted in prac
tice, but there can be no doubt that a plan
is here suggested, the general use of which
would greatly diminish the frequency of

those dreadful conflagrations which render a
residence in large towns perilous both to
property and life.

    Another of his inventions, about the same
period, is described in the second volume of

the " Repertory of Arts." It is a method

for applying the treadwheel to the working
of cranes. There can be no doubt, that in
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  121

all cases where it is requisite to produce a

rotatory action by human labour, the tread-
wheel presents the simplest and most effectual
means of applying the power. The muscles
of the lower extremities being in the human
subject much more strongly developed than

those of the arms and thorax, it is evident

that a machine worked by means of the legs
must have much greater power than the
common winch-handle, which is worked by
the upper portion of the body only. More
over, the action of walking being one for
which the human frame is especially adapted,
the application of this action to mechanical
purposes is far less likely to be injurious to
the health than any more constrained and

artificial motion. In the plan before us, the

treadwheel communicates the motion to the
windlass of the crane, not by cogs, but by a
worm or screw upon its own axis, which

                                                 G
122  MEMOIR OF

obviates all risk of the wheel running back,
in consequence of the weight overcoming the

power of the man who works it. At the

other end of the axis of the treadwheel is a

winch, and the weight having been raised,
the treadwheel is disconnected by means of
a coupling-box, and the weight is then low
ered by turning the winch in an opposite
direction.

   It has been already stated that Mr. Cart-

wright had entertained some ideas relative
to improvements in the steam-engine, as
early as the year 1786. But it is not
known whether the scheme he then formed
was ever attempted in practice. His first
patent for a steam-engine was obtained in

1797.

   A description of this engine, accompanied

with a beautiful engraving, forms the first

number of that excellent work, the " Philoso
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  123

phical Magazine," edited by the late Mr.
Tilloch, and first published in June, 1798;
and a further account of this invention is
introduced in the "Descriptive History of
the Steam-engine," by Mr. Stewart, who
bears a most liberal testimony to its inge
nuity. An extract from the former of these
works will explain the principles upon which
Mr. Cartwright proposed to remedy the
defects to which the most improved engine
was subject. " These defects, as every one
knows, are an imperfect vacuum, much fric
tion, and complicated construction of parts ;
liable, without great care and attention, to

be frequently out of order. It is to these

points Mr. Cartwright has immediately, and

we may add, successfully, directed his atten

tion. His first object seems to have been to

obtain, as nearly as may be, an absolute
vacuum ; which, in consequence of the elas-

                         g2
124  MEMOIR OF

  tic vapour that separates from water injected
 in the usual mode of condensation, no one in
 the least conversant with the philosophy of
 the steam-engine need he told is impossible.
 The condensation in his engine is performed
 by the application of cold to the external
 surface of the vessel containing the steam.
 Mr. Cartwright is not, however, the first
 who tried this method; the same has been
 attempted by several, but with so little suc
 cess, that one of our first engineers in this

line has been heard to give it as his opinion,

that were a pipe to be laid across the
 Thames, the condensation would not be
quick enough to work a steam-engine with
its full effect. The manner in which Mr.
Cartwright manages this business is by ad
mitting the steam between two metal cylin
ders, lying one within the other, and having
cold water flowing through the inner one,
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  125

and inclosing the outer one. By these
means a very thin body of steam is exposed
to the greatest possible surface. But this

is not all; --by means of a valve in the pis

ton there is a constant communication at all

times between the condenser and the cylin

der, either above or below the piston, so that,
whether it ascends or descends, the conden

sation is always taking place.
   To reduce the friction of the piston, which,

when fresh packed in the common way, lays
a very heavy load upon the engine, Mr.
Cartwright makes his solely of metal, and
expansive. There is a further advantage in
this method, from the saving of time and
expense in the packing, and from the piston

fixing more accurately, if possible, the more

it is worked.
    Mr. Cartwright has been equally atten

tive in simplifying all the other parts of the
126  MEMOIR OF

engine --his engine having only two valves ;

and those are as nearly self-acting as may be.

   But what will probably be esteemed one
of the most important circumstances attend
ing these improvements, is the opportunity
they afford of substituting ardent spirit,
either wholly or in part, in the place of
water, for working the engine. For as the
fluid with which it is worked is made to cir
culate through the engine without mixture
or diminution, the using alcohol, after the
first supply, can be attended with little or

no expense; on the contrary, the advan

tage will be great, probably equal to the
saving of half the fuel. When, indeed, the
engine is applied, as Mr. Cartwright occa

sionally purposes, both as a mechanical
power and as a still at the same time, the

whole fuel will be saved. A further advan

tage of this invention is its applicability to
DR. CART WRIGHT.  127

purposes requiring only a small power, and
for which any other engine would be too

complicated and expensive." -- See "Phil.

Mag.," June, 1798. Mr. Stewart observes,
that the details of this engine " are con
structed with uncommon ingenuity, and that

the whole apparatus may be considered more
simple and efficient than any other combina
tion which had been proposed of the parts
of the condensing engine." He concludes a

very clear and interesting explanation of its

construction, by further observing, " that

the machine, from its refined simplicity,
appears excellently adapted as a first mover

on a small scale. It has never, however,

had a fair trial. The objections which were

urged against the condensing vessels, at the
time of the invention, have always appeared
to us more specious than solid. To the

great merit in the arrangement and simpli-
128  MEMOIR OF

fication of parts shewn in this engine, must
be added one of immense importance to

engines on every construction --the metallic

piston. Mr. Cartwright constructed his of
two plates, between which were placed de
tached pieces of metal ; instead of the usual
packing, these pieces were acted upon by a
spring, so as always to be kept equally tight,
whatever might be the wear of the piston.
The manner of connecting the piston-rod
and procuring a rotatory motion is a beauti

ful specimen of mechanical invention." --

 Stewart, p. 157.
    The following references to the plate, re

presenting a section of the steam-engine, will

enable the reader to understand the method

by which the condensation is performed, as
well as the extraordinarily ingenious contri
vance of the metallic piston, with its springs.

A, the cylinder ; B, the piston ; /, the pipe
            DR. CARTWRIGHT.  129

which conducts the steam to C, the con

denser, being a double cylinder, between

which the steam passes into the pump D,

that serves for returning the condensed fluid

back into the boiler; E, the air-box, with

its valve.

The pipe from the pump, through which

the condensed fluid is returned into the

boiler, passes through the air-box. The air,

or elastic vapour, that may be mixed with the

fluid, rises in the box till the ball which keeps

the valve shut falls, and suffers it to escape.

F, the steam-valve ; G, the piston-valve.

BWhen the piston  reaches the bottom of

the cylinder A, the tail or spindle of the

valve G being pressed upwards, opens the

valve and forms a communication between

the upper side of the piston and the con

Fdenser ; at the same moment the valve is

pressed into its seat by the descent of the

            G3
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                         131

cross-arm on the piston, which prevents the

further admission of steam from the boiler,

thus allowing the piston to be drawn up to

the top of the cylinder by the momentum of

Hthe fly-wheel 0;  H, two cranks, upon

whose axles are two equal wheels working in

each other, for the purpose of giving a rec

tilinear direction to the piston-rod ; M, the

box that contains the condensed water.

K, plan of the piston, shewing the metal

rings, which by the springs are forced out

wardly against the inside of the cylinder,

so that the piston can adapt itself to any

inequality that may arise.

   In the same patent that Mr. Cartwright

obtained for the above engine he also pro

posed a modification of the rotatory engine,

described by Mr. Watt in 1782.          See

" Repertory of Arts," vol. x. p. 7.

By his removal to the metropolis, Mr.
132  MEMOIR OF

Cartwright enlarged the sphere of his ac
quaintance amongst men of ingenuity and
science; and his house again became the
resort of projectors of various merits and
pretensions. His own manners were pecu
liarly calculated to make his society coveted
where his talents were admired. No man
who knew so much was so little pertinacious
in' conversation ; he had a thorough contempt
for arrogance; and though satire was a
weapon he could occasionally wield with no
small effect, he was conscientiously forbear
ing in the use of it : but the quality that of
all others recommended him to that descrip
tion of persons who principally sought his
society, was his remarkable openness, and
freedom from jealousy towards rival and

contemporary projectors.
    Amongst other ingenious characters who

frequented Mr. Cartwright's house, may be
DE. CAKTWRIGHT.  133

noticed one who was then deeply engaged

in pursuits similar to his own, but whose
claims to originality of invention have not
been very willingly admitted on this side of
the Atlantic. This person was Robert Ful
ton, well known in America as being the
first engineer who navigated a steam-boat
in that country, and not altogether unknown
in Europe for his experiments in submarine
navigation. He was a native of New Jer
sey, in the United States, and had come to
England with the intention of studying
painting under his countryman, West.
Having abandoned painting as a profession,
he applied himself to civil engineering, and
in that line of business had been noticed by
Earl Stanhope, with whom he had had com*

munication on the practicability of moving

vessels by steam, as early as the year 1796.

At this time, also, navigating by steam was
131  MEMOIR OF

itone of Mr. Cartwright's favourite projects,
and he conceived that his newly invented
                asteam-engine might be made applicable to
                                        a
                                                       athat purpose. It may appear superfluous,

                                                                                 ;where so much originality of invention can
be substantiated, to allude to any claims
                                                                               a is,
that may be considered doubtful; it
however, well known that Mr. Cartwright

did construct the model of boat, which
being wound up like clock, moved on the
water, so as to prove the experiment in
manner satisfactory to the inventor though,
as this little model was afterwards given
away as toy, and has long been destroyed,
there are no means of ascertaining how the
machinery was adjusted, or what resemblance

    might bear to the method since adopted
in the working of steam-boats.

    The coincidence of their respective views,
produced, instead of rivalship, intimacy and
   DR. CARTWRIGHT.                          135

friendship between the two projectors, and
Mr. Fulton's vivacity of character and

original way of thinking rendered him a
welcome guest at Mr. Cartwright's house.

The practicability of steam navigation, with

the most feasible mode of effecting         it,  be

came frequent subject of discourse. The
of

         a
                                         a
writer of these memoirs has now to regret,

amongst many other neglected opportunities

acquiring knowledge, that, from the care

lessness of youth, such degree of attention

was not given at the time to these discus

sions as might have thrown considerable

light upon subject, since become of such
a

universal interest. Who could then con

template, when Mr. Fulton was drawing the
plans of his paddle-wheels, and Mr. Cart-

wright contriving how his steam-engine

should act upon them, that speculations

apparently so chimerical should have been
136  MEMOIR OF

realized to their present wonderful extent!

It is not assumed that Mr. Fulton, even

with Mr. Cartwright's assistance, had at
that time brought his plan of a steam-boat
to any great degree of maturity ; but it is
believed that neither of these gentlemen
were then aware of any other person having
advanced towards steam navigation as far as
themselves. Nor will this appear improba
ble, when it is considered that it was then a

mere project, a chimera entertained only by
a few projectors, who might be carrying on
their respective schemes in distant parts of
the kingdom, without any knowledge of each
other's contrivances, although in aiming at
the same project, and through the same
means, they might hit upon the same mode
of applying those means. An instance of
this kind of coincidence is alluded to by
Mr. Fulton, in his Treatise on Canal Navi-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  137

gation, in which he candidly acknowledges

having been anticipated in a contrivance

that he had conceived to be original ; but a

more striking instance of a revived inven

tion, possessing all the merit of originality,

is that of Mr. Watt, who cannot be said to

owe the great improvement that rendered

his steam-engine so eminently applicable to

the purposes of machinery, to Mr. Jonathan

Hulls, although Mr. Hulls had suggested

Ifthe same idea many years before.*  a

   * " Although Mr. Jonathan Hulls did not originate
any novelty in the construction of the atmospheric
engine, he is entitled to the honourable notice of
having proposed the application of paddle-wheels

moved by a steam-engine, to propel ships, instead of

wind and sails. In this scheme it was necessary to

convert the alternate rectilineal motion of a piston-rod

into a continuous rotatory one, and which he ingeni
ously suggested might be accomplished by means of
a crank. This is now, with justice, considered to
138               MEMOIR OF

person hit upon an invention that he never

     if,
         by of,

           it
              if is

                                   a

                                                               ;

                                                         a

                                            if
                                                  it

                                                                    a
heard         original in him and               be

the result of patient study, or habit of

observation, he may be allowed to be

meritorious,      not fortunate inventor;

but his energy and spirit of enterprise,

he succeed in introducing into practice

what others, perhaps, had only contemplated

in theory, he entitled to additional credit,is

without disparaging that of his predecessors.
   In 1797, Mr. Fulton went to France, at

be that invention which introduced the steam-engine

as first mover of every variety
a                                               machinery.
                                 a

                                            of
Hulls was unable to interest the public in his pro

jects; and his mode of applying the crank was so

completely forgotten, that at its revival, about forty

years after this period, patent was obtained for the

invention, and the merit of the application was also

claimed by the celebrated Mr. Watt, evidently with
out any knowledge of Hull's suggestion." -- Stewart,

Hist. Steam-Engine, page 8.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                       139

that period under the government of the

Directory, and did not return to England

until the latter end of 1802, or beginning
of 1803, having passed a portion of the
intervening time in America. From his

correspondence with Mr. Cartwright, such

passages may be selected as appear to have

reference to those mechanical subjects on

which they were both deeply engaged.  He

writes from Paris, July, 1797: --

   " After being detained at Calais three

Iweeks, waiting for a passport, made a cir

cuit of about three hundred miles ; and on

Iarriving at Paris, found the Directory had

given a special order for my passport, which

was sent to Calais after my departure ; thus
there is every symptom of my remaining
here in peace, although the Americans are

by no means well received or suffered to rest
in quiet.
140               MEMOIR OF

  I" The country through which travelled

is like a continued field, in excellent cultiva

tion, and all the districts of France are said

to be in an equally good state ; thus plenty

Iwill relieve the burthens of war. But what

do say of war f In Paris One would

suppose they had never heard of for all

   gay and joyous. As to business, cannot
is

                              ;

                  I
                                I it,
yet say much but have reason to believe
there will be good encouragement to men of
genius, and improvement will be rapid on

the termination of the war. Please to let

me know the state of your ideas relative to

the steam-boat, &c.

                      "E. Fulton."

                          "Paris, Sept. 20th, 1797.

" My dear Sir, -- have not had an oppor
                  II
tunity of answering your letter of the 20th

August till now.     am much pleased with
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                            141

your mode of making houses fire-proof, and

should be happy to see it extended to

IAmerica; but do not think that Mr.

* * * * or * * * * -would answer your

purpose; because whoever takes up such

subjects must be active, and have the busi

Iness at heart. On these points have men

tioned to you, that providing me with

Idescriptions and powers, shall be happy to

do my best for you in America; but if you

could sell the invention for a reasonable sum,

I should think it advisable. My idea of

many of those things, which may be con

sidered as only the overflowings of your

mind, is to convert them into cash, and

adhere firmly, even without partners, to

some of your more important objects, such

as the steam-engine, boat moving by steam,

Ior cordelier.  have a great objection to

I Ipartners.
never would have but one if

could help and that should be wife.''
it,

                                        a
142             MEMOIR OF

                             " Paris, Nov. 28th, 1797.

I" have received yours of the 12th

instant, and am happy to hear of the success

of your steam-engine, and other improve

Iments, for the extension of which will en
Ideavour to make an arrangement when

have the pleasure of seeing you. In this

country there are but few engines, and the

principal are at the collieries, near Valen

Iciennes.  am well acquainted with the

proprietor, who informs me there is little

hope of introducing such improvements into

France till the termination of the war ; but

Iwhen peace returns, conceive every encou

ragement will be given to the arts, and

France will rise, like a phoenix, from the

ashes of war."

                                  "Paris, Feb. 16th, 1798.

  " Dear Sir, -- I have received yours of

December 11th, at which time you could
DR. CARTWRIGHT,  143

not have received my last letter, which was

dated December 8th. You speak of ex

Ipecting my return, but that, fear, is very

doubtful, in consequence of the delays at the

Ipatent-office, the approaching period when

must necessarily return to America, and the

difficulty of obtaining a passport from hence

to England. Should these causes prevent

me from again seeing your family, in whose

Ishort acquaintance took much delight, and

whose taste for science nattered me with the

prospect of much pleasure on my return;

Iyet hope we shall keep up the acquaint

ance which the art of writing may preserve ;

Iand believe me, shall ever feel interested

in the progress of science or fortune in your

Ifamily. Hitherto have been like a wan
Iderer in life --but in America hope to

become reasonably stationary, where, assem

Ibling a few friends around me, may pursue
144  MEMOIR OP

my plans of public improvement with patient

Iindustry. Works of magnitude, find, can

not be hurried. It would give me much

pleasure to make the produce of your mind

productive to you. You will, therefore,

consider what part of your inventions I may
Ibe intrusted with. The steam-engine,

hope, may be made useful in cutting canals,

and moving boats, so that it will be directly

Iin my line of business. By the bye, have

just proved an experiment on moving boats

with a fly of four parts, similar to that of a

smoke-jack; thus,

I find this apply the power to great advan

tage, and it is extremely simple.* The

  * It is very interesting to remark, that in this,

the earliest of Mr. Fulton's schemes for steam navi
DR. CARTWRTGHT.                145

Ipatent law is now altering, but fear the

price will not be reduced, yet the payments

will, perhaps, be made easy, by being 20/.

per year for three years. My small canals

Iare making many friends ; which business

shall leave under the guidance of a company.

The celebrated Montgolfier has just made a

great discovery in hydraulics ; it is a means

of raising water from the beds of rivers by

the simple movement of the stream, without

Ieither pump or wheel.  know him well,

and have seen his model frequently at work.

It is forty feet high, and consisting of only

Itwo tubes, extremely simple.  also have

been contriving a curious machine for mend

ing the system of politics, and applying

gation, we see the principle of the " Archimedes

screw," which, though for many years superseded by
the " paddle-wheel," is now likely to come into uni
versal use.

                                       H
146            MEMOIR OF

manual labour to advantage. Of these two

Iinventions will send you sketches before

my departure.  BeHeve me, &c.,

                        "Robt. Fulton."

"My  dear           "Paris, June 20th, 1798.

               Sir, -- Still I continue in

France, and thus take the opportunity of

writing to you by my friend, Mr. Gilpin,

who will convey to America anything you

have to communicate to me on mechanical

Isubjects. In a long letter wrote to you on
Imechanics, on March 5th, mentioned some

ideas of a machine for making ropes, the

model of which is now finished, capable of

making a rope one inch diameter. By Mr.

IG. send you a piece of rope fabricated on

the engine, by which you may judge of its

Istate of perfection. But still conceive you

have superior ideas on the movement of such
               DR. CARTWRIGHT.             147

an engine, particularly the means of giving
equal tension to all the strands.

  " I shall hope for a very particular letter

on mechanics when Mr. G. arrives in

America, with sketches, if not models,

1st, steam-engine; 2nd, steam-hoat, 3rd,

cordelier, &c. &c."
                                           ·
   At this time Mr. Fulton was engaged in     :

prosecuting his experiments in submarine                   of,
navigation; but that he also pursued his
projects of moving boats by steam appears
by the following letters to Mr. Cartwright,
whose recent invention seemed peculiarly

applicable to Mr. Fulton's purpose --

                          "Paris, 10th March, 1802.

" My good Friend, --Be so kind as to let

me know how you have succeeded in your

steam-engine.  To what state of perfection

                   h2
148  MEMOIR OF

have you brought it? What will one of a

six-horse power, making a three or four foot

stroke, cost? How much will it weigh?
How much space will it require when ren

dered as compact as possible ? What weight

and value of coals will it consume per hour?

Iand how soon can it be made ?  think you

once mentioned to me your intention to use

spirits of wine, and that you could obtain

a power of at least 301bs. to the square inch.

Have you succeeded in these great objects?

The object of these inquiries is to make part

of an examination on the possibility of

moving boats of about six or seven tons by

Isteam-engine, and your engine conceive

best calculated for such a work ; particularly

as the condenser may always have the ad

vantage of cold water without adding much

to the weight of the boat ; and having the

advantage of cold-water may enable you to
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  149

work with ardent spirits, and produce the
desired elasticity of steam with one-half the

heat, --hence, in calculating the weight of

the whole apparatus, the weight of the con

densing water will be trifling, it is therefore
the weight of the engine and the fluid in

the boiler which are to be calculated. For

Ithis object believe the engine should be

double, with the steam acting on the top and
bottom of the piston, or in two cylinders, the

one ascending while the other descends.

For the particular case, where such a boat is

Iwanted, believe it is of more importance to

have a light and compact engine, than to have
too much regard to the economy of fuel, un
less the additional weight of the fuel to go

twenty miles would be more than the addi
tional weight of the engine to economize the
heat. To gain power in a small space, how
would it answer to make the boiler suffi-
150              MEMOIB OF

ciently strong to heat the steam to two

atmospheres, or 30 pounds to the square

inch ?--thus, a cylinder of six inches would

give a purchase of 300 pounds; that        is is,

900 pounds' constant purchase, which

about the sum of my demand, --as for exam

ple, three pounds will draw piece of timber
                          a
                               a
20 feet long, which presents butt-end of

one foot square, at the speed of

                 76 42 1  mile per hour.

     12 pounds, ditto - ditto.

      48 ,,               ditto - ditto.
      96 ,,               ditto - ditto.
     120 ,,               ditto - ditto.

Now, supposing my boat to be 40 feet long

and five feet wide --boat, passengers, and
engine, weighing six tons-- will present
                          it              a

front of about six feet resistance, or 720a

pounds' purchase, to run such boat seven

miles per hour.
DE. CARTWRIGHT.                151

Suppose the boat to weigh  2 tons,

30 passengers, with their baggage 3 ,,

                           ~5

one ton is left for the engine and machinery.
From this calculation you will be able to

judge what can be done by your invention ;

Iand if by your means can perfect my plan,
I have got a good opportunity of rendering

your engine productive to you, and it will

give me pleasure to do so. You will be so

good as write to me as soon as possible, an
swering, in a particular manner, the ques
tions stated, with any observations you think
proper and will be so good as to make on my

proposed attempt.

                   " Robt. Fulton."

   Mr. Cartwright's reply to the above in

quiries was, doubtless, given under a strong
impression of the value of his invention, and
152  MEMOIR OF

produced the following letter from his san

guine correspondent :--

                               "Paris, 28th March, 1802.

   " My dear Sir, -- It is with great pleasure

I have received your flattering account of

your steam-engine; and although attach

ment to you makes me believe everything
you say, yet such belief is merely a work of

Ifaith, for cannot see the reason why you

have 13^ pounds' purchase to the square

inch. Is this in consequence of the friction
taken off the piston by your circles ?* How
have you found that mode to answer? Is
it that, by your mode of condensing, the
water becomes deprived of its air, and that

the steam may be heated four, five, or more

Ifpounds per inch above the atmosphere?

   * The metallic rings -- an invention of acknow

ledged ingenuity and usefulness. (See page 131,
supra.)
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  153

the engine can be made so light as you men

tion, and give only ten pounds to the square

inch, it will answer my purpose ; but it
must be a double engine, making thirty

double strokes, or sixty single strokes, per
minute, of three feet each; that is to say,

Ithree feet per second. As can afford to

give five feet by six for the engine, it will
not be necessary to place the cylinder in the

boiler. If it stands outside of the boiler,

repairs can be made with more ease; but

Iwhen we have decided on the engine, will
Igive a sketch of the mode in which propose

it should stand, to give movement to the
machinery which is to drive the boat.
for my case, you propose to condense with

out injection, the condensing vessel may be

   long cylinder or tube, with another tube
through its centre, through which current
of water will pass with velocity equal to
a
                                    H
                                             3

                                             a
                                                               a

                                                           If,
154  MEMOIR OF

the speed of the boat, and thus carry off the

Icaloric very quick.  do not see how the

                            fly

                                    a
engine, water in the boiler, and included,

can weigh so little as ton, and, say, half.is ais

What will be the weight and diameter of the

fly? Another important consideration --

it  permitted to send such engines out of the

country? the design to America. The
smoke-jack flyers will not answer for quick
                            a

movement. Reduced to two arms, thus,

    answers admirably for my plunging-boat,
it
                   it

                                  a
                                   is

                                 I
                                       I
where the velocity    not more than two

miles per hour, between two waters, and

where oars cannot be used.  was so

pleased with in that experiment, that

last summer built pinish* thirty-six feet

long and five feet wide, extremely light, and

     * Commonly written pinnace. --Ed.
        DR. CAKTWKIGHT.             155

Iof the best workmanship.  placed in her

quadruple cranks, from bow to stern, thus,

        J2

to each of which were six men, total twenty-

four of the best seamen of the fleet. The

multiplication from the crank to the flyers

was at first fourteen to one ; the flyers, four

feet diameter; angle, thirty degrees. We

could not make more than four miles per

Ihour.  reduced the multiplication to

seven for one. We went about four miles,

Ibut with less fatigue to the men.  changed

the diameter of the flyers from four down to

two feet, and the angle from forty down

gradually, five degrees at a time, to fifteen

degrees. Still our speed was never more

than about four miles per hour. When the

boat gains a certain velocity, the water run-
156  MEMOIK OF

ning quick past the flyers, they lose their

purchase; and multiplying them to a velo

city so as to overtake the boat, or strike the

running water sufficiently quick, causes a

friction, which consumes much of the power.

IHowever, have found an excellent mode of

taking my purchase on the water in all pos

sible velocities, and where the whole power

will be applied to advantage. The question

now is only to find the best steam-engine to

Iput it in movement ; and sincerely hope it
Iwill be yours. For political reasons, have

never yet confided to but one person the

combination of my plunging-boat, and com

mitted the whole to drawing and explana

tions, in case of any accident happening to

me ; however, it will be satisfactory to you

to know that the experiments have been

Ivery successful.  was very fortunate in

surmounting some great difficulties ; and
DR. CART WRIGHT.  157

navigating under water is now easy to be
performed, and without risk."

   In the " Annual Register" for 1802, is an
account of Mr. Fulton's diving-boat, taken

from the relation of citizen St. Aubin, a man

of letters at Paris, and member of the Tri

bunate, which confirms the inventor's own
statement of the success of his experiment.

I" have," says Monsieur St. Aubin, "just

been to inspect the plan and section of a
nautilus, or diving-boat, invented by Mr.
Fulton, similar to that with which he lately
made his curious and interesting experiment
at Havre and Brest. The diving-boat, in
the construction of which he' is now em
ployed, will be capacious enough to contain
eight men, and provision enough for twenty
days, and will be of sufficient strength and
power to enable him to plunge one hundred
158  MEMOIR OF

feet under water, if necessary. He has con

structed a reservoir for air, which will enable

eight men to remain under water for eight

hours. When the boat is above water, it

has two sails, and looks just like a common
boat. When she is to dive, the mast and

sails are struck. In making his experiment
at Havre, Mr. Fulton not only remained a

whole hour under water, with three of his
companions, but kept his boat parallel to
the horizon at any given depth. He proved
that the compass points as correctly under
water as on the surface; and that, while

under water, the boat made way at the rate
of half a league an hour, by means con

structed for that purpose." --Vol. xliv.

    Whatever might be the ingenuity of the
contrivance, or merit when effected, of the
bateau plongeur, it is certain that Earl
Stanhope, no incompetent judge of mecha-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  159

nical and scientific subjects, entertained a
formidable idea of its efficiency, and earnestly
endeavoured to impress upon the English
government a sense of the danger that might
arise to this country, in consequence of the
French nation having taken the American,

Mr. Fulton, under their protection. In the
following year (1803) his lordship again
referred to Mr. Fulton's contrivance for

blowing-up ships under water, and stated in
the House of Lords that he had himself given

a plan to the Admiralty, for preventing the
effect of an invention, which he considered
of so formidable a nature.

   It is evident that the art of navigating

under water might convey an awful power
into the hands of any one who possessed it 5
and consequently the British ministry did

not think it unworthy of inquiry how far
Mr. Fulton's pretension to success, in so for-
160  MEMOIR OF

 midable an art, was well founded or not.

 Mr. Cartwright, who was probably in full
 possession of Mr. Fulton's secret, and no less
 impressed than Earl Stanhope with the no
 tion of its dangerous extent, was consulted
 in this inquiry. On the renewal of the war,
 Mr. Fulton's neutrality, at least, was con
sidered worth the purchase ; and Mr. Cart-
 wright was appointed one of the arbitrators
to settle the terms upon which Mr. Fulton
consented to the suppression of his secret.
 The terms of the award were probably satis
factory to Mr. Fulton. He returned to
America not long after the arrangement
alluded to, and in the following summer
(1807) he had the satisfaction of seeing
accomplished his long-cherished and favour
ite project of launching a steam-boat in his
native country. As Mr. Fulton's name is
introduced into this memoir solely with a
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  161

reference to his intimacy with Mr. Cart-
wright, it is not necessary to enter more at
length into the question of the extent to
which he might, or might not, have availed

himself of the inventions of others. It is

certain that he owed much to his own inge
nuity for the success that attended his first
experiment at New York; and still more to
that activity of mind and spirit of enter
prise, which enabled him so to establish
steam navigation in America, that its obvi
ous advantages there should have led to its
extended adoption, not only in this country,
but in every part of the civilized world.

    This ingenious and enterprising man died
at New York, in the year 1815, in the
forty-ninth year of his age.
162  MEMOIR OF

                 CHAPTEK V.

In November, 1798, Mr. Cartwright became
a member of the " Society for the Encourage

ment of Arts, Manufactures, &c. ;" and in
October of the following year, he was re
commended by his friends to offer himself as
a candidate for the situation of secretary to
the society, recently become vacant by the
death of Mr. Samuel Moore. The candi
date being on this occasion required to pre
sent a memorial of his pretensions, Mr.
Cartwright, on the 18th December, read
DR. CAETWEIGHT.  163

before the society an address, from which

the following extracts are taken :--

    " The qualifications more particularly

looked for in the person who is to fill the

important office of secretary to this society,

Iare, understand, practical knowledge and

experience in those matters which are its

leading objects. These are, chemistry, the

polite arts, agriculture, manufactures, and

mechanics. It is expected, also, that he

should know something of the modern lan

Iguages. The only living languages ever

was acquainted with, are the French and

Italian, and though disuse for a long series

of years has nearly obliterated them from

Imy recollection, do not feel, however, as if
I should have much difficulty in recovering
Ithem, and, in the meantime, should take

care that the society should experience no
inconvenience on that account. Of che-
164  MEMOIR OF

Imistry, though am not ignorant of its

elementary principles, my knowledge is

much too limited to speak of it with any
degree of confidence. In this department,

Itherefore, am free to confess you will not

find my acquirements of that service to you

I could wish, and yet I flatter myself you

will not find them altogether useless. That

they have not been altogether useless to the

Iworld, need only appeal to that most in

valuable discovery --the method of adminis

tering, in the form of yeast, the carbonic
acid gas ; a discovery which, not only in this
island, but in various parts of the globe,

has already, in innumerable instances, proved

 an inestimable benefit to the human race.

IYou will perceive am alluding to the almost

 invariable success with which this remedy

 has been administered in cases of putrid

 fever, and as a specific in that cruel disease,
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  165

the sea scurvy. Those only who have ex
perienced that sublimest of enjoyments, the
pleasure of benefiting mankind, can appre

Iciate the satisfaction have had in its dis

covery."

   " But of all the objects which engage the

attention of this society, the principal, and,
without dispute, the most important, is
agriculture; an art which, at the present

awful period, more, perhaps, than at any
former one, requires the exertions of every

enlightened mind to bring it to its highest

stage of practical perfection. That much is

to be done, it is unnecessary to observe, for
till such time as every field shall be a gar

den, agriculture has certainly not arrived at
its acme. That this is no ideal point of
improvement to look forward to, we need
only advert to the state of this art amongst
the Chinese, and the manner in which they
166  MEMOIR OF

are at once compelled and enabled to prac

tise it by an overflowing population. With
us, the great mass of population being

diverted into other channels, other means
are to be resorted to. The combined ener

gies of various arts must be employed;
chemistry must lend her inexhaustible

stores -- mechanics, her hundred arms. The

one, by calling into action the latent
principles of nature, gives to vegetation
renewed life and increase of fertility; the
other, by furnishing man with multiplied
ability, giving to a pigmy the powers of a
giant. But no combination of science in
agriculture will avail without practical
knowledge; and in no art, so indispensable
as this, is practical knowledge required from
your secretary. On every other subject,
information or assistance, in a city like this,
may be met with in every street, and at
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  167

every hour ; for here is the resort of genius
and talents in every department of science,
not only because they are here most encou
raged, but because they are here also most
conveniently cultivated. With agriculture

and its professors it is otherwise. Agricul

ture is not to be practised in cities, nor has
a city life allurements for a mind devoted
to its pursuits. On this subject, therefore,
more frequently than on any other, must
your secretary depend on the stores and
resources of his own mind. These stores

are not to be collected from books or theory,
nor from the speculative opinions of artists,
mechanics, chemists, or philosophers; they
must be the result of real practice and re
peated observation, under different circum
stances, and at different seasons. On this

Iground feel to tread with confidence ; for

during nearly thirty years of my past life
168  MEMOIR OF

my constant residence has been in the coun

try, and for a considerable part of that time

those hours which were not occupied by the

duties of my profession, or devoted to lite

rary pursuits, were chiefly employed in the

practice and study of agriculture. I may

truly affirm there are few experiments in

that most useful and interesting pursuit

which I have not either tried myself, or

witnessed the trial of by others.
   " Respecting manufactures and practical

mechanics, it will be no boast in me to say,

--what, indeed, so many here present can
probably confirm, --that few men have had

greater experience than myself ; still fewer;

I should hope, have purchased that expe

rience at so dear a rate. The manufactures

I am most immediately acquainted with, are

those extensive ones of cotton and wool;

Ievery process of which  am acquainted
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  169

with, from the raw state of the article till

 perfected in the loom.

    " There are several other manufactures,
also, of which you will not find me ignorant.

   I" That may not detain you too long by

reciting all the different mechanical inven

Itions of magnitude and importance that
Ihave at various times brought forward,

shall enumerate only three ; and these three,
as you will perceive, are in departments of

invention totally distinct from each other.

These are, the method of combing wool by

machinery ; the geometrical principle of con

structing arches, so as to have no lateral

Ipressure ; and the late improvements have

made in the steam-engine. By that single

invention of combing wool by machinery, the
manufacturers are at this moment saving

at least 40,000/. a year, and in a short
space of time will annually save between

                                    I
170  MEMOIR OF

one and two millions. By the geometrical

principle of constructing arches, so as to

have no lateral pressure, buildings may be

erected at as little expense as they now are,
and be perfectly secure from fire. And by my

Iimprovement on the steam-engine, have so

added to its power, and reduced its expense,
that it may not only be employed in manu

factures more extensively than it has hitherto

been, but may be made also a most powerful

Iand profitable agent in husbandry, as will,

hope, be exhibited on an extensive scale in

the course of next summer.
    " There are many other circumstances in a

Ilong, and, may say, useful life of unwearied

 exertion, which might, with propriety, have

Ibeen brought forward; but have eonfined

 myself to those chiefly which, being of public

 notoriety, the public, if anything has been

 stated unfairly, has the means of confuting.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.               171

   " Permit me to trespass on your time one
moment longer. Since the death of Mr.

Moore, a very unusual number of new mem

Ibers, am told, has been admitted into the

society; many, it is possible, for the mere

purpose of voting at the ensuing election.

IThere are, trust, no friends of mine who

have gained admittance from any such

Imotive. If they have, must request they

will either not vote at all, or bestow their

votes on some other candidate. For myself,

I should feel it a disgrace to owe that to

private interference which it would be my

ambition to obtain by the public voice. If

I Iam to succeed will succeed only by fair

and honourable competition."

This memorial was received with so much

favour by the society, that little doubt was
entertained of Mr. Cartwright's success, had

he been inclined to continue the contest.
                             I2
   172  MEMOIK OF

   He, however, withdrew his pretensions in
   favour of Mr. Charles Taylor, to whose
   merit he bore the most liberal testimony, in
   a speech delivered before the society on the
   29th January, 1800.

       Mr. Charles Taylor was elected secretary
   to the society, in which situation he re
   mained until his death.

      It is somewhat remarkable, that in the

   memorial from which some extracts have

   been given, Mr. Cartwright only slightly
   alludes to his improvements in the art of
   weaving; and in the enumeration of what

   he considered his most important inventions,
   that of weaving by machinery is altoge

   ther omitted, although it ultimately proved

   to be the only one that ever returned any
   portion of the expense incurred in bringing

   it to perfection. But it was unknown to

   him that the power-loom was gradually and

V
              DR. CARTWKIGHT.  173

secretly coming into use; and although he
might not despair of its ultimate introduc
tion, yet his patent-right being expired, all
remuneration to himself for that invention

seemed nearly hopeless.
    The frequent invasions of his patent for

combing wool, as well as the petitions that

had been presented to parliament, as early

as the year 1796, against the introduction

of his machinery, might justly be considered

as indications of its increasing importance,

and rendered  it,  to all appearance, much

more likely to prove advantageous than the
weaving machine. But the difficulty of de
tection, as well as the expense of procuring
redress, had paralyzed the efforts of his
assignees, and had hitherto prevented them
from pursuing inquiry in many cases in
which they were morally convinced that

great infringements on his patent-right were
174  MEMOIR OF

practised. A most flagrant instance, how

ever, having come to their knowledge, in
which the parties not only used machinery
on Mr. Cartwright's principles themselves,
but fabricated combing-machines for the use
of other manufacturers, an action was
brought, in the names of Major Cartwright

and his brother Charles, against the persons

thus offending.

   In this cause, which came on to be tried
after Trinity term, 1799, the plaintiffs were

nonsuited; but this check, although an
addition to their expense and trouble, in no
way affected the principles on which they

sought redress. It appeared that when Mr.

Cartwright, in 1793, had assigned over his
patent-rights to his brothers, a suit was then
pending between him and another person
(on a question of invasion of patent-right),
and in the deed of assignment it was stipu-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  175

lated that Mr. Cartwright should be held as
legal owner of the patents, in trust for the
assignees, until the suit in question should
be legally determined. This suit had, in
fact, terminated, not in a legal trial, but in
one of those compromises to which the exi
gency of his affairs had but too frequently
compelled Mr. Cartwright to agree ; and his
assignees, considering this compromise as

having the same effect as if the matter had

been determined by law, had consequently
proceeded to act according to the different
provisions of the assignment. The defend
ants, however, objected, that as no fresh
assignment had taken place subsequent to
the determination of the depending suit, the
legal interest, not being vested in the plain

tiffs, still remained in Edmund Cartwright,

and therefore the defendants were entitled

to recover. The learned judge (Rooke)
176  MEMOIR OF

being of that opinion, directed a nonsuit.
But on the 18th November, of the same
year, Serjeant Eunnington having moved to
set aside the nonsuit, the judge admitted,
that on a further consideration of the effect

of the deed than was given to it at Nisi
Prius, he was convinced " that the legal

interest vested in the plaintiffs immediately
on the determination of the suit that was
then depending at the time when the inden
ture was executed." The rest of the court
having expressed an opinion to the same
effect, the nonsuit was set aside, and in the
following spring the cause was brought for
ward again, and tried before Lord Chief
Justice Eldon, in the Court of Common
Pleas.

   The hardship of Mr. Cartwright's case,
so strongly appearing in the pains that had

been taken to evade his patents, and defeat
DR. CART WRIGHT.  177

his efforts for protecting them, had awakened
a general sympathy in his favour. The
novelty and ingenuity of the machinery, of
which he was clearly proved to be the in
ventor, with the great display of talent and
knowledge on the part of those scientific
persons who had been called upon as wit
nesses to distinguish between artful imita
tion and original invention, rendered this

trial (John and Charles Cartwright v. Amatt
and others) one of the most curious and
interesting suits relative to the invasion of
patent-right that had ever been brought
forward in any court of justice. After a

laborious investigation, which occupied the
court two days, a verdict was given for the
plaintiffs, with a thousand pounds damages-

    The patient attention shewn by the Lord
Chief Justice Eldon throughout the whole
of this investigation, in which his lordship

                             13
178  MEMOIR OF

took infinite pains to make himself master
of the mechanieal part of the subject, was
always duly and gratefully acknowledged by
Major Cartwright and his brother.

    So favourable an issue to this important
trial was naturally hailed by Mr. Cartwright
and his friends as the turning of the tide in

the state of his affairs. It was discovered,

that in mills in several different parts of the
kingdom, his wool-combing machine had
been surreptitiously introduced and worked ;
and now that he had legally substantiated
his claim to the invention, he might reason
ably expect some pecuniary advantage from
its general adoption. But, strange as it
may appear, no pecuniary benefit ever did
accrue to him connected with this invention,
either immediately, in consequence of this
trial, or subsequently, on obtaining an ex

tension of his patent-right. It cannot be
DB. CARTWRIGHT.  179

denied that Mr. Cartwright had, in the late
trial, obtained the justice he was entitled
to ; but the expenses and difficulties attend
ing it were such as to deter him from again
seeking the same mode of redress. Major
Cartwright, indeed, by his indefatigable
perseverance, had succeeded in detecting
fresh instances of piracy ; but, in most in

stances, the assignees were induced to enter
into compromise with their opponents, rather
than incur the cost and vexation of another

lawsuit; and in these compromises, it is
hardly necessary to remark that Mr. Cart

wright and his brothers were not likely to
have the advantage. By this time, ten years
of the patent-right (relative to wool-comb
ing) were expired; and there seemed so little
prospect of deriving a reasonable remunera

tion from it during the four remaining years,
that Mr. Cartwright was advised to apply
180      MEMOIR OF

to parliament for an extension of the term --

an indulgence, which, though rarely granted,
was not without example. He accordingly
presented a petition, to that effect, to the
House of Commons, on the 17th March,
1801, the substance of which is contained
in the following document, which, as it ex
hibits in a succinct form, the causes of his
past and then existing difficulties, as well
as the grounds on which he sought parlia
mentary relief, is inserted nearly at full

length.

  " The Case of Edmund CartwriglU, of Marykbone
         Parish, Clerk, Master of Arts.

   " Mr. Cartwright, who now seeks the

protection of the legislature, is the author,
of various mechanical inventions, of great
utility to the manufactures of his country ;
but hitherto the labour of many anxious
DS. CARTWRIGHT.  181

years, fruitful in benefit to the public, hath
brought him no other reward than barren
reputation, accompanied by ruined fortunes,
a situation bitterly aggravated by his having
been obliged to behold many scandalous in
vasions of his property, without the means
of resistance ; and he might even have had
torn from him the honour of having been
the inventor of the art of combing long wool
by machinery, had it not been for the assist
ance of friends, by whose means he was en
abled to vindicate, in a court of law, the
originality of that invention.

   " Mr. Cartwright dates the origin of his

misfortunes from the burning of a mill,
which, in the year 1792, had been erected
at Manchester, for the working of five hun
dred looms of his invention, which burning
there was strong reason to believe had been
the premeditated act of evil-minded persons.
182  MEMOIR OF

Be this, however, as it may, it had the effect

of deterring other manufacturers from at
tempting to adopt the use of the patent
looms; notwithstanding the invention was
such, that with the loom in question, one
child of ten years old could execute as
much as two experienced men, and in a
style superior to any hand-weaving, which,
at the best, is only an approximation towards
correctness, whereas the patent loom gave
the same number of threads to every yard
of work, with mathematical accuracy.

   ." Notwithstanding, Mr. Cartwright, by
the misfortune above mentioned, was totally
defeated in his hope of advantage from an
invention he was some years in bringing to
perfection; yet the invention is still in
possession of the public, and when the ne
cessity of economy shall bring it into general
use, the national profit, from its abridg
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  183

mcnt of labour, and superiority of work,

cannot be less than one million and a half
sterling per annum ; especially as it will be

the means, whenever universally adopted,
of working up at home all that cotton twist
and yarn, which now seeks a market in

Saxony and other countries.

    " But to come to the immediate subject
of his present application to the legislature,
Mr. Cartwright has to state, that although
we derive from high antiquity the art of
converting wool into jersey, by means of the

ordinary comb, no one has recorded any

improvement whatever, either upon the art
or the implements, until they became the

subject of his study and contemplation --a

fact which affords no slight presumption of
the inherent difficulty of the task.

   " In the year 1790, Mr. Cartwright, how

ever, after some abortive attempts, had the
184  MEMOIR OF

happiness to strike out a practicable mode
of combing wool by machinery ; and for the
combing machinery he then invented, to
gether with other inventions, he obtained
his Majesty's patent for England, &c.
Pushing his experiments and discoveries,
he made successive improvements, taking
out a second patent in December of the
same year ; and a third patent, for combing
machinery, and other inventions, in the
month of May, 1792; besides one in De
cember, 1792, for Scotland.

   " Fortunately for Mr. Cartwright, not

only the originality of his invention for
combing wool has been established upon a
rock, but its great national utility also has
been proved beyond contradiction, in the
course of the late laborious trial (which, for
two whole days, occupied the Court of Com
mon Pleas), before the Right Honourable
DR. CARTWKIGHT.  185

Lord Chief Justice Eldon, and a special
jury.

   " As besides the presence of the Chief
Justice, that trial was attended by a noble

lord of the upper house, as a witness, and
by an honourable member of the House of
Commons, as a barrister ; there are thus, in
both houses of parliament, honourable and
noble persons, to whom an appeal can be
successfully made for the correctness of this
statement. As the whole proceedings on
that trial are very voluminous, Mr. Cart-
wright is printing, and means to publish,
the summing up only, transcribed by Mr.
Gurney, from his own short-hand notes, and
the manuscript has been submitted to the
Chief Justice for his correction. Therein

      be seen the opinion Lord Eldon enter
tained, and frequently expressed, of the
merit and utility of the invention. On the
186  MEMOIR OF

trial alluded to, it was proved, that by the
use of each single set of Mr. Cartwright's

patent combing machines, the saving in

labour was more than one thousand one

hundred pounds per annum; from which
fact, combined with the estimate of the
quantity of combing wool produced in Eng

land, it results that whenever the patent

combing machine shall be universally
adopted, the total saving to the nation can
not be so little as a million sterling a-year.

    " Mr. Cartwright will not load his case
with a detail of all those complicated causes
which have hitherto prevented his deriving
benefit from the invention in question ; but
leave them to the imagination of the reader,
who will easily conceive the difficulty of
stemming the tide of prejudice, rivalship,
and injustice, by a man of ruined fortunes.

    " Suffice it then to say, that after em-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  187

ploying himself indefatigably for several
years in his mechanical pursuits and dis
coveries, and failing to meet with that
remuneration which could alone enable him
to support the expense, he in the year
1793 sunk under a burthen too great for
him to bear ; surrendering for the benefit of
his creditors, not only his whole estate, but
assigning also all his patents themselves to
trustees for the same purpose ; and although
the only rightful owner of the only valid
patents for combing machines, he had the
mortification to find himself, for seven years
more, sinking deeper and deeper in debt,
before even those patents could be put out
of danger by the decision of a court of
law.

   " Why those patents, intrinsically of so

much value as hath been stated, have not
yet in any degree amended his pecuniary

                                                .
188  MEMOIR OF

situation, is only to be accounted for from
causes already touched upon, but the fact
is certain, that the expense incurred in
their preservation from that destruction of
them that was attempted, has hitherto very
far exceeded the profits they have brought
in, so that by the necessary accumulation
of a debt when there is not the means of
keeping down the interest, the patentee is at
this moment much deeper in debt than when
he first surrendered his estates; whereas,
had his patent combing machinery above
mentioned, been adopted so early and so
generally as he might reasonably have ex
pected, he must long, ere now, have been in
a state of affluence. The whole of his

actual loss from prosecuting his mechanical
inventions, when the debt thereby is taken
into the account, much exceeds the sum of

thirty thousand pounds. Seeing that the
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  189

patents which included his wool-combing
machinery are respectively drawing near to
their expiration, while yet the degree in
which the machines have been adopted is
far too small to flatter the patentee with
even a hope of paying the interest of his
debt, unless the legislature shall generously
take him under its protection; he has
resolved to make the present application
for an extension of the patent terms, so far
as relates to the combing and preparing of
wool. And he most humbly and earnestly

hopes, that if his claims shall be found

deserving, he shall receive from the indi
vidual and collective wisdom of parliament,
that indulgence which other patentees, on
similar applications, though not under cir
cumstances of such peculiar hardship, have
in many instances received from the legisla
ture of their country."
190  MEMOIR OF

    The petition from Mr. Cartwright was
favourably received by the House of Com

mons, and being referred to the considera
tion of a committee, different witnesses

were examined, whose evidence went to
prove not only the truth of all the allega
tions contained in the petition, but many
additional circumstances calculated to
strengthen the claims of the petitioner.

It appeared by the evidence given on the

occasion, by Major Cartwright, that by
reason of the distressed state of the peti
tioner's affairs, he had not the means of
appealing to the laws of his country for
redress, but that he (the witness), as trustee
for his brother's patent rights, had in the

year 1799 commenced an action at law
against certain invaders of those rights,
which action was concluded in April, 1800,
by a verdict in favour of the patentee.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                 191

Before it was convenient to him to advance

money in defence of the said patents, he
had found himself under the necessity, for
promoting the interests of the patentee and
his creditors, to make a compromise with
persons who had taken out two patents
for wool-combing machinery, although he
knew, and the parties themselves have
since acknowledged to him, that their
patents were for machinery that infringed

on the patents of the petitioner. It was

also stated by Major Cartwright, that his
brother had been compelled, by the exigency
of his affairs in 1793, to desist from a suit,
and enter into a compromise with another
person who had taken out a patent, which
the witness, having seen both the machinery
itself and a specification of was convinced
was not valid patent, but an infringe
ment of that of the petitioner. In conse
a

                           it,
192  MEMOIR OP

quence of these forced compromises, and of
the inability, on the part of the inventor, to
vindicate in all cases of infringement the
originality of his invention, the public
remained in suspense as to what machine
for wool-combing might be legally and most
advantageously used ; and this witness was
further of opinion, that unless the term of
the present patent-right should be reason
ably prolonged, it would not be prudent for

the patentee, or his trustees, to enter into
any fresh lawsuit for the purpose of vindi
cating his rights.

   In addition to the above evidence, was

that of another witness, who had been em
ployed for seven years in a mill, where six
sets of the combing machines were used;
and who estimated the profits arising
from each set at 1100/. per annum. This
witness mentioned also some other mills
DE. CARTWRIGHT.  193

where this machinery was employed, and
was of opinion that, had it not been for the
invasion of the patent, the original machine
would have been in general use.

    The report from the Committee, which
was delivered the 13th April, by Mr. Spen
cer Stanhope, having proved satisfactory to
the House, leave was given on the 8th May,
to prepare and bring in a Bill, for the pur
pose of prolonging Mr. Cartwright's patent
right, as far as regarded wool- combing, for
the term of fourteen years. Whilst this

Bill was in progress, several counter peti

tions were presented to the House from
certain persons, who conceived that its ope
ration would affect those agreements, or

compromises, which Mr. Cartwright had
been induced to enter into with them, as
 well as tend to check the ingenuity that

                                    K
194  MEMOIR OF

might be beneficially exercised in improving
upon the invention in question.

    These petitions being referred to the
consideration of the Committee appointed

to inquire into Mr. Cartwright's claims, and

leave being given to the respective peti
tioners on both sides of the question to be
heard by counsel, the matter was argued
with all the acuteness that might be ex
pected from some of the most eminent legal
characters of the day. On this occasion,

Mr.Cartwright conceiving himself personally
aggrieved by the observations of one of the

counsel for the opposing party, prepared a
reply to these offensive observations, which,
to judge from the sketch found amongst his

papers, appears to have been drawn up with
his usual perspicuity and clearness, though
somewhat partaking of that indignant style,
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  195

which, when roused by insult, it was well-
known he could assume. The case of Mr.
Watt, to whom an extension of patent right

was granted in the fifteenth year of George

III., having been alluded to, with an invidious

comparison between his superior claims and

those of Mr. Cartwright, the latter observed

in reply, " It was admitted by the learned

counsel of my opponent, that in extending
the patent of Mr. Watt, Parliament was

justified. Perhaps if the learned gentleman

had known the whole of the two cases, he
would not in the same breath have approved

of the one extension, and condemned the

other. The steam-engine is doubtless a
machine of immense value, but Mr. Watt

did not invent the steam-engine. That was

a discovery of a former age. It had been

known and used a great part of a century
at the time when Mr. Watt first exercised

                                   K2
196                 MEMOIR OF

his invention upon  it,and his invention

went no further than to an improvement.a

do not mean to arrogate too much to
I
myself, but certainly have right to say,
                 athat not only the first machines for combing

            Iwool were of my invention, but that inI

vented the very art itself of combing              by
machinery, which till that time was utterly
                                           a
unknown, and in which did not derive
                    ;

                      I

                           it

                                       is
single ray of light from any human inge
nuity of former date and will be kept in

mind that the combing of wool the very
basis of the great supereminent manufac

ture of this country." On the 5th June,

the Bill was read third time, and passed
                    a

                                It
the House of Commons.               received an

amendment in the House of Lords, providing

for the security of such persons as had pre

viously entered into compromise with Mr.
Cartwright, and on the 2nd July, the Bill

received the Koyal Assent.
DR. CART WRIGHT.  197

    This great object being attained, Mr.
Cartwright, in having fourteen years of se
cured possession to look forward to, seemed
placed in so advantageous a position, that
it might reasonably be expected he should in
future be able to treat with his opponents

on more equitable terms, and compel those
who employed his machinery to acknowledge
a right thus sanctioned by an especial act of

the Legislature. But the deficiency of pecu
niary means to follow up the necessary
inquiries, still continued; and in addition
to this impediment, the activity of his mind
became diverted towards a variety of other
objects, from some of which he probably

hoped to derive more immediate benefit.
"Whatever the causes of failure might be,

it is certain that no advantage did accrue

to him from the renewal of his patent right,
nor indeed did he ever reap any pecuniary
198  MEMOIR OF

gain from an invention of such acknowledged
ingenuity.*

   * That the wool-combers had taken alarm at the
introduction of the machine in question, was evident
from the circumstance of there having been between
fifty and sixty petitions to Parliament against its
use as early as the year 1796. The number of
wool-combers was estimated at fifty thousand.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  199

                CHAPTER VI.

In the interesting memoirs of Mr. vCrab be,

the author, speaking of Dr. Cartwright, has,
with great felicity of expression, noticed
"the expanding versatility of his mind."
This opinion was formed on the report of
no common observer; and, indeed, the faci
lity with which he could apply his mind to
small, or rather familiar objects, was remark
able, and denoted its elasticity no less than
its power. Frequent intercourse with men
of ingenuity like himself, had led him into
200  MEMOIR OF

a greater variety of speculations and experi
ments than it is necessary here to enumerate.
In the most common* arts of life, he could
seldom abstain from attempting some con
trivance to reduce manual labour; at the
same time that he was far from being one of
those ingenious triflers who amuse themselves
in puerile contrivances, merely to exercise
their ingenuity without aiming at any useful

result. In agriculture, which had always

been one of his favourite pursuits, he was
continually devising some improvement, or
attempting some experiment. And that he

   * In his own house bread was made by a machine,
and not many years since, an old friend of the family

going into a biscuit-maker's shop in Leeds, noticed
a machine that the man, who had been a navy biscuit-
maker, used for beating his dough. The man stated
that the machine was invented by a Mr. Cartwright,
of Doncaster, and that he should not know how to
get on with his business without it.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  201

had at the same time an enlarged, and what

will probably be found to be, a just view of
the results of machinery, will appear from
the following extract from a letter addressed
to Sir John Sinclair, at that time President
of the Board of Agriculture, as early as the
year 1793, on the subject of a reaping-
machine which he was then engaged in con

structing :--

  I" am fully apprised that to many well-

intentioned men, looking only on the surface
of things, the invention 1 am preparing to
bring forward will appear as of an inju
rious tendency to the interests of the labour
ing poor. Were it possible to persuade

myself this would really be the case, it would

require no great stretch of benevolence to
suppress an invention of such pernicious
tendency ; but unless the application of me
chanism to the purposes of agriculture

                                 K3
202  MEMOTR OF

should operate in a manner totally different

from what it has uniformly done in manu

factures, such apprehension must be ground

less. It is a fact, indisputably ascertained by

experience, that whatever facilitates labour

multiplies the calls for it. Hence it is rea

sonable to conclude that reducing the ex

pense, or giving expedition to the operations
of industry, is eventually contributing to
bring lands, hitherto uncultivated, into a
state of cultivation, and occasioning those
already in cultivation, to be cultivated more
highly. Thus in agriculture, as in manu

factures, it will be found that to enable one

man, by the intervention of machinery, to
do the work of ten, is not to throw nine men
out of employment, as many would errone

ously suppose, but on the contrary, it is to

give one man ten pair of hands ; and (which
is of still greater consequence) with his
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  203

powers of exertion, enlarging at the same
time the field of his activity."

   In June, 1801, he was adjudged a prize
from the Board of Agriculture, for an Essay
on Agriculture, composed with perspicuity

and elegance; and which, though chiefly
unfolding the general principles of the art,
shews, at the same time, that the writer pos
sessed an ample acquaintance with its detail.

   About this period, a plan was in contem
plation for establishing an experimental farm
in the neighbourhood of London, under the
direction of the Board of Agriculture, and
Mr. Cartwright had been pointed out as a

suitable person to superintend the manage
ment of it. Such an occupation would have
been peculiarly agreeable to him, and his
disappointment would have been great when
the scheme was ultimately abandoned, had
he not, shortly afterwards, received an offef
from Francis, Duke of Bedford, to un-
204  MEMOIR OF

dertake the direction of an experimental
farm that he was about to establish on his
own estate. His invention of the geometri
cal bricks had attracted the Duke's attention
as early as the year 1797, and the interest
he appeared to take in subjects connected
with agriculture, had still further recom
mended Mr. Cartwright to the notice of his
Grace, who was then distinguished as being
one of its most liberal patrons.

    In the autumn of 1801, he entered on his
new engagement at Woburn; but in the
following spring, he had the misfortune of
losing his noble friend, whose untimely death,
not only cast a heavy gloom on Mr. Cart-
wright's own prospects, but contributed to
check that encouragement of agriculture, of

which his Grace had given so eminent an
example. The farming arrangements begun
by the late Duke at Woburn, were, however,

carried on by his successor, and Mr. Cart
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  205

wright continued to reside there until the
spring of 1807. During his residence in

Bedfordshire, his time and attention were
chiefly applied to subjects connected with
agriculture; but that pursuit, when con
ducted on a liberal scale, leads to a variety
of other objects which naturally bring in
quiring minds into contact with each other.
The short period of peace which Europe at
that time enjoyed, facilitated the communi
cation amongst each other of men of science

in different countries, and Mr. Cartwright
had the gratification of finding that his name
was not unknown to persons of that descrip
tion on the continent, several of whom sought
his acquaintance, on taking advantage of the
peace to visit England.

    In 1803 he was adjudged the silver medal

from the Society of Arts, for the invention

of a three-furrow plough. In 1804 he was

chosen an honorary member of the Board
206           MEMOIR OF

of Agriculture, and in 1805 received the
gold medal from the same society.

    The essay for which the Board of Agri
culture had awarded him the medal, contains
a minute detail of some curious experiments
on the application and fertilizing effects of

different substances used as manure ; and as
the experiments were conducted with great
exactitude, the author seems fully justified

in the inferences he derives from them. But
feeling some degree of diffidence as to the cor
rectness of his own conclusions, he appears,

from the following letters, to have submitted
his manuscript to the revision of that emi

nent philosopher, Sir Humphry Davy :--

MR. CARTWRIGHT TO SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.

I" My dear Sir, -- herewith send you a

Idetail of the experiments have been trying

Ion manures.  fear you will find it very

imperfect. Business, which was not to be
DR. CARTWRIGHT.              207

dispensed with, and ill health, which, in the

course of last summer, blotted out nearly

three months of my existence, have com

Ipelled me to compress what have written

Iinto a very small compass.  say not this,

however, as an apology to you, to whom

a word will sufficiently explain my mean

ing, but many words are required to make

even the clearest ideas intelligible to com

mon apprehensions. " Verbum sapienti,

Iinsipienti volumen? As mean this paper,

in some shape or other, and at no very

distant period, to meet the public eye,
you will have the goodness to look it over

for the rectifying any error, whether che

mical or not, which you may perceive in it.

I will thank you also for any observations

which the perusal of it may suggest to you.

  I" You will observe have not mentioned to

Iwhom have been indebted for the analyzing

Ithe earth, as do not think it justifiable to
208     MEMOIR OF

speak of private communications without

I Ipermission.
        hope, however, that shall

have your permission, not only to mention

this, but many other valuable communica

Itions shall receive from you. As soon as

you have had time to look over the MS.

and to note down your remarks on the blank

Ipages, will thank you to return &c.

                       " Edmund Cartwright."
                                            I it,
  sir humphry davy to mr. cartwright.is
   " Dear Sir, -- have perused your trea           I
         I
tise twice with very great pleasure, and
hope you will soon make public.it

  " The only point of theory in which differI

from you, where you attribute the effect
of salt to its power of attracting moisture
from the air. This agency must be very
slight, and should rather conceive that

the benefit derived, must depend upon the
saline matter being taken into the organs
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                     209

of the plants. Muriate of sodn is found in

a great number of plants, and it may be

one of the substances contributing to their

healthy organization.

  " I have not the slightest objection to your

bringing forward the analysis on my autho

Irity. And feel proud in having been

able, even in so slight a degree, to assist

your very important researches.

             I" am, dear Sir, &c.,

"London, Feb. 21, 1805."  "H. Davy.

    That portion of the experiments above re
ferred to, which relate to the efficacy of salt
as a manure, are described in a paper ub-

lished in the " Philosophical Magazine,''
vol. xxiii. p. 16. But as the application of

chemistry to agriculture is a subject which

attracts much attention at the present day,

it has been thought advisable to print the
entire essay. [See Appendix (F).] Inde
210  MEMOIR OF

pendently of the great care with which these

experiments appear to have been conducted,
the treatise derives a further value, from the

notes appended to the original MS. by Sir
Humphry Davy, and now first published.

   In 1806, he also received from the Board

a silver medal for an essay on the culture

of potatoes. In the same year he took the
degree of Dr. in Divinity, and officiated as

domestic chaplain to the Duke of Bedford.

In 1807 he published a small volume of
letters and sonnets addressed to Lord John

Kussel, whose character and talents even at
an early age, had engaged Dr. Cartwright's
sincere admiration and esteem. The sonnet

seemed always to have been a favourite
form of composition with him, and he gives
in the introductory letter this humorous
and characteristic reason for his preference,

that it is "a species of composition admir

ably suited to the resources of a super-'
          DR. CARTWRIGHT.  211

animated poet, whose brains will not bear

more than fourteen strokes of the poetical

pump, before the reservoir is exhausted."

With greater justice than he measures to
himself, it may be allowed that the sonnet

entitled Sympathy, indicates no exhaustion
of feeling, any more than the Climacteric
Thoughts do, the approach of superan

nuation.

          SYMPATHY.

That law of nature well may we admire,
   Which gives to matter sympathies profound:

    Touch but the simple string when duly wound,

An echo answers from its kindred wire.
But greater reverence must that law inspire,

   Which mind obeys, when rightly tuned and sound,
   Each selfish tone in Sympathy is drown'd,

That makes the heart her animated lyre.

  If sympathy, her kindred touch impart,

   What chords of passion vibrate through the heart !
What notes within her diapason lie!
No strain of woe too deep, of joy too high!
She tunes in unison each mental strife,
And hence the moral harmony of life.
212  MEMOIR OF

          CLIMACTERIC THOUGHTS.

Now threescore years and three have pass'd away,
And time and care have turn'd these locks to grey;
Old age, and death, with slow, yet certain pace,

Creep on to terminate my mortal race;

And lo! to make their visit more severe,

"What horrid phantoms in their train appear!
What dire diseases press upon my view,
Of every shapeless form and squalid hue!
See Fever, gasping with volcanic breath,
And Ague, colder than the hand of death!

Eroding Cancer, that evades the light,
And Dotage, drivelling on in mental night!
With agonizing throes, see Phrenzy rave,
And Dropsy struggling in a watery grave!
Her helpless victim stretch'd upon the rack,
With ruthless blade, see Gout prepares the attack!
To every vital part she turns the point,
And drives a fiery wedge thro' every joint.
Last in the gloomy rear see Palsy stand,
With trembling grasp to shake life's lingering sand !

IAll these, and more, alas! too well see

On human life attend by Heaven's decree.

IMay then, that Heaven to whose decree kneel,

Teach me to bear what all are born to feel;
Give me, as hitherto, thro' trials past,

A patient mind, unshaken to the last!
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  213

               CHAPTER VII.

It has been already stated, that Dr. Cart-

wright, even during the existence of his
patent right, had retained but little expec
tation of deriving any pecuniary advantage
from his invention of weaving; and when
his latest patent had been several years
expired, the prospect of remuneration ap
peared entirely hopeless. He might be
aware that his loom was coming into use,
but he had now so little communication
with the manufacturing districts, that he
could form no idea of the extent to which
214  MEMOIR OF

it was adopted. Weaving by machinery

was, however, beginning to make consider
able progress, and was even then preparing
for him the only compensation that he ever
received for years of anxiety, and great
pecuniary loss. This progress was con
nected with the circumstances of the times,
by which an extraordinary impulse had

been given to the British manufactures in
general, and which rendered the beginning
of the present century a far more favourable
period for the introduction of machine
weaving than that in which Dr. Cartwright
had first attempted it. The great improve
ments that had been effected in the art of
spinning, had, with other causes, occasioned
a vast accumulation of cotton yarn, which
on account of the disturbed state of the
Continent, could no longer be disposed of
in the foreign market, neither could hands
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  215

(which, in consequence of a long protracted
war, were become less numerous than they
had been) be found sufficient to work it up

at home. At the same time, the demand

for English cotton piece goods was greatly
increasing, and the manufacturers found
themselves called upon to devise some
means of answering a demand which want
of hands and want of looms prevented
their being able to supply.* The only ex
pedient that seemed to present itself, was
the adoption of the hitherto rejected power-
loom: thus literally justifying the hypo
thetical suggestion of its author, in that
remarkable conversation which had first
turned his attention to the subject of

fmechanics. From the year 1792, when

Messrs. Grimshaw's mill had been destroyed,

      * See Radcliffe on Cotton Spinning, p. 12.
                     t See p. 56, supra.
210                         MEMOIR OF

and Mr. Cartwright's establishment, at

Doncaster, as well as some others connected

with was abandoned, does not appearof, it,
                                 a it
that any manufacturer had ventured openly
to employ his loom, liable as he would in

that case have been to payment for its

use during the existence of the patent right.

The machine, however, had not been lost

sight  and on its becoming open to the

public by the expiration of the patent;

several manufacturers sought to adapt to
                                                             it

their own purposes. Great improvements
   doubtless did receive from that ingenuity
it

                        by
and spirit of enterprise, which were called

into action                 the circumstances of the

times, but rather unfairly towards Dr.

Cartwright,* some of these improvers as-

      Mr. Peter Marsland was most honourable
exception to this remark though he had been him
self great improver of the power-loom, yet he was
*

   a

                                                          ;

                                                    a
DK. CARTWRIGOT.  217

sumed to themselves the whole merit of
the invention, and though his machine
formed the basis, as it still does, of all the
power-looms that have hitherto been found
effective, his claim to the original inven
tion was far from being generally recognised.
In some instances the invention had been

ascribed to persons who had formerly worked
looms under a licence from Dr. Cartwright,
but who, either from want of capital, or the
then unfavourable state of the trade, had
not succeeded in their undertakings, and yet
had retained so decided a conviction of the
value of the machine as to be induced to

revive it under more encouraging auspices.

    The improved quality of the yarn had
also contributed to render machine weaving

so fully satisfied of the justice of Mr. Cartwright's
claim, that his name stands first in the memorial
presented to Government in his favour.
218                 MEMOIR OF

less difficult, as well as the fabric produced

by of more perfect quality than whenit,
            a
Dr. Cartwright first undertook it. The ex
                ;
traordinary advances that had been made
                it
in the application of mechanical power, by

improvements in the steam-engine &c,

doubtless facilitated the extension of the

power-loom but in justice to most inge
                           it
nious man, must be acknowledged thatit is a

Mr. Radcliffe's admirable contrivance for

dressing the warp* before            put into the

        by
loom, which means time and attendance

are saved, contributed probably beyond any

other improvement to render completely

available.f About the year 1806, Dr.

* That      is,applying paste to render the threads

smooth.         it

      " The great obstacle to the success of the power-
f

loom was, that was necessary to stop the machinea it

frequently in order to dress the warp as unrolled
from the beam, which operation required man to
           DE. CARTWRIGHT.                    219

Cartwright was induced to make some
inquiries respecting the state of the cotton
manufacture in general, but more especially
in the neighbourhood and town of Man-

be employed for each loom, so that there was no
saving of expense. This difficulty was happily

removed by the invention of an extremely ingenious

and effectual mode of dressing the warp before it

was placed in the loom." --Baines' History of the

Cotton Manufacture, p. 231.

  It should appear, however, that Mr. Kadcliffe's

mode of dressing the warp is equally applicable to the

hand-loom. In his " Origin of Power-loom Weav
Iing," p. 30, he says, " Though at that time
                                              was

obliged to bring such a number of boys and girls

into the factory to work the looms, yet when the
hands had been taught to work them, it was my

intention to disperse all these looms into the cottages

of the weavers throughout the country, in lots pro
portioned to the number of children in the families,

delivering them the warps ready dressed, and pre

pared ready for weaving off the beam, and their weft

in cops ready for the shuttle, without previous

winding."

           L2
220  MEMOIR OF

Chester, and found that machine-wearin?
was already practised to a much greater
extent than he had anticipated, and that
considerable profit was accruing, not only
to individuals, but to the country at large;
from discoveries which to him had been
productive of nothing but loss and dis

appointment. In a letter to his friend Dr.

Bardsley, senior, an eminent physician in
Manchester, he could not refrain from ex
pressing the bitterness of his feelings on the
subject, and this letter being communicated
to some highly respectable and influential
gentlemen of that place, they were so much
struck by the hardship of Dr. Cartwright's
case, as to express their willingness to con
cur in any application to Parliament that
he or his friends should think proper to
make, for the purpose of obtaining some

remuneration from the public.* In conse
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  221

quence of the encouragement given by these
gentlemen, Dr. Bardsley, with a warmth
of friendship most truly appreciated by him

in whose favour it was exerted, applied

himself to obtain the information that was
required', in order to shew the grounds on
which Dr. Cartwright might have a claim
to public gratitude, and also what was no
less material, to satisfy the minds of the
manufacturers that he really was the original
inventor of the machine in question, which
so many of them were in the habit of using.

    The result of these inquiries tended to
shew, that the power loom was already em
ployed to a considerable extent, and that its
use was rapidly increasing ; but no stronger
proof could be required of the importance
that was attached to its progress by those
best acquainted with, and most deeply con
cerned in the trade, than the fact, that a
222  MEMOIR OF

memorial, in Dr. Cartwright's favour, was
signed by fifty of the most respectable and
influential gentlemen of the town and neigh
bourhood of Manchester, and presented to
Government in August, 1807.* This memo
rial was followed, in the spring of 1808, by a
petition from Dr. Cartwright, to the House
of Commons ; and the house having agreed to
take his claims into consideration, a com
mittee was appointed to that effect; and on
the 4th and 7th March, and on the 12th
April, evidence was examined in support
of his allegations. He was fortunately
enabled to bring forward a very mate
rial witness in Mr. Joseph Taylor, who
had not only been his own engineer at the
outset of his mechanical career, but had also
been the superintendant at Messrs. Grim-
shaw's factory, at Knott Mill, at the time

                         * See Appendix G.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  223

when its destruction by fire had given so
severe a check to the introduction of the

power-loom. In Mr. Baines's interesting His

tory of the Cotton Manufacture, is a passage
relative to Messrs. Grimshaw's connection
with Dr. Cartwright, which might lead to
a very different inference from what really
was the fact, and which can only have found
a place in a work of so much candour and
liberality, in consequence of some defective

information. It is here stated, that " about

1790, Messrs. Grimshaw, of Gorton, under
a licence from Dr. Cartwright, erected a
weaving factory at Knott Mills, Manchester,
and attempted to improve the power-loom,
at great cost to themselves. They did not
succeed, and the factory being burnt down,

they abandoned the undertaking." --p. 231.

Now, Messrs. Grimshaw had certainly been
at a great expense, but that was incurred in
224  MEMOIK OF

erecting a factory, which was to contain
500 of Dr. Cartwright's looms ; and as only

about four-and-twenty of the looms were
actually set to work, before the mill was

destroyed, no just estimate could be formed
of the probable success of the undertak

ing, although it appears from Taylor's

evidence, that the looms (which there is
no ground whatever for supposing Messrs.

Grimshaw had been at any cost to improve,)

were found to do their work remarkably

well.

   The substance of Mr. Taylor's evidence

was to this effect. He stated, that he was

acquainted with Dr. Cartwright's invention,
in 1784, even before the first patent was

taken out ; that he had then seen a trial of

and, in his judgment,
it,                                  was calculated

                                 it

to answer the purpose of weaving. In 1791,

he had accompanied Mr. Grimshaw, who
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  225

was a master check-manufacturer, in great
business, to Doncaster, where he then wit
nessed the improvements Mr. Cartwright
had effected since the taking out of his
first patent. Mr. Grimshaw having en
tered into an agreement to employ a certain
number of Mr. Cartwright's looms, pro
ceeded to build a large mill for that pur
pose ; the expense of which, independently
of the steam-engine and machinery, which
would be nearly 3000/. additional, was es
timated at 5700/. Of the four-and-twenty
looms that were completed, twelve were set
to work, at weaving check, which had been
Mr. Grinishaw's peculiar line of business.
These looms worked exceedingly well ; they
wrought the work for half the amount of
wages which they were then paying to hand
weavers; the weavers, in consequence,
threatened to destroy the mill, ane^the

                                  L3
226  MEMOIR OF

owners received anonymous* letters to that;

effect. On receiving these letters, a conif it,

siderable part of the property, especially the
yarn, was removed out of the mill; and in

about a month afterwards, in March, 1792,

it was burnt down. From the rapidity with

which the building was consumed, it pro
bably was fired in different places, and Mr.

Taylor was confirmed, in his conviction, of

its being by design, from the circumstance

of there not having been, to his personal

knowledge as manager, any fire employed

within the mill during three preceding days.

   * One of these letters (copied from the advertise
ment issued under the signature of the Right Ho
nourable Henry Dundas, then one of his Majesty's
principal Secretaries of State, dated Whitehall,
March 22nd, 1792, offering a reward to discover the
offender), was in the following terms :--

   " Sirs --TVe have sworn together to destroy your
factory, if we die for and to have your life for

ruining our trade and you go on, you know the
certainty, which comes unknown to my companions."
DR. CABTWEIGHT.                         227

Messrs. Grimshaw, who had ensured their

property to the amount of 12,000/., did not

venture to re-build their mill at Manchester,

and had tried in vain in other places. It

also appeared in evidence, that the alarm,

in consequence of this untoward event, and

continued threats on the part of the hand-

weavers, had become so general, that no one

ventured openly to use the loom within the

period of Dr. Cartwright's patent right.

One passage in Mr. Taylor's evidence seems
particularly deserving of notice, as it shews,

if his opinion be correct, that this machine

is not necessarily chargeable with all the

evils that have fallen on the hand-loom

ifweavers, and that  they had availed

themselves of its advantages, instead of

obstinately setting themselves against  tp

the great manufacturers might not have       it,
been driven to adopt the mill system the
228  MEMOIR OF

extent they have done: and that the hand-

weavers might still have retained such a

portion of business in their own hands as

would have enabled them better to meet

thosefluctuations which every description

oftrade and manufactures is liable to, and

which legislative interference cannot pre
vent, and only very imperfectly remedy.

On being desired to state to the committee

whether the unavoidable effect of this in

vention is to crowd the persons together

who are employed in Mr. Taylor replied,
that " the machinery may be worked with
     by
                      by it,

                                       by
                                               by
equal advantage without crowding people

together, the weaver having looms in his

own family and turning them hand; six

looms may be turned  one man,                      which

means he may employ little children, and
superintend them himself, and will have six

looms at once, instead of one, and every loom
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  229

would do as much work as one weaver would
do at a common loom."

   It was also stated by Mr. Taylor, that

cloth, woven by machinery, was of a better
quality and bore a higher price than that
woven by hand ; a statement fully confirmed
by the fact, that cloth woven by hand is
frequently stamped as power-loom cloth,
and sold as such to all parts of the world.*

   * See Radcliffe, Origin of Power Looin Weaving.
   " The superiority of machine cloth may easily be
accounted for. The best hand-weavers seldom pro
duce a piece of uniform evenness ; indeed, it is next
to impossible for them to do so, because a weaker
or stronger blow with the lathe immediately alters
the thickness of the cloth ; and after an interruption
of some hours, the most experienced weaver finds it
difficult to re-commence with a blow of precisely the
same force as the one with which he left off". In

steam looms the lathe gives a certain steady blow,
and when once regulated by the engine, moves with
the greatest precision from the beginning to the end
   230  MEMOIB. OF

      The next evidence was that of Mr.
   William Radcliffe, of Stockport, a gentle
   man of great practical experience and know
   ledge in every branch of the cotton trade,
   and whose opinion as to the probable in
   crease of the use of the power-loom, has been
   completely justified by the event. Until
   applied to by Dr. Cartwright's solicitors, it
   does not appear that Mr. Radcliffe knew
   who was the inventor of the power-looms,
   though he had himself employed them ; but
   the circumstance of these looms being known
   by the name of the Doncaster loom, suffi
   ciently identified the inventor, and Mr.
   Radcliffe came forward, with the utmost

   of the piece. Cloth made by these looms, when
   seen by those manufactures who employ hand-

   weavers, at once excites admiration and a conscious

   ness that their own work cannot exceed it." -- Guesfs

   Hist. Cotton Manufacture, p. 46.

\
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  231

liberality and candour, to do justice to their
merit. His evidence, in the first place,
went to shew that the inveterate opposition
of the hand-weavers had been the means of

deterring the manufacturers from adopting

the use of machinery, until the trade had
now become such that the hand-weavers
themselves were interested in producing a
sufficient supply of cotton goods at home to
answer the increasing demand for them, as
well as to work up the surplus quantity of
yarn. " During a period of about nine
years," Mr. Radcliffe said, "from 1793 to
1802, the machinery for spinning cotton
yarn, with the ingenuity, practical know
ledge, and persevering industry of the per
sons concerned in this branch, became so

perfect as to enable the spinners to produce
more yarn than could possibly be made into

cloth by all the weavers Great Britain could
232  MEMOIR OF

collect for the purpose. The demand for
cotton cloth was equal, during this period,
to take off the whole produce of the spindle,

if weavers could have been found to have

made it into cloth; but this being impos

sible, the spinners began to export the surplus

to the manufacturers abroad --into France,

Germany, Kussia, Switzerland, Holland,
Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Sweden, &c.,
countries possessing a multitude of weavers
formerly employed in weaving linen, silk,
stuffs, &c. &c., whose labour was to be had
at half the price which was paid for such
labour in this country. The consequence of
which has been, that these foreign manufac
turers began to furnish their neighbours
with such cotton cloths as heretofore they
could only obtain from this country : hence,
by degrees, the British manufacturers and
the East India Company lost nearly ail their
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  233

trade for piece goods to those countries
before mentioned, which is the sole cause of
all the distress which is now heard of in the
cotton trade." Mr. Kadcliffe proceeded to

state, that " this invention of Dr. Cart-

wright's, coupled with some other improve
ments that have been lately discovered for
preparing and dressing the cotton twist
ready for the loom, is particularly calculated
to remedy this evil speedily, by working up
a great part of their surplus yarn, and that
not into fabrics that will interfere with the

cotton goods heretofore made by our weav
ers, but into vast quantities of strong stout
cotton goods for shirting, sheeting, &c."
He also stated, that he knew many spinners
who were ready to appropriate part of their
mills to weaving by machinery, on Dr.
Cartwright's principles, when any demand
for piece goods should spring up ; and that
234  MEMOIR OF

if it should be generally adopted, the trade

for piece goods would immediately revive,
and by degrees the markets would not only
open again for cotton goods manufactured
in Great Britain, but also for those imported
by the East India Company, who had suf
fered very greatly by the foreigners making
from our twist, goods similar to what they
used to purchase at the Company's sales,
which had answered their purpose abroad as
a substitute for India cloth." Mr. Kadcliffe
added, " that he considered the invention of
Dr. Cartwright as so important to the pros
perity of the Manchester trade, that were it
suppressed, or its application no further ex
tended, the cotton trade would be chiefly
confined to spinning, and the weavers on the
continent, in the end, become the sole manu
facturers." On being asked what were the
number of mills in which these looms were
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  235

set up, he replied that he knew of twenty-
eight, or thirty, and there might be more of
which he did not know ; and also gave it as
his opinion, that it had been necessary for
Dr. Cartwright to establish a manufactory,
and to have a number of looms actually at
work, in order to shew their operation, and
to try different experiments for the purpose
of bringing them to perfection.

    We cannot close this portion of our sub
ject without some expression of sympathy
for the hard lot of the unfortunate Mr. Rad-
cliffe. His great ingenuity and services to
the country deserved a better return than
the neglect and discouragement he expe
rienced; and he, alas! was one of those
instances of unrewarded talents that have

solely contributed to the aggrandizement of
others. The author was in correspondence,
some years since, with Mr. RadclifFe, on the
236  MEMOIR OF

subject of this memoir, and was much grati
fied by the candour and liberality with
which he did ample justice to the value of

Dr. Cartwright's invention. It was painful

to learn that he had himself reaped so little
advantage from improvements that had
greatly facilitated the use of the power-
loom ; and it was no less painful to feel con
scious of the utter inability to forward and
assist his claims to national remuneration.

    From other evidence brought forward, it
appeared that Dr. Cartwright had expended
between thirty and forty thousand pounds
in prosecuting and bringing his mechanical

inventions to perfection.

    In the following year, a grant of ten
thousand pounds was made, on the part of
 His Majesty's government, to Dr. Cartwright,
 "for the good service he had rendered the
 public by his invention of weaving."
              DR. CARTWRIGHT.  237

It cannot be inconsistent with a liberal

economy for a government to encourage

ingenuity, which for want of support might

be lost to the public; at the same time a

government ought not to be called upon to

indemnify individuals for losses and expen

diture incurred in speculations, which

(though eventually advantageous to the

public) had been undertaken solely with a

view of profit to themselves. But in the

instance of Dr. Cartwright, compensation,

rather than remuneration, was the prin

ciple on which he sought the attention of the

legislature.  A system of intimidation,

against which the laws of his country had

failed to protect him, had, for a series of

years, prevented a fair trial being made of

his machinery for weaving; and, in addition

to the disappointment of his reasonable ex

pectations of gain, a prejudice had also been

created against the invention itself, which
238  MEMOIR OF

nothing but an extraordinary combination
of circumstances could finally have over
come. This prejudice had a tendency to
deprive him of the credit of the invention.

It had been hastily concluded that the

machine was inefficient, because it had not
been adopted ; and when, on being tried, it
was found to succeed, its success was attri
buted wholly to the alterations engrafted
upon it. Indeed, there is great reason to
believe, that but for this public recognition
from the legislature, Dr. Cartwright's claim,
even to the invention of the power-loom,

would not have been generally admitted,
although at the time of his application to
parliament there does not appear to have
been the slightest attempt made to invali
date his claim to originality on the part of
those to whom the chief merit of the inven

tion has subsequently been ascribed.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                                239

Admitting, however, that the grant to

Dr. Cartwright was conferred as a reward

to ingenuity, it ought, in justice to those
members of His Majesty's Government who

it,

                           It it
proposed to.be observed, that was not

incautiously or lightly made.     was not

until two years after the presentation to the

first lord of the Treasury, of the memorial
from Manchester, that Mr. Perceval pro

posed in the House of Commons any remu

neration to Dr. Cartwright; and he, in the

meantime, had been required to produce satis

factory evidence in support of his allegations,

whilst to his rivals, or opponents, ample op

portunity had been given to rebut them.

The gratitude with which Dr. Cartwright

received this act of justice, was heightened

by
                              a

                                           it
the reflection that he owed to the

liberal feelings of ministry, to whose lead

ing members he was personally unknown,
240  MEMOIR OF

but to whom it was not unknown that his

principal associates and connexions were
chiefly amongst their political opponents.

    The event has more than justified the
view which the legislature of 1809 was led
to form of the importance of the invention
of the power-loom. The warmest advocate
for mechanical enterprise, the most sanguine
believer in its success, could hardly have
anticipated that more than one hundred
thousand power-looms should be employed
in the island of Great Britain alone. Yet

such, at the present time, is the astonishing
fact ; and these looms, now brought, by the
incessant application of ingenuity, to an
extreme degree of perfection, are producing
yearly millions of pieces of almost every
variety of fabric that can be applied to the
useful or ornamental clothing of mankind.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  241

              CHAPTER VIII.

Having received the sum awarded by parlia
ment, and being now sixty-six years of age,
Dr. Cartwright was anxious to pass the
remainder of his life in retirement and tran
quillity ; and having decided on settling in
Kent, he purchased a small farm at Hol-

landen, situated between Sevenoaks and

Tunbridge. At this place he spent the last

years of his existence, amusing himself with
various experiments in agriculture, chemis
try, and mechanics, and occupied, to the

                              »
242  MEMOIR OF

utmost of his ability, in promoting the wel
fare of his fellow-creatures.

    To the poor he was always a kind and
judicious adviser, and as a magistrate, able
and enlightened. His friendly assistance in
the church was always at the service of the
neighbouring clergy ; and we may be allowed
in this place to remark, that his manner of
performing his clerical duties was truly
solemn and impressive.

   In society no man was ever more popular ;
his conversation, full of information, con

veyed in a lively and pleasing manner, was
entirely free from assumption or dogmatism ;
and the kindness and simplicity of his de
portment made his company agreeable to all,
especially to the young, for whom, in com
mon with many other men of superior genius
and attainments, he had a particular predi

lection. In the " Life of Crabbe," (vol. i.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.      243

pp. 135, 136,) there is a very appropriate

description of Dr. Cartwright, which is the

more remarkable, as it shews the impression

he made on the writer, then a child of six

or seven years old :-- " During my father's

residence at Stratherne," says the Eev.

George Crabbe, " and also at his other coun

try places, he very rarely paid or received

visits except in his clerical capacity; but

there was one friend, whose expanding ver

satility of mind and rare colloquial talents

made him a most welcome visitor, and he

was a frequent one.  I allude to Dr.

Edmund Cartwright, a poet and mechanist

of no small eminence, who at this period was

the incumbent of Goadby, and occasionally

lived there, though his principal residence

was at Doncaster, where vast machines were

worked under his direction. Few persons

could tell a good story so well --no man could

m2
244  MEMOIR OF

Imake more of a trite one.  can just re

member him; the portly, dignified old

gentleman of the last generation --grave

and polite, but full of humour and spirit."

About 1809, Dr. Cartwright communi

cated to the Board of Agriculture an account

of some experiments on the effects of sugar

in fattening sheep. He gave to fifteen

sheep four ounces of sugar each per diem,
mixed with other food, and in the short

space of twenty-eight days found that, on
the average, they had increased one-fifth in
weight, and that two of them had gained
upwards of one-fourth. He suggested that
the duty might be deducted on sugar thus

applied, and that to protect the revenue,
the sugar might be rendered useless for other

purposes by mixing it with linseed, palm, or

train oils, assafoetida, charcoal, or other sub

stances, which, though nauseous to the
DR. CARTWRIGIIT.  245

human palate, were found not to diminish

the zest with which the sheep devoured the

sugar. He thus sums up his conclusions :--
   " 1. That sugar may be given with great

advantage to sheep, if not confined, especially
if they have access to green food, however

small in quantity.

   " 2. That sugar may be given to them,

with every prospect of a beneficial effect, in

the quantity of four ounces per day to each

sheep.

   "3. That sugar, supposing it to be pur
chased at 4d. per lb. (which it might be, if

duty free), would, at the rate of four ounces
per day, be paid for in a return of flesh,

exclusive of the advantage of expeditious

feeding, and the benefit to be derived from

the manure.

   " 4. That six ounces per day to each

sheep exceeds the maximum that can be

given with the best advantage.
246  MEMOIR OF

" 5. That the advantage of stall-feeding

sheep altogether upon sugar and dry food,

of whatever nature that food may be, is

extremely problematical."

From this period of Dr. Cartwright's

residence at Hollanden, his mechanical pur

suits were chiefly speculative, and his habits

those of a retired rather than a practical

philosopher; yet there is abundant proof

that the rust of old age never settled on his

brilliant faculties, and a few extracts from

his letters will shew the constant vigour and

activity, as well as that singular elasticity

and cheerfulness of spirit, which years of

disappointment and anxiety had failed to

extinguish or repress.

Among his chief correspondents was his

old friend, Dr. Pearson, an eminent physi

cian, particularly distinguished for his

knowledge of chemistry, to whom he ad
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                              247

dressed the following playful invitation,

which, like all his poetical effusions, was

composed with a readiness and facility

almost entitling them to be considered as

extemporaneous :--

                    "4th June, 1812.

"For one short day the world forego,
     Its noise and cares and follies flee--

That short unclouded day bestow

On friendship, solitude, and me.

" For you my Susan shall provide

    A barn-door fowl, a brace of fish,

  And, what was once old England's fare,

      Roast beef on a galvanic dish.

" Though with no costly viands graced,
      Disdain not then my board to share;

  Wine, suited to your classic taste,
      Shall compensate for homely fare.

" The Teian grapes' nectarious juice
      That once Anacreon quaffed, is mine :

 IWere mine the power, would produce

      Anacreon's wit as well as wine.
248  MEMOIR OF

"And yet, who knows what wine may do?

     Wine might Anacreon's wit supply;
  Tipsy, he might have rivall'd you--

     When sober, been as dull as I."

                  " TO DR. PEARSON.

                                           " 1st Jan. 1814.

    " As you tell me you set a value on what

I send you, here then, 7iostrorum candide

judex, follows --

"A BIRTHDAY SOLILOQUY at SEVENTY.

         " To fame and to fortune adieu !

                The toils of ambition are o'er ;

           Let folly these phantoms pursue,

        I now will be cheated no more.

     "Resignation be mine, and repose,
           So shall life be unclouded at last;

      IAnd while prepare for its close
        I will think, with a smile, on the past.

     " Yet, as to this world must be given

           Some part of life's limited span,
       The thoughts that ascend not to Heaven

          I'll give to the service of man."
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                249

" TO THE REV. GEORGE CRABBE.

                                                « 30th Aug. 1817.

   " My dear Sir, --In rummaging over an

Iold magazine, learned that your son, and,
I presume, my godson, was married to one

Iof the belles of Trowbridge.  need not say,

that both he and you, and the lady of his

choice, have all of you my best wishes and

congratulations.  I had lately a letter from

my old friend and neighbour, Thomas Shaw,
of Waltham, who tells me his family consists
of seven children, all doing and likely to

do well, and that they have presented him

with as many grandchildren.    I have at

present ten, and expect an increase every

day. You will be reckoning your treasures
of this sort soon; as such riches increase,

We may be permitted to set our affections
Iupon them.
                  saw, by the papers, that you

were one of the officiating priests of Apollo

                  M3
250           MEMOIR OF

at the apotheosis of Kemble ; the ode which

was recited, and which contained a few bril

liant stanzas, was attributed to Campbell.

I have seen two or three short extracts from

Lalla Kookh, which were exquisite ; the

Iwhole poem, shall probably not see ; two

guinea volumes are above my purchase, and

I live so retired and unconnected with lite

Irary society, that see no books but what

I buy. Have you published anything lately ?

IIf you have, let me know it.  have made

great additions to my prophetic epistle ; but

Ibefore have an opportunity of publishing

the events foretels will become matter
it,
of history."
                 it

                    I
                                                                                2,
          "TO SIR STAMFORD RAFFLES.

                                                "Feb. 1819.

   " Availing myself of the permission you
gave me, in the letter had the honour of
DR. CARTWRIGHT.           251

receiving from you on your departure from

IPortsmouth for Sumatra,  again address

you, on the subject of transporting into your

own country the seeds of such plants as

there is a probability of being naturalized
here, and as are likely to be useful in the

garden, especially the cottager's garden, or

Iin agriculture. And here must observe,

that the seeds of plants already known and
cultivated will be acceptable, as they may

be the means of introducing new and im

proved varieties, even though they be the

seeds of plants originally transported from

Europe. Vegetables, like animals, after a

very few years of naturalization, will acquire

from their new situation new habits and

propensities, which, as it may happen, will

be more or less valuable than the parent

Istock that they were derived from. This

know from experience. Four or five years
252  MEMOIR OF

Iago was indebted to the kindness of Lord

Charles Somerset for some garden seeds
from the Cape, almost all of which were
evidently of European extraction, and yet
the greater part of them differed, and most
of them for the better, from those of the
same family here. Early ripening, in arti
cles of field culture, is a great desideratum
in this climate, in which the hopes of the

agriculturist are frequently disappointed by
a late and protracted harvest. Precocity,

I have observed, is one of the properties

which plants generally acquire by having
had a removal into a warmer climate than
that of which they are natives, and which
they retain after they are brought back.
Again, even those plants which are common
to every country, and partake of the same
nature, will arrive at maturity at an earlier
or later period, accordingly as they are cul-
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  253

tivated in a climate and soil more or less

genial ; and this disposition they will

retain, for a few years at least, under very

unfavourable circumstances. These con

siderations make me wish for specimens of

wheat, peas, beans, vetches, &c., if such are

to be met with ; as also seeds of such grasses

as appear to be hardy and productive, and
thrive in cool situations. You will now

perceive, sir, what my ideas and wishes are

Irelative to the matters have stated. You

will confer a lasting obligation upon me, and

Ieventually, trust, on the public, in whose
Iservice am labouring, by furnishing me

with a very small packet of seeds (a pint of
each, more or less, would be sufficient) of
such plants as you think may be beneficially
introduced into the British Isles.

  I" am well aware that by most men in

your situation, a request like the present
254            MEMOIR OF

would be deemed both obtrusive and imper

Itinent ; but am under no such apprehensions
Ifrom you, and if rightly understand your

character, it will be some satisfaction to you

to contribute to the innocent gratification of

an individual, even though a stranger to

you. Wishing, however, to be in some

degree known to you, not personally --my
advanced age precluding that expectation --

Iyet by something, at least, that have done,
I have some pleasure in acquainting you,

that in the course of my agricultural experi

Iments last summer, had the singular good

fortune to discover an absolute remedy for

the mildew in wheat --cheap, and of easy

Iapplication.  need not point out to you

the incalculable benefit this discovery must

be both to the growers of wheat and toof,

every individual consumer of that indispen

sable article of human food; our defective
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  255

crops being more frequently occasioned by-
mildew than by all other causes combined.

    " The intelligence of your spirited re

monstrances and protest against the aggres
sions of the Dutch reached England a few
posts ago, and were yesterday the subject of

discussion in the House of Lords. That

your conduct, on this occasion, has added to
the great estimation in which your name is
already held, you will learn from higher
authority than mine. From the loose man
ner in which our diplomatists have drawn
up the treaty between this country and the
Netherlands, there is reason to fear that the
native princes of Java will not be suffered
to realize the prospects of happiness and
independence which your humane and en
lightened policy had taught them to look
forward to.

            I" am, Sir, &c. &c.,

                        " Edmund Cartwright;
256      MEMOIR OF

" P.S Since you left England, the for

gery of bank-notes has increased to an
alarming degree, in consequence of which,
during the last session of parliament, a
committee was appointed to inquire into the

best means of preventing it. I, amongst

Iothers, suggested an idea to them, which

thought might answer the purpose. My

suggestion was, for the Bank to send a con

fidential paper-maker of their own into the

East Indies, who, combining his own know

ledge and secrets of the art with the practice
of the East, operating upon materials un

known in Europe, might produce a paper

most difficult of imitation, and which would

differ so much from paper manufactured

here, as to be distinguishable from it at first

sight."
           DE. CARTWRIGHT.         257

"TO MAJOR CARTWRIGHT.

                                          "24th April, 1819.

   " My dear Brother, -- In a letter which

I received some time ago, from a friend in
ILondon, was told that he had lately seen

you, and that he thought you did not look

Iso well as usual ; but as have received two

or three letters from Frances, who always

Igave a good account of you, presume my

Icorrespondent was mistaken.  this day

entered my seventy-seventh year, in as good

Ihealth and spirits, thank God, as have

done on any one birthday for the last half

Icentury.  am moving about upon my farm

from eight o'clock in the morning till four

in the afternoon, without suffering the least

Ifrom fatigue.  sent in my claim to the

Board of Agriculture for their premium for

a cure for the mildew on wheat, but do not

Iyet know whether it is admitted.  do not
258  MEMOIR OF

Iknow whether ever mentioned to you a

machine for dibbling or planting wheat,

Iwhich have brought to great perfection.
I have a very material improvement on the

stocks, respecting ploughs and wheel car

Iriages, but of this shall say nothing till I

Ihave brought it to the proof, which hope

to be able to do very shortly, when you
shall be immediately apprized of the result,

whether favourable or not.

   " Have you seen Lord John Russell's let

ter to Lord Holland ; and what do you, and
other judges, think of it? The first time

you go by Harding's, No. 36, St. James' -

Istreet, shall thank you to desire he will

send me ' Katcliff's Survey of Flanders,' as

soon as published.

           I" am, dear Brother,

                     " Affectionately yours,
                        " Edmund Cartweight."
DR. CARTAVRIGHT.        259

                   "TO DR. PEARSON.

                                            " Sept. 4th, 1820.

   " My dear Sir, -- Though the complaint

Iwhich mentioned in my last is happily
Iremoved, have had a return of the bile,

as you will see by the following epigram :--

                "EQUAL JUSTICE.

If" such criminal acts have her conduct pervaded

As are charged, on the Queen, let her e'en be de

        graded;

IYet this will say--neither treason nor slander --

What is sauce for the goose should be sauce for the

        gander.

IThe remainder of my letter shall devote

to something more important than epigrams

or Attic salt, should they contain any. You

Imay recollect the experiment that made

two years ago with salt, as a remedy for

Ithe mildew on wheat.*  have this year

* See " Philosophical Magazine," vol. lvi., p. 395.
260  MEMOIR OF

repeated it with the most unequivocal suc
cess, and this in one instance under cir

cumstances which probably may never

Irecur. Last year discovered a few ears

of wheat which appeared to be a new and

Iimproved variety. These saved; and by

dibbling them in, grain by grain, they ex
tended over a bed four feet wide and nearly

one hundred yards long. Wishing to force

as good a crop as possible, the ground was

previously manured very highly ; and in
Spring, it was dressed over more than once
with a thick coat of soot. The consequence
was, it grew as luxuriously as you may have
observed wheat that has accidentally grown

on a dunghill, and which is always mildewed
in the extreme, so as to rot on the ground
without bringing a single grain to maturity.

IAs soon as perceived the mildew, which

was at a much earlier period than it usually
             DR. CARTWRIGHT.  261

appears, for. the straw was quite in a green

Istate, dressed it with salt and water, which

immediately checked the disease. Fearing,

however, that it might be too malignant for

a single dressing, the remedy was repeated.

I am happy to say the crop is completely
Isaved, and have no doubt will produce as

marketable corn as the rest of the field. As

I look upon this discovery as most highly

Iimportant,  wish to give it all possible

publicity. If you think the Koyal Society

would give attention to the subject, though

it does not fall within the general scope of

the matters discussed by that body at the

Ipresent day, will furnish you with a more

detailed account of the business, and of the

process by which the remedy is applied.
Since the reduction of the duty on salt for

agricultural purposes, the expense is a mere

nothing."
262  MEMOIR OF

     "TO DR. PEARSON.

     " Oct. 21st, 1820.

"It Iis a received opinion,  am told,

that Sir Humphry Davy will be the new

President of the Royal Society. Should

Ithat be the case, should feel an ambition

Ito become one of its members, which

should not do, were the person placed at the

head of it elevated to the situation chiefly

Ifrom his rank. Will you instruct me how

am to proceed in offering myself a candi

I Idate?
     must be proposed, presume, by

Itwo or three of the members. Were to

choose who should propose me, it should be

Sir Humphry Davy, Mr. Davies Gilbert,

and yourself. My title to offer myself as a

candidate is founded on my discovery of the

remedy for the mildew on wheat, without

exception one of the most important dis

coveries of modern times, and in a pecuniary
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  263

view, as it respects the country at large,
without comparison the most important.
Had this discovery fortunately been known
and acted upon in the years 1795 and 1800
(emphatically called the years of scarcity),
the distresses of those years would probably
never have been heard of."

   In the latter end of the year 1 820, Dr.

Cartwright had the satisfaction of receiving
the following interesting letters from Sir

Stamford Raffles :--

  " TO THE REV. EDMUND CARTWRIGHT, D.D.

                    " Fort Marlbro', 8th April, 1820.

   " Dear Sir, -- It was only on my return
Ifrom Bencoolen, that had the pleasure to

receive your letter of the 2nd February,

I1819; and lose no time in assuring you,

that it will afford me infinite pleasure to
264  MEMOIR OF

meet your wishes, and contribute all that

lies in my power to the success of your views

and speculations. In the present state of
Sumatra, of which so large a portion still

remains in a state of nature, there is a far

wider field for the naturalist than the horti

Iculturist; and could with greater ease

send you twenty new and undescribed plants,

Ithan a pint of any well-known seed.  will,

however, do my best, and send you by every

opportunity a small parcel of those most

likely to interest you. The present oppor

tunity was not foreseen, and the ship only

remains a few hours, therefore you must be
content with my present communication, as

an earnest or indication of what may come

hereafter.

   " So little seems to be known in Europe

respecting the culture of dry rice, and as it

is not impossible this important grain may
DR. CARTWRIGIIT.                    265

Ibe introduced into the British Isles, take

the liberty of sending you a small quantity

for seed. It is grown on the hills, and

generally on lands recently cleared from

primitive forest ; the ground is not ploughed,
but on the approach of the rainy season
small holes are made with a stick, and two

grains of seed thrown in ; the rice is then

left to itself, until reaped. It is the prin

cipal cultivation of Sumatra, particularly in
the mountains, where the soil is richer and
the climate colder than below. The soil is

generally enriched by the ashes of the newly-

Icleared forest burnt on the spot.  also

send you a specimen of the rice : it is con

sidered full twenty per cent, better than the

lowland, or irrigated rice, and bears a pro

portionate high price ; it is far more nutri

tious, and less likely to perish.

   " Of wheat, barley, or oats, we have

N

                                                *
266  MEMOIR OF

Inone ; nor am aware of any grasses which

are cultivated by seed. In these rich and

luxuriant countries we find more trouble in

restraining and checking nature, than in

nursing and improving the gifts which she

Ispontaneously presents to us.  will, how

ever, endeavour, at some future period, to

collect the seeds of the grasses we most

esteem.

   " Of vetches and oil-giving plants we

have an extensive variety; few of them

have yet been cultivated in England; the

French bean may be an exception.

  I" have taken measures for sending you,

from the upper provinces of Bengal, collec

tions of wheat, oats, peas, &c. ; and though

these may be long in coming to hand, they

I Iwill, hope, be acceptable.  shall also re

quest a friend of mine at the Cape to send

you, by the present opportunity, whatever
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                          267

Iis likely to interest you from thence.  am

aware you have already received supplies

from that quarter through Lord Charles
Somerset, but duplicates will, no doubt, be

useful, and there may be yet many plants

there which you would desire to have.

  I" am here amid groves of nutmegs, cloves,

cassia, benzoin, camphor, &c. ; and if any

of these exotics are likely to prove interest

ing, pray say so.

  I" beg you to accept my best acknow

ledgments for your highly flattering, but no

less acceptable notice of my exertions in re

pelling Dutch aggression. Our government

certainly made a sad mistake in giving up

Java at all.
   " Next to Great Britain, Java
a                                 with
                                            is,

                                                      is
out exception, the finest island in the world

--almost fairy land. All we can do now

to prevent the Dutch from going even beyond

                        n2
268  MEMOIR OF

what was intended to be restored by that
convention ; fortunately, they evinced their
disposition and greediness too soon, and we
may be able to save something out of the
wreck. You will, no doubt, have heard of

my new establishment at Singapore, empha
tically called by the natives, the Poosab, or

navel of the Malay countries ; it secures all

our commercial interests at little or no ex

Ipense; and am happy to say, that this

decisive measure has had its full effect in
checking our rivals. They have been driven
out of Palembang and Pihio, and the island
of Banca is nearly independent of their
authority. Their establishments on Borneo

are in a precarious state, and if our mi

nisters do not make a second blunder at

home they will soon be confined within
their proper limits, Java and the Moluccas.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  269

I" shall take an early opportunity of

writing to you respecting your plan for

bank notes. The subject requires some at

Itention, and have not a moment to spare at

present. The present opportunity of writing
direct is by the ship ' Borneo,' the first and

only ship built on the island so called. She

was constructed during my administration

Iin Java, and once hoped she might have

excited the attention of our government,

and induced the English to patronize and

protect that important country. She is

450 tons burthen, and was built some miles

inland, in the forest where the timbers were

supplied. The commander, Captain Ross,

no builder by profession, and without

scientific or European assistance, raised her

from the stocks. As long as she floats and

Ibears her present name, she will, think,
270  MEMOIR OF

remind us of what we have lost, if not of

our folly in losing it.

         I" remain, my dear Sir,

                     " Yours faithfully,
                            " T. S. Raffles."

            " TO DR. CARTWKIGHT.

                       " Bencoolen, 12th April, 1820.

  " My dear Sir, --I will now reply to that

part of your letter respecting the means
which this country may afford in aid of
your plan for preventing forgery on the
Bank. The idea appears to me a good one,

and capable of easy application. In Java

we have a very excellent material for paper

in the Morus papyrifera ; but as the plant is
extensively cultivated, and that colony is
now in other hands, we could not answer for
the quantity that might be introduced into
Europe. The same objection may, perhaps,
DR. CART WRIGHT.  271

apply to the various materials used for the
purpose in China; but the plant recently
discovered in Nepaul, and described by my

Ifriend, Dr. Wallich, may, think, answer

the purpose well. The enclosed paper con
tains Dr. Wallich's observations on the

plant, and the valuable material it furnishes

for paper. Being a native of the highest
regions of India, and not yet generally culti

vated, it would be an easy matter for the

East India Company to monopolize the
whole of the produce, and to prevent the
material from falling into other hands than

that of the Bank. The paper which is
made from this material is remarkable for

its toughness ; and that you may judge of its

Isuperiority in this respect, enclose an en

graving of the flower on the paper itself.

It is intended, with the accompanying de

scription by Dr. Wallich, for publication in
272    MEMOIR OF

the next number of the ' Asiatic Researches,'if

but its receipt by you may be interesting.*     it,

I understand Dr. Wallich had it in contemS.

plation to send a quantity of the paper, as

well as of the material for making home

to the Court of Directors, and you apply
at the India House, you may possibly obtain

further information on the subject.

                   " Yours, very truly,
                              " T. Raffles."

*    Lord Amherst, on going out to India about

    athree years afterwards, kindly undertook to procure
some of the seeds of this plant for Dr. Cartwright,

who was desirous to ascertain, by experiment, whe
ther plant which flourishes in those parts of Nepaul

where snow lies, and where oaks are produced, might
grow well in our own country. Dr. Cartwright had

requested that the seeds might be packed in raw

sugar, as the best means of preserving their vegeta

tive quality; and this method appears to be of tried

efficacy. The plant in question  is     Daphne, closely
                                     a

allied to D. cannabina of Loureira.
DR. CART WRIGHT.  273

                CHAPTER IX.

Dr. Bardsley's zealous and friendly exer
tion's in behalf of Dr. Cartwright's claims
to parliamentary remuneration have been

already mentioned. It will not, therefore,

be matter of surprise, that one whose heart
was so warm and generous should not only

feel the obligation, but delight to own it;

for Dr. Cartwright, though very apt to for
get the favours he bestowed on others, could
never forget those which he had received
himself.

                                  if 3
274-  MEMOIR OF

   In a letter addressed to this gentlemanit,

on the 20th Nov. 1820, Dr. Cartwright

says, " The world is more your debtor than

you are aware of ; the leisure and indepen

Idence, for which was mainly indebted to
Iyour friendship, will enable me, as hope,
Ito benefit the public to an extent which

could never have foreseen." He then men

tions his experiments in the application of

human power, and proceeds to inform his

correspondent of his success in using salt and

water as a remedy for mildew. " There are

two methods," says he, "in applying it.*

Two men to spread the mixture, and one to

supply them with will get over four acres

   * Objections have been made to the difficulty of
this operation; but those who have witnessed the
easy method of distributing liquid manure over the
fields in Germany and Switzerland, will not, perhaps*
be inclined to raise this objection.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                 275

in a day; six or eight bushels of salt are

sufficient for an acre, the expense of which
is trifling at the price for which it can be

procured for farming purposes. It is paid

for in the improvement of the manure made

from the salted straw. The mildew on

wheat is ascertained to be a parasitical

plant, of the fungus kind. The principal

constituent in the composition of fungi being

water (witness the manufactory of mushroom
catsup), when brought in contact with the
salt, their aqueous particles are absorbed by

the salt, and the fungi immediately die.

Salt has no effect upon the wheat at the

time the mildew is upon  it,

                               a
                                                    is
                         as the straw

then fibrous, and on fibre, whether vegetable

or animal, salt acts rather as  preservative
than otherwise."

   In 1819, Dr. C. had communicated to
the " Philosophical Magazine," (vol. lift
276  MEMOIR OF

p. 425,) an account of a locomotive carriage
which he had constructed, to be worked by
human power. On the axle of the driving
wheels were two cranks, connected with
treadles, worked by each foot of the driver
alternately. By means of shoulder-straps
affixed to the carriage, the operator could,
when necessary, apply a considerable mus
cular force, in addition to his absolute
weight, to the propulsion of the vehicle.
During the three following years, Dr. Cart-
wright employed this carriage for the con
veyance of necessaries from the neighbour
ing market towns, and, occasionally, even

from London. Indeed, it would appear,

from the following letter, that he had
brought it to a considerable degree of per
fection.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                       277

                 " TO DR. BARDSLEY.

                                      " April 24th, 1822.

   " This is a memorable day with me, and

I therefore dedicate part of it to you, to

whose friendship my latter years are in

debted for a considerable share of their

comfort and independence.

  I" On this day enter my eightieth year.
IThis, however, do, in common with thou

sands ; but what makes it particularly me

morable that on this day have completed
is,

     aI
                a
                          a
                 I
my invention of carriage to go without

horses, which call centaur carriage.

Two men took cart from my house (the
cart and its load weighing sixteen cwt.),
                                              it a
distance of twenty-seven miles  in    day, and

                                   a

up two very long and steep hills. Since

then have greatly improved upon it. It
is

   I
                           I
now so constructed, that can give
278               MEMOIR OF

Iwhat speed please. Its greatest advan
I Itage, am of opinion --for have not yet

had the opportunity of absolutely ascertain

ing it--will be in going fast ; for the exertion

of the men is the same, whether the carriage

goes fast or slow, its speed depending on its
internal mechanism. This carriage will be

particularly useful in mercantile situations.

   " My youngest daughter is a good litho-

Igraphist, and when go to town I will get

her to make some drawings of the carriage,

to explain its mechanism, a copy of which

I will send you, and which you may put

into Joe Taylor's hands ; it may possibly be

of use to him.    time  ago,  when  I was

   " Some little

labouring at this business, the following
lines occurred to me, by which you will see
that, though the powers of body and mind
DR. CARTWRtGHT.  279

may be giving way, my perseverance is not

materially abated: --

" Since even Newton owns, that all he wrought

' Was due to industry and patient thought;'

IWhat shall restrain the impulse that feel
ITo forward, as may, the public weal;

By his example fired, to break away,
In quest of truth, through darkness into day?
He tried, on venturous wing, the loftiest flight --

IAn eagle soaring to the fount of light;
   cleave to earth, to earth-born arts confined,

A worm of science of the humblest kind !

Our powers, though wide apart as earth and heaven,
For different purposes alike were given;
Though mine the arena of inglorious fame,

IWhere pride and folly would the strife disclaim,

With mind unwearied, still will engage,

IIn spite of failing vigour and of age,

Nor quit the conflict till quit the stage;

Or if in idleness my life shall close,

May well-earned victory justify repose.

   " Have you heard anything of a new Eoyal

Society, instituted by the King, to which

he gives* or has promised to give, annually,
280           MEMOIR OF

1000/. It is called the Koyal Society of

ILiterature.  am a member of it; our

president is the Bishop of St. David's.

There are premiums given of one hundred

guineas for the best poem, one for the best

dissertation on the Greek language, and

another for the best dissertation on the

character of Homer. Seventeen candidates,

I hear, have started for the two others.

The poetical premium was last year awarded

to Mrs. Hemans ; the subject, in every sense,

I should have thought a barren one; but

Iher poem,  am told--for it has not yet

reached me-- is very beautiful. In your

Inext letter you will, hope, give a better

account of yourself than you did in your

last. It will give you pleasure to hear that

it has pleased God to continue to me the

Isame good health that have enjoyed for

years past, with little or no sensible abate-
        DR. CART WRIGHT.  281

ment. Mrs. C. sends her kindest remem

Ibrances, and am, dear sir,

                " Most faithfully yours,
                        " Edmund Cartwright."

In September, 1822, Dr. Cartwright

visited Dover, and writing from thence to
"IDr. Bardsley, he says,
                          am not a little

gratified by the partial view you take of

my endeavours to make myself useful to

the world so long as it shall please God

Ito continue me in it.  came here for the

benefit of warm sea-bathing, having been

much unhinged by the hot weather in Au

Igust.  have only bathed twice, and am

now as stout again as ever. In a conver

I Isation had with the bath man, learned

that to fill his cistern in a given time was

Ifull work for two athletic men ; told him

of my principle of exerting human power,
282  MEMOIR OF

and that if he would furnish me with a

Iworkman, would shew him how to apply

it to his pump. In the course of a day the

work was finished, and now an active lad
will do the business in half the usual time,

and, comparatively speaking, with very

little fatigue. If the success of this expe

riment should lead to the building of a

vessel to be navigated upon the same prin
ciple, you will have the opportunity of
going next year to Calais without the risk

of fire or explosion, or the danger of being

sunk or overset; for if the vessel is con

Istructed as propose, to sink or overset it

will be, morally speaking, impossible. Mrs.

ICartwright and are delighted with the

prospect of shewing you what a comfortable

spot your kindness has contributed to place

us in. It will not be more than twenty

miles out of the direct road from London
DR. CARTWRIGHT.                            283

Ito Dover, and am willing to believe you

will find the air of Hollanden of great

benefit to Mrs. Bardsley and yourself; of

I Iits salubrity, as far as am concerned,
Ican speak in the highest terms, and do

not think, considering the delicate state

of health Mrs. Cartwright has been in for

some years, that she could have been better

anywhere else. The other friend to whom

I feel indebted, jointly with yourself, for

the ease and comfort of my present existence,

was Hawkins Browne, whose weight and

influence carried the business of which you

laid the foundation stone through the House

of Commons. A posthumous work of his

has lately been published, entitled ' Essays,

I&c.,' printed for Cadell.       sent forit
                                             it,
merely for the purpose of keeping          as

memorial of dear and valued friend.
a
                              a

To my most agreeable surprise,   I       found
284            MEMOIR OF

Ifit a work of superlative merit.                               you

have not seen  It iIt,   would recommend to
                                         aa
your perusal.          is  the best connected
                                               it
chain of reasoning on the subject of morals         is it

and religion ever met with.                           it It

   "A few weeks ago sent in
     I                                   paper to the
          I

             I
               I
Royal Society, of which am member.

has been read, and, hear, been complimented

on its profundity and acuteness; but as

is  considered purely theoretical,                              not

admissible into their transactions, which

are confined to absolute facts, or truths that

     It                                  mathematical de

          is
              a

                                     by
can be substantiated

monstration, which mine certainly cannot,

at least by me.

   " new theory of the planetary sys

tem, as far as relates to the power by which

the planets are impelled round the sun. As

soon as get home, will send you copy
     I
                 it, I

                       I
                                                             a
of the paper. You will, hope, make all

due allowance for        as being an initiatory
DR. CARTWEIGHT.  285

treatise of a young philosopher just com

mencing his philosophical studies and career.*

   "A steam vessel arrived this morning from

Ramsgate on a party of pleasure, the pas

sengers above 300. They returned after
an early dinner. Just as they were ready
to set off, two others arrived from France :

they had all bands of music on board. The

day was uncommonly fine, the pier crowded
by spectators ; it was a most splendid sight,

I Iand must own felt no little gratification
Iin reflecting on the share had in con

tributing to the exhibition. You probably
do not know that Fulton, who first brought
steam navigation forward, was a most inti

Imate friend of mine, and of course lent

him all the assistance in my power, of which

   * In January, 1823, Dr. Cartwright received the
thanks of the Literary and Philosophical Society of
Manchester, for a paper on this subject, which was

read before the society.
286  MEMOIR OF

I believe there is one proof still in exist
Ience -- mean, a model, to shew how the

power of steam might be applied. When

I went to Woburn, I gave it to Lord John

Russell, then about ten or eleven years old,

as a plaything: it went by clock-work.

His lordship used frequently to amuse him
self with setting it afloat on the stew-ponds

in the garden. If it is not worn out, his

younger brothers may possibly amuse them

selves with it to this day."

                   "TO DR. BARDSLET.

                                          "24th April, 1823.

  I" My dear Sir, -- have this year com

pleted my eightieth year. In looking back

upon the events of my past life, and making

a fair estimate of its joys and sorrows, it

would be ungrateful to the Author of all
good, not to acknowledge that the good
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  287

has greatly overbalanced the evil ; neither

Ican forget for how much of that good
I have been, and still am, indebted to your

exertions. If you should feel induced to

become a member of our new society, en

Ititled the Royal Society of Literature,

should be proud to propose you. It does

not, however, appear clearly, to me at least,

what good it will do. Literature in the

Ipresent day wants no stimulus; rather

incline to the opinion that another Caliph

Omar is more wanting, to burn nine-tenths

of the books we already have.

   I" lately amused myself in drawing up

what may be called a bird's-eye view of

literature, taking my documents from the
' Dictionary of Living Authors,' from which

it appears that at the time it was compiled

(1816), there were between five and six

thousand authors then in existence, and
288  MEMOIR OF

that the family of living poets, of which

I have been for these twenty years the

father, consisted of no fewer than 704 !"
    Hitherto the subject of these memoirs

had enjoyed, as he himself gratefully ac
knowledges in the preceding letter to Dr.
Bardsley, an extraordinary exemption from
the usual infirmities of age. To this ex

emption, it is probable that early rising,

and the temperate habits of his life, had
mainly contributed. His fine intellectual
countenance still beamed with undiminished

intelligence ; his benevolent and placid cha
racter retained all its natural cheerfulness ;
while his firm step and healthful complexion
seemed to promise many years of prolonged
usefulness and activity.

   But we are now approaching the period
when his robust constitution began to shew
symptoms of increasing weakness, and not-
   DR. CARTWRIGHT.                       289

withstanding the watchful attention and
solicitude which Mrs. Cartwright bestowed
on his declining health, it was evident that
the failure was rapid, and that no human
power could arrest its progress.

    Surely, in this case, the sudden transition
may be considered as a merciful dispensation,
when we compare it with those instances
in which imbecility, fretfulness, and suffer
ing accompany a lengthened existence, and
when, as the great moralist expresses

     " Superfluous lags the veteran on the stage."*
                                         a:
Not so our veteran mechanic, who in July
                                                it,
1823, within three months of his lamented
death, writes thus to Dr. Pearson --                     a

   " My dear Sir,-- Since wrote last to
                      by I
you, have luckily discovered method
I

of working an engine      explosion, in

* See " Johnson's Vanity of Human Wishes."

   0
290           MEMOIR OF

way to be perfectly secure from danger,

and completely effectual. You will be sur

Iprised when tell you it is by gunpowder.

To give continuous action to that which

is instantaneous --or, in other words, to con

trol the velocity of such an exploding body

as gunpowder, so as to produce steady and

equable movement, hie labor hoc opus.

IThis, my dear sir, have (in theory) ac

complished; and by a contrivance, equally

certain as it is simple --more simple, indeed,

than the lock of a common gun. As soon

as a model of it is made (which, though it

Iwill not be one hour's work, may probably

not get these three days) you shall know

the result. Were gunpowder a dearer article

than it  is,  yet as the heavy expense of fuel

would be saved, my mode of working an

engine may possibly be as cheap, power for
            DR. CARTWRIGHT.  291

power, as steam. The weight of the engine,

an object for my purpose of great impor

tance, as well as the prime cost, and the

Ispace it would occupy, would not, appre

hend, be more than one fourth of Perkins's.

In my engine there will be this advantage --

its power may be increased or diminished

at pleasure, merely by regulating the feed

of powder ; and as the stress upon the engine
will lie in a small compass, that particular

part might be made to sustain any pressure

without inconvenience, and without any addi

tional load of metal worth speaking of.

IShould my ideas on this business be, as.

have every reason to think, correct, the

discovery will be one of the greatest im

Iportance.  had a vast deal more to have

written to you about, one thing or other,

I Ibut in truth am downright tired, and

            o2
292  MEMOIR OF

must walk out for a little fresh air into my

hay-field."

   In another letter to Dr. Pearson, written

about this time, Dr. Cartwright thus pur

sues the subject. " You are aware," says

he, "that if a sufficient quantity of gun

powder to make a complete stroke of the

piston were to be fired off at once, the

explosion would not only be highly dan

gerous, but, from its instantaneous effect,

equally useless. Now, by giving a subdued

and continuous action, the engine would be

perfectly under command, and its action

Isteady and equable.  will endeavour to

explain how this is produced. Supposing

it would require sixty grains of powder to

make a comple stroke of the piston, instead

of firing off the whole at once, it is to be

delivered by a contrivance something like

the drill-box of a sowing machine, only, we
DR. CARTWRIGHT.   293

will say, three grains at a time, and at

equal intervals, so that each individual ex

plosion would be but the one-twentieth part

of the whole. Supposing, therefore, the

stroke of the piston and its return to occupy

two seconds of time, there would be ten

minor explosions in a second, which, though

individually feeble, compared with the mass

of powder, yet the aggregate expansion and

force would be the same; but by being

subdivided, and the explosions following in

succession, the action of the engine would

be uniform and steady. In addition to

I Iwhat           will further
have said above,

observe, that the engine will be so con
structed as to make it next to impossible

that the powder should explode improperly ;

and even if it should, it will be so contrived,

that such an accident, supposing it to hap

Ipen, will be attended with no danger.
294          MEMOIR OF

intend to call my engine, par excellence,

the safety machine. You know very well,

my dear sir, that some of the most deadly

poisons, if administered judiciously, and in

small doses, become remedies both safe and

Ijudicious.  am only applying those prin

ciples and practices to mechanical bodies

which you have so often successfully applied

to bodies that are animated."

            "to de. bardsley.

                               " September 8th, 1823.

  I"My dear Sir, -- was glad to see by

the Manchester paper, which came to my

hand a few days ago, that you had with

drawn yourself from part of your professional

Ilabours, which hoped might be a prelude

to your withdrawing yourself altogether
from the whole of them, and that we shall

shortly see you in the south. My friend
         DR. CARTWRIGHT.      295

ITaylor, observe, has lately taken out a

patent.  IMost sincerely do   wish the

worthy old man may benefit himself by it.

I Iam not quite certain that  may not

follow his example,* having made a dis

covery of substituting gunpowder, in the

place of steam, for working engines. The

     * Notwithstanding this intention, Dr. Cart-
wright's opinion does not seem to have been favour

able to the protection afforded by patent rights.
This opinion, which was unfortunately derived from

his own experience, is thus humorously expressed
in a former letter to Dr. Bardsley, in September,

A1822: -- " patent is a feeble protection against the

rapacity, piracy, and theft of too many of the manu

Ifacturing class. There is scarcely an instance,

believe, of a patent being granted for any invention
of real value, against which attempts have not been

made to overthrow or evade it. It might be sup

posed that whatever was confessedly original, and
which had never been heard or thought of before,
would have some chance to escape the attacks of the
invader. No such thing. Were that eminent sur
296  MEMOIR OF^

whole contrivance is simplicity itself.  I

was afraid, a few days ago, that old age was

rapidly advancing upon me, as for the space

Iof forty-eight hours felt uncommonly weak
Iand debilitated. thank God, those feelings

have entirely left me."

A return of these symptoms induced Dr.

geon and anatomist, Mr. Carpue, who, it is said, Las

lately furnished some of his patients with supple

mental noses, to discover a method of putting an

additional pair of eyes into a man's head, and to take

Iout a patent for the discovery,  should not be sur

prised if forty witnesses were to come forward to

swear that it was not a new invention, ' for that they

had seen forty people, with forty extra pair of eyes in
their heads, forty years ago.' Far be it from me to

insinuate that forty pair of lawyers could be found

who would try to persuade a jury to give credit to
such evidence. As there are, however, many very
honourable men among the great body of manufac

turers, several indeed within my own knowledge,

I Iwhom would wish to benefit, recommend this

discovery to their notice."
DR. CART WRIGHT.  297

Cartwright to try the effect of change of
air and warm bathing. He accordingly re
moved to Hastings, on the 8th of October,
1823; but he no longer derived the same
benefit which he had experienced from his
excursion to Dover in the preceding year.

    Yet though the powers of life were thus
rapidly sinking, his mind was as strong as
ever; and it was afterwards remarked by
his nephew, the Kev. Henry Hodges, that
while occasionally sitting with his uncle on
the beach at Hastings, he was equally
charmed by the vigour and cheerfulness of
his conversation, and could scarcely bring
himself to believe that the hour was at
hand, when that harmonious voice would
be mute for ever.

    Aware of his own precarious state, Dr.
Cartwright bore his illness with that sweet
ness and submission which might have been

                          03
298  MEMOIR OF

expected from the character which we have
been endeavouring thus faintly to delineate,

and humbly resigning himself to the will

of his God and Saviour, he expired on the
30th of October, 1823. His remains

were interred in the church at Battle, in

Sussex.*

   * Of Dr. Cartwright's children, (all of whom were
by his first wife,) the following survived him--viz.,
1, Edmund Cartwright, M.A., F.S.A., Eector of
Earnley, author of the " Topographical History of

the Rape of Bramber, in Western Sussex," deceased

in 1833; 2, Mary, the wife of Henry Eustatius

Strickland, Esq. ; 3, Elizabeth, wife of the Kev.
John Penrose, well known under the name of " Mrs.

Markham," as the author of several popular works
for young persons --viz., Histories of England,

France, Poland, &c, deceased in 1837 ; and, 4,
Frances Dorothy, author of the " Life and Corres

pondence of Major Cartwright."

    His eldest brother, Captain George Cartwright,

was a man of strong and original cast of mind. A
        DR. CARTWRIGHT.     299

    Several brief notices of Dr. Cartwright

have already appeared in print --viz., in the

Annual Obituary for 1823, in the Gentle

man's Magazine for December in the same
year, in the Monthly Magazine for January,
1824, in the Dictionnaire desContemporains,
and in the Algemeine Deutsche Real En-

journal which he kept during a residence of many-

years on the coast of Labrador, was published in

three volumes, 4to, in 1792. It is written in a

pure and manly style, and gives a curious picture of
the hardships, voluntary on his part, of a hunter's
life, relieved by very interesting anecdotes of those
inoffensive and unsophisticated people, the Esqui

maux.

   Of his much attached brother John, well known as
Major Cartwright, we will merely observe, that the
same purity and disinterestedness influenced his pri
vate life that had guided his public conduct. In his
own family, from youth to age, he had been the
steadiest of friends and most affectionate of bro

thers.                   *
300  MEMOIR OF

cyclopadie, or Conversations Lexicon, pub

lished in 1827.* A short account of Dr.

Cartwright has also been published in a
volume of the Library of Entertaining
Knowledge, as well as another notice in the
Gallery of British Portraits. There is a brief
account of his discovery of the power-loom
in two articles in the Edinburgh Eeview
for June, 1827, and October, 1833, and
also a sketch of his life in the Penny Cyclo

paedia.

    The following letter was written soon
after Dr. Cartwright's death, by Dr. Bards-
ley, to Samuel Oldknow, Esq., but the

suggestion it contained was not carried into
effect :--

     * While travelling in Switzerland, in June,
1838, one of Dr. Cartwright's daughters had the
pleasure of finding at Berne, a short, but correct
biography of her father in the Pfennig Encyclopadie,
published at Leipzig, by C. E. Kollman.
DR. CARTWR1GHT.                  301

                                                Nov. 25, 1823.

"Dear Sir, --It is probable you will

have been informed by the public papers

of the rather sudden death of my excellent
friend, Dr. Cartwright. His varied talents,

his general acquirements, his inventive ge

nius, his gentleness and humility, have

scarcely ever been surpassed. Such a man

should not go down to the grave without a

Ipublic memorial of his worth !  find it is

the intention of his London friends to erect

a monument by subscription, setting forth

his various and useful discoveries, and his

constant endeavours to benefit mankind

during along and active life. Messrs. Smith,

the bankers, in London, have warmly entered

into this plan; and it is wished by them

that the names of some of the leading

commercial men of Manchester should grace
the list. Those gentlemen who kindly
302  MEMOIR OF

petitioned parliament for a remuneration

for his inventions and improvements, espe

cially in regard to the power-loom, might

have no objection to promote the erection

of such a monument to departed genius.

If this proposal meet with your approba

tion, perhaps you will do me the favour

to acquaint me with your intentions, and

lend your assistance to augment the sub

scription in your town and neighbourhood.

       I" remain, dear Sir,

                  " Yours, very respectfully,
                                  "S. A. Baedsley.

   " It is intended that the Manchester gen

tlemen should head the list."

   With this appropriate testimony of respect

to Dr. Cartwright's memory --a testimony

as creditable to the venerable writer, whose

zeal thus extended beyond the grave, as
DR. CARTWRIGHT.  303

it is just to the object of his unwearied

friendship, we close this brief and, we fear,
imperfect memoir of one of the most inge
nious and amiable of men.

   In a case where natural partiality may

be supposed to bias the judgment of the

writer, it seems almost presumptuous to

guide that of the reader; and yet we hope
we may be pardoned for pointing out, that
what appears particularly worthy of admi
ration in the character of Dr. Cartwright,
and which ought to be held out as deserving
of imitation, is that generous self-devotion,
that constant benevolence of purpose, which,
from youth to age, never lost sight of the
smallest available opportunity of promoting
the benefit of others.
        APPENDIX.

                           A.

ARMINE AND ELVIRA: A LEGENDARY TALE.

                                        (See p. 17.),

   The preceding Memoir has been chiefly devoted to the
history of Dr. Cartwright's mechanical and scientific
labours. But as some of our readers may wish to be
further informed as to his poetical powers, we have been
induced to republish one of his early productions, which,
though enjoying great popularity in its day, has been
long out of print. The reader will perceive that it belongs
to the refined and classic school of the last century, before
poets had ventured on those brilliant but eccentric flights
which attract so much favour at the present day.

                           PART L

       A hermit on the banks of Trent,

             Far from the world's bewildering maze,
          To humbler scenes of calm content

              Had fled from brighter, busier days.

       If haply from his guarded breast

              Should steal the unsuspected sigh,
         And memory, an unbidden guest,

           With former passions fill'd his eye ;
306      APPENDIX.

Then pious Hope and Duty praised
   The wisdom of th' Unerring Sway ;

And while his eye to heaven he raised,
   Its silent waters stole away.

Life's gayer ensigns once he bore --
  Ah 1 what avails the mournful tale ?

Suffice  when the scene was o'er,is it,

                       I
     He fled to the sequester'd vale.

     " What though the joys loved so well,!
        The charms," he cried, " that youth has known,?

     Fly from the hermit's lonely cell
        Yet not Armine still my own

" Yes, Armine, yes, thou valued youth       !!
   'Midst every grief thou still art mine

Dear pledge of Winifreda's truth,
   And solace of my life's decline
                          !

" Though from the world and worldly care
  My wearied mind mean to free,

Yet ev'ry hour that Heav'n can spare,
  My Armine, devote to thee.
         I
             I

" And sure that Heaven my hopes shall bless,a if
   And make thee famed for virtues fair,

And happy, too, happiness

   Depend upon parent's prayer.
                     APPENDIX.              307

I" Last hope of life's departing day,
   In whom its future scenes see !
No truant thought shall ever stray

   From this lone hermitage and thee."

Thus, to his humble fate resign'd,
   His breast each anxious care foregoes ;

All but the care of Armine's mind,

   The dearest task a parent knows !

And well were all his cares repaid ;
  In Armine's breast each virtue grew,

In full maturity display'd

   To fond Affection's anxious view.

Nor yet neglected were the charms,

   To polish'd life that grace impart ;
Virtue, he knew, but feebly warms,

   'Till Science humanize the heart.

And when he saw the lawless train
   Of passions in the youthful breast,

He curb'd them, not with rigid rein,
   But strove to soothe them into rest.

" Think not, my son, in this," he cried,
" A father's precept shall displease :

No -- be each passion gratified          V
   That tends to happiness or ease.
                      APPENDIX.

" Nor shall th' ungrateful task be mine
   Their native generous warmth to blame,

That warmth if Reason's suffrage join

   To point the object and the aim.

" This suffrage wanting, know, fond boy,
   That every passion proves a foe :

Though much it deal in promised joy,

  It pays, alas ! in certain woe.

" Complete Ambition's wildest scheme ;
   In Power's all-brilliant robes appear ;

Indulge in Fortune's golden dream ;

  Then ask thy breast if Peace be there :

" No : it shall tell thee, Peace retires

  If once of her loved friends deprived j

Contentment calm, subdu'd desires,

   And happiness that's self-derived."

To temper thus the stronger fires
   Of youth he strove, for well he knew,

Boundless as thought though man's desires,
   The real wants of life were few.

And oft revolving in his breast
   Th' insatiate lust of Wealth or Fame,

He, with no common care opprest,
   To Fortune thus would oft exclaim :
APPENDIX.                                     309

" O Fortune ! at thy crowded shrine    bow !
   What wretched worlds of suppliants

For ever hail'd thy pow'r divine,
   For ever breath'd the serious vow.

" With tottering pace and feeble knee,
   See Age advance in shameless haste ;

The palsied hand is stretched to thee
   For wealth he wants the power to taste.

" See, led by Hope, the youthful train,
   Her fairy dreams their hearts have won ;

She points to what they ne'er shall gain,

   Or dearly gain --to be undone.

" Must I, too, form the votive prayer,
   And wilt thou hear one suppliant more ?

His prayer, O Fortune, deign to hear,
   To thee who never pray'd before.

" 0 may one dear, one fevour'd youth,
   May Armine still thy pow'r disclaim ;

Kneel only at the shrine of Truth,
   Count Freedom Wealth, and Virtue Fame."

Lo ! to his utmost wishes blest
   The prayer was heard ; and Freedom's flame,

And Truth, the sunshine of the breast,
   Were Armine's wealth, were Armine's fame.
                     APPENDIX.

His heart no selfish cares confined,
   He felt for all that feel distress,

And, still benevolent and kind,
   He blest them, or he wish'd to bless.

For what though Fortune's frown deny
   With wealth to bid the sufferer live ?

Yet Pity's hand can oft supply

  A balm she never knew to give :

Can oft with lenient drops assuage
   The wounds no ruder hand can heal,

When Grief, Despair, Distraction, rage,
   While Death the lips of Love shall seal.

Ah ! then, his anguish to remove,

   Deprived of all his heart holds dear,
How sweet the still surviving love

   Of Friendship's smile, of Pity's tear !

This knew the sire : he oft would cry --
    " From these, my son, O ne'er depart !

These tender charities, that tie

   In mutual league the human heart.

" Be thine those feelings of the mind
    That wake at honour's, friendship's call :

Benevolence, that unconfined
     Extends her liberal hand to all.
                     APPENDIX.

" By Sympathy's untutor'd voice
   Be taught her social laws to keep ;

Rejoice with them that do rejoice,

   And weep with them that weep.

" The heart that bleeds for others' woes,
   Shall feel each selfish sorrow less ;

His breast who happiness bestows,
   Reflected happiness shall bless.

" Each ruder passion still withstood
   That breaks o'er Virtue's sober line,

The tender, noble, and the good,
   To cherish and indulge be thine.

I" And yet, my Armine, might name
  IOne passion as a dangerous guest ?

Well may'st thou wonder when blame
   The tenderest, noblest, and the best.

" Nature, 'tis true, with Love design'd
   To smoothe the race our fathers ran,

The savage of the human kind
   By Love was soften'd into man.

" As feels the ore the searching fire,
   Expanding and refining too,

So fairer glow'd each fair desire,
   Each gentle thought so gentler grew.
312  APPENDIX.

     " How changed, alas ! those happier days !

       A train how different now succeeds !

     While sordid Avarice betrays,

        Or empty Vanity misleads.

     " Fled from the heart each nobler guest,
        Each genuine feeling we forego ;

     What Nature planted in the breast,
        The flowers of love, are weeds of woe.

     " Hence all the pangs the heart must feel

        Between contending passions toss'd,

     Wild Jealousy's avenging steel,
        And life and fame and virtue lost !

     " Yet falling life, yet fading fame,

        Compared to what his heart annoy
     Who cherishes a hopeless flame,

        Are terms of happiness and joy.

     " Ah ! then, the soft contagion fly !
        And timely shun th' alluring bait !"

     The rising blush, the downcast eye,

        Proclaim' d--The Precept was too late.
APPENDIX.                                  313

                 PART II.

Deep in the bosom of a wood,

   Where Art had form'd the moated isle,
An antique castle towering stood ;

   In Gothic grandeur rose the pile.

Here Raymond, long in arms renown' d,
   From scenes of war would oft repair;

His bed an only daughter crown'd,
    And smiled away a father's care.

By Nature's happiest pencil drawn,
    She wore the vernal morning's ray :

 The vernal morning's blushing dawn
     Breaks not so beauteous into day.

 Her breast, impatient of control,
     Scorn'd in its silken chains to lie,

 And the soft language of the soul
     Flow'd from her never silent eye.

  The bloom that open'd on her face

    Well seem'd an emblem of her mind,

  Where snowy innocence we trace,
     With blushing modesty combined.
                               P
                      APPENDIX.

To these resistless grace impart
    That look of sweetness form'd to please,

That elegance, devoid of art,
    That dignity that's lost in ease.

What youth so cold could view unmoved
    The maid that every beauty shared ?

Her Armine saw --he saw, he loved,
   He loved --alas ! and he despair'd !

Unhappy youth ! he sunk oppress'd ;
   For much he labour'd to conceal

That gentlest passion of the breast,
   Which all can feign, but few can feel.

Ingenuous fears suppress'd the flame,
   Yet still he own'd its hidden power;

With transport dwelling on her name,
   He soothed the solitary hour.

I" How long," he cried, " must conceal

   What yet my heart could wish were known ?
How long the truest passion feel,

   And yet that passion fear to own ?

I" Ah ! might breathe my humble vow !

   Might she, too, deign to lend an ear !
Elvira's self should then allow

   That Armine was at least sincere.
APPENDIX.                                  315

" Wild wish ! to deem the matchless maid
   Would listen to a youth like me,

Or that my vows could e'er persuade,
    Sincere and constant though they be !

" Ah ! what avails my love or truth ?

   She listens to no lowly swain ;
Her charms must bless some happier youth,

   Some youth of Fortune's titled train.

" Then go, fallacious Hope ! adieu !

  IThe flattering prospect resign ;

And bear from my deluded view

   The bliss that never must be mine !

" Yet will the youth, whoe'er he be,
   In truth or tenderness excel ?

Or will he on thy charms, like me,
   With fondness never dying dwell ?

" Will he with thine his hopes unite ?

   With ready zeal thy joys improve ?
With fond attention and delight

   Each wish prevent, each fear remove?

" Will he, still faithful to thy charms,

   For constant love be long rever'd ?
Nor quit that heaven within thy arms

   By every tender tie endear'd ?

                   p2
316  APPENDIX.

     " What though his boastful heart be Tain
        Of all that birth or fortune gave ?

     Yet is not mine, though rude and plain,

       At least as noble and as brave ?

     " Then be its gentle suit preferr'd !
        Its tender sighs, Elvira, hear !

     IIn vain -- sigh, but sigh unheard ;

        Unpitied falls this lonely tear !"

     Twice twelve revolving moons had past,
        Since first he caught the fatal view ;

     Unchanged by time his sorrows last,
        Uncheer'd by hope his passion grew.

     That passion to indulge, he sought
        In Raymond's groves the deepest shade ;

     There Fancy's haunting spirit brought
        The image of his long-loved maid.

     But hark ! what more than mortal sound

        Steals on Attention's raptured ear!
     The voice of Harmony around

        Swells in wild whispers soft and clear.

     Can human hand a tone so fine
        Sweep from the string with touch profane ?

     Can human lip, with breath divine,
        Pour on the gale so sweet a strain ?
APPENDIX.                                        317

Tis she -- the source of Armine's woe !

   'Tis she -- whence all his joy must spring !

From her loved lips the numbers flow,

   Her magic hand awakes the string.

Now, Armine, now, thy love proclaim --           '
   Thy instant suit the time demands ;

Delay not ! Tumult shakes his frame,
   And lost in ecstasy he stands !

What magic chains thee to the ground ?
   What star malignant rules the hour--

That thus, in fix'd delirium drown'd,

   Each sense intranced hath lost its power ?

The trance dispel ! Awake ! arise !
    Speak what untutor'd love inspires !

The moment's past-- thy wild surprise
    She sees, nor unalarm'd retires.

" Stay, sweet illusion, stay thy flight !
   'Tis gone ! Elvira's form it wore.

Yet one more glimpse of short delight !
   'Tis gone ! to be beheld no more.

" Fly, loitering feet, the charm pursue
   That plays upon my hopes and fears !

Ha ! no illusion mocks my view !
   'Tis she --Elvira's self appears !
                     APPENDIX.

" And shall I on her steps intrude ?

   Alarm her in these lonely shades ?
O stay, fair nymph ! no ruffian rude,

   With base intent, your walk invades.

" Far gentler thoughts"--his {altering tongue.
   By humble diffidence restrain VI.

Paus'd in suspense -- but thus, ere long,
   As love impell'd, its power regain' d.

" Far gentler thoughts that form inspires !
   With me, far gentler passions dwell ;

This heart hides only blameless fires,
   Yet burns with what it fears to tell.

" The faltering voice, that fears control,
   Blushes, that inward fires declare, --

Each tender tumult of the soul

   In silence owns Elvira there."

He said; and as the trembling dove,
    Sent forth t' explore the watery plain,

 Soon fear'd her flight might fatal prove,

   And sudden sought her ark again --

 His heart recoil' d, as one that rued
    What he too hastily confest ;

 And all the rising soul, subdued,
     Sought refuge in his inmost breast.
APPENDIX.                                  319

The tender strife Elvira saw,
   Distress' d ; and as some parent mild,

When arm'd with words and looks of awe,
   Melts o'er the terrors of her child,

Reproof prepar'd, and angry fear,
   In soft sensations died away ;

They felt the force of Armine's tear,
    And fled from pity's rising sway.

" That mournful voice, that modest air,
   Young stranger, speak the courteous breast ;

Then why to these rude scenes repair,

   Of shades the solitary guest ?

" And who is she whose fortunes bear
    Elvira's melancholy name?

O may those fortunes prove more fair
    Than hers who sadly owns the same."

 " Ah, gentle maid ! in mine survey

   A heart," he cries, " that's yours alone !

Long has it own'd Elvira's sway,
    Though long unnoticed and unknown.

 " On Sherwood's old heroic plain,
    Elvira graced the festal day ;

 There, foremost of the youthful train,
    Her Armine bore the prize away.
320  APPENDIX.

     " There first that form my eyes survey 'd
        With future hopes that fill'd my heart ;

     But ah ! beneath that frown they fade--
       Depart --vain, vanquish'd hopes, depart !"

     He said ; and on the ground his eyes
        Were fix'd abash' d : th' attentive maid,

     Lost in the tumult of surprise,
        The well-remember'd youth survey'd.

     The transient colour went and came,
        The struggling bosom sunk and rose ;

     The trembling tumults of her frame,
        The strong-conflicting soul disclose.

     The time, the scene, she saw with dread,
        Like Cynthia setting, glanced away ;

     But scatter'd blushes as she fled --

        Blushes that spoke a brighter day.

     A friendly shepherd's neighbouring shed,

        To pass the live-long night, he sought ;
     And hope, the lover's downy bed,

        A sweeter charm than slumber brought.

     On every thought Elvira dwelt--
         The tender air, the aspect kind,

     The pity that he found she felt,
        And all the angel in her mind.
                     APPENDIX.             321

No self-plumed vanity was there,
   With fancied consequence elate ;

Unknown to her the haughty air
   That means to speak superior state.

Her brow no keen resentments arm ;
   No swell of empty pride she knew,

In trivial minds that takes th' alarm,
   Should humble love aspire to sue.

Such love, by flattering charms betray'd,
   Shall yet, indignant, soon rebel ;

And, blushing for the choice he made,
   Shall fly where gentler virtues dwell.

'Tis then the mind, from bondage free,
   And all its former weakness o'er,

Asserts its native dignity,
   And scorns what folly prized before.

The scanty pane the rising ray
   On the plain wall in diamonds threw,

The lover hail'd the welcome day,
  And to his favourite scene he flew.

There soon Elvira bent her way,

   Where long her lonely walks had been ;
Nor less had the preceding day,

   Nor Amine less, endear'd the scene.

                       p3
                      APPENDIX.

 Oft, as she pass'd, her rising heart
    Its stronger tenderness confess'd ;

 And oft she linger'd to impart
    To some safe shade her secret breast.

 " How slow the heavy hours advance,"

  IShe cried, " since that eventful day,

 When first caught the fatal glance
    That stole me from myself away !

 " Ah, youth beloved ! though low thy birth,
   The noble air, the manly grace, --

That look, that speaks superior worth,
    Can fashion, folly, fear erase ?

 " Yet sure from no ignoble stem
    Thy lineage springs, though now unknown ;

IThe world, censorious, may condemn, --
    But, Armine, am thine alone.

" To splendour only do we live ?
   Must pomp alone our thaughts employ ?

All, all that pomp and splendour give
   Is dearly bought with love and joy !

" But oh ! the favour'd youth appears !
   In pensive grief he seems to move !

My heart forebodes unnumber'd fears ;
   Support it Pity, Virtue, Love !
                     APPENDIX.                323

" Hither his footsteps seem to bend --
   Come, Resolution, to my aid !

My breast, what varying passions rend !
   Averse to go --to stay, afraid."

" Dear object of each fond desire
   That throbs tumultuous in my breast,

Why with averted glance retire ?
   At Armine's presence why distress'd F

" What though he boast no titled name,
   No wide extent of rich domain ?

Yet must he feel a fruitless flame,
   Must truth and nature plead in vain ?"

" Think not," she said, " by forms betray'd,
   To humbler worth my heart is blind ;

For soon shall every splendour fade,
   That beams not from the gifted mind.

" But first thy heart explore with care,
   With faith its fond emotions prove ;

Lurks no unworthy passion there ?
   Prompts not ambition hold to love ?"

" Yes, lovely maid," the youth replies,

   " A bold ambition prompts my breast ;

The tow'ring hope that love supplies,
   The wish in blessing to be bless'd.
324  APPENDIX.

     I" The meaner prospects despise,

        That wealth, or rank, or power bestow ;

     Be yours the grovelling bliss ye prize,
        Ye sordid minds, that stoop so low !

     " Be mine the more refined delights
        Of love, that banishes control ;

     When the fond heart with heart unites,
        And soul in unison with soul."

     Elvira blush'd the warm reply,

        (To love a language not unknown,)
     The milder glories fill*d her eye,

        And there a softer lustre shone.

     The yielding smile that 's half suppress'd,
        The short, quick breath, the trembling tear,

     The swell tumultuous of the breast,

        In Armine's favour all appear.

     At each kind glance their souls unite,
        While love's soft sympathy imparts

     The tender transport of delight
        That beats in undivided hearts.

     Respectful to his lips he press'd
        Her yielded hand ; in haste away

     Her yielded hand she drew, distress'd,
        With looks that witness'd wild dismay.
APPENDIX.                                      325

" Ah ! whence, fair Excellence, those fears ?
   What terror unforeseen alarms ?"

" See, where a father's frown appears !"
   She said, and sunk into his arms.

" My daughter ! Heavens, it cannot be !

  IAnd yet it must -- Oh, dire disgrace !

Elvira have lived to see

    Clasp'd in a peasant's vile embrace ?

" This daring guilt let death repay !"--
   His vengeful arm the javelin threw ;

With erring aim it wing' d its way,
   And far by Fate averted flew.

Elvira breathes --her pulses beat,

   Returning life illumes her eye ;
Trembling a father's view to- meet,

   She spies a reverend hermit nigh.

" Your wrath," she cries, " let tears assuage --
   Unheeded must Elvira pray ?

O let an injured father's rage
   This hermit's sacred presence stay !

I" Yet deem not, lost in guilty love,
      plead to save my virgin fame ;

My weakness, Virtue might approve,
   And smile on Nature's holy flame."
                     APPENDIX.

" Oh ! welcome to my hopes again,

 IMy son !" the raptured hermit cries,

" sought thee sorrowing on the plain," --
   And all the father fill'd his eyes.

" Art thou," the raging Raymond said,
   " Of this audacious boy the sire ?

Curse on the dart that idly sped,
   Nor bade his peasant soul expire !"

" His peasant soul!" --indignant fire
   Flash'd from the conscious father's eye,

" A gallant Earl is Aniline's sire,
  And know, proud Chief, that Earl am L

" Though here, within the hermit's cell

  I long have lived, unknown to fame ;

Yet crowded camps and courts can tell --
   Thou, too, hast heard of Egbert's name !"

" Ah ! Egbert ! he whom tyrant rage
   Forced from his country's bleeding breast ?

The patron of my orphan age,--
   My friend, my warrior, stands confess'd !

" But why ?"--" The painful story spare-
   That prostrate youth," said Egbert, " see !

His anguish asks a parent's care, --
   A parent once who pitied thee !"
APPENDIX.                                    327

Raymond, as one who, glancing round,
   Seems from some sudden trance to start,

Snatch'd the pale lovers from the ground,
   And held them, trembling, to his heart !

Joy, Gratitude, and Wonder, shed

   United tears o'er Hymen's reign,

And Nature her best triumph led, --
   For Love and Virtue join'd her train.
328         APPENDIX.

                         B.

          LETTERS FROM SIR W. JONES.

            (See p. 45.)

Amongst the letters from Sir W. Jones to Dr. Cart-

wright, which are inserted in the Life of the former by
Lord Teignmouth, there are two, of which portions only
are published by his lordship. As the suppressed passages
tend to throw light upon Sir William's character and

opinions, they are here published entire, and distinguished

by italics.

                        IFriday night, 8 Sept. 1780.

  Dear Sib, --Your last favour have this instant re

ceived, and am obliged to answer it in the greatest haste.

I hope you have by this time received my letter, in which
I Iinformed you that had declined a poll at Oxford, but

was as much obliged to you and my other friends as if

I Iyour kindness had been attended with the most brilliant
success.    saw an advertisement also, in the paper, that

Dr. Scott had declined.  rejoice that our sentiments

Icoincide;but, indeed, our sentiments are not much in
           have been told that the very Ode to which
fashion.

Iyou are so indulgent lost me near twenty votes :  this,

however, am unwilling to believe.

       I am, with high respect and gratitude,

            Your ever faithful servant,

                             W. Jones.

                         Lamb Buildings, Temple, 12 Nov., 1780.

   Dear Sir, --You have so fully proved the favourable

Iopinion which you do me the honour to entertain of me,

that am persuaded you acquit me of any culpable neglect
         APPENDIX.                                    329

in delaying, for more than two months, to answer your

very obliging letter. The truth that had but just
                           I
                                       is,
                                      I
received when found myself obliged to leave England
it

     aI
on very pressing business, and have not long been returned

from Paris. The hurry of preparing myself for so long    a

journey, at such season, left me no time for giving you

my hearty thanks, which now most sincerely request
         I

you to accept, both for your kind letter and for the very

elegant Sonnet with which you have rewarded me abund
antly for my humble labours in the field of literature.
I
                        a

          I
                   itI

                                                                    is
                                                                                      a

                           I
                                                                                                        ;
                                               I
                                                  II
give you my word, that your letters and verses have greatly

encouraged me in proceeding, as expeditiously as am

able, to send abroad my Seven Arabian Poets and

propose to spend next month at Cambridge, in order to

finish my little work, and to make use of rare manuscript

in the library of Trinity College. My own manuscript,

which was copied for me at Aleppo, very beautiful, but,

unfortunately, not very correct. You may depend on

receiving copy as soon as  can be printed. In these

rambles into the wilds of Arabia, soften the anguish which

  feel, whenever reflect on the melancholy times in which

we live -- times when many of the best men know have

actually resigned their seats in parliament, from a fuU con

viction that no exertions whatever can preserve our free

constitution, and that there no room left in this country for
;

                            is

                  I
                          I iIf
honest ambition. How happy shall be,                  should be

able to wait upon you in Leicestershire, or to see you in

London and assure you in person, that am, with the

greatest sincerity, dear sir, your much obliged
                          And ever faithful servant,

                                      W. Jones.
330            APPENDIX.

               c.

     PORTION OF ME. CARTWRIGHTS
                    POWER -LOOM,

     AS DESCRIBED IN HIS PATENT OP 1790.

               (See p. 67.)

A. The lathe, or frame which carries the reed.

B. The crank which moves the lathe, having a wheel

upon its axis, which receives motion from C, a wheel
on the principal axis, a a. The pickers, b b. The picker

strings, passing over pulleys, at c c, to the springs.

Ad. hook, or radius, turning with its axis at e, which axis

passes through the lathe, and also forms the axis of an
/,other hook,
               expressed by dotted lines, which rises up

through the fly. The picker, as it is driven back by the

shuttle, depresses the hook i, and consequently depresses

the point of the hook, or radius, g ; and this hook being

connected with the hook d, by means of a wire passing

from above the centre of the hook, or radius, g, to below

the centre of the hook d, the point of the hook d is ele

ivated or receives an oblique direction when the hook is
/,depressed, in the same manner as when the hook upon

its own axis, is depressed.

  Ak. spring which keeps the hook d in a perpendicular

direction, when the pickers are not driven or put back ;

in which case, when the lathe comes to, a lever, struck by

the hook d, disconnects the loom from the moving power,

and causes it to stop.

   C. A wheel giving motion to the axis on which are

the tappets for treading the shed, m m. Tappets for
working the shuttle-springs, n n. The shuttle-springs.
          APPENDIX.                           333

  o. A worm or wheel for giving motion to the calender-

rollers, that wind off the cloth.

  Ap. wheel receiving motion from a wheel of the mill.

          D.

CORDELIER, OR ROPEMAKING MACHINE.

          (See p. 146.)

Among the various mechanical contrivances which

Mr. Cartwright reduced to practice in his mill at Don-

caster was a machine for rope-making, to which he gave
the name of the " Cordelier." This invention was thought
very highly of by Mr. Fulton, -- who had also turned his

thoughts to the same object, as is shewn by his letters

inserted pp. 141, 146. An engraving of Mr. Cartwright's

Cordelier is given in the frontispiece, and is thus de

scribed in his specification of May 15, 1792.
   A, the axis ; B, the top, having holes through it for the

strands to pass, and which serves for a gudgeon for the

machine to turn upon ; C, D, pulleys fixed to the axis ;

E E E, jacks, or spole frames ; F, dead wheel within

which the axis revolves ; G G G, counter wheels upon the
pulley D ; H H H, the jack, or spole frame wheels ; 1 1 1,

delivering rollers, receiving motion by means of a wheel

upon the axis of one of them from K K K, hollow worms,

within which they respectively revolve. The gudgeons of

the jack, or spole frame next the top, are hollow, through

Lwhich the strands are delivered to the top.  L, drawing

rollers.
334  APPENDIX.

                             E.

     MR. CARTWRIGHTS PATENT BRICKS.

                                       (See p. 118.)

The principle of these bricks consists in making the two
opposite sides of a brick with a groove or rabbet in the
middle. The groove must be a little more than half the
width of the side of the brick, to allow room for the mortar.
(See fig. 1.)

                                        Fig. 1.

                                    v-

   This is the simplest form of these bricks, but the prin
ciple will be preserved, though the form of the groove or
rabbet may vary, provided the opposite side of the brick
vary in proportion, so as to fit together when built into a

wall. (See figure 2, where A and B are the two opposite

sides of a brick.)

                                        Fig. 2.
                     A. B.
APPENDIX.                     335

   For the purpose of breaking the joints in the depth of
the wall, bricks may be made of different lengths, though
of the same width. Buildings constructed with these
bricks will require no bond timbers, as the walls can
neither bulge nor crack without breaking through the
bricks themselves.

   In applying this principle to arches, the sides of the

grooves and the shoulders should be radii of a circle of
which the arch is a segment, though if the circle be very
large, a minute attention to this point is scarcely neces
sary. When the arch is very flat it may be well to have

the shoulders dovetailed, to prevent the arch from cracking
across, as is seen in figure 3.

                     Fig. 3.
A. B.

   When the bricks are as wide at the bottom as at the

top, the manner of dovetailing them is obvious, but when
they are wider at the top, the sides of the shoulders must

be parallel on one side of the brick (Fig. 3, A.) and the

side of the groove on the other. (B.)
   The appearance of the bricks in the face of an upright
336  APPENDIX.

wall, and also on both surfaces of an arch (when not dove
tailed) is shewn in figure 4.

                                        Fig. 4.

The mode of constructing an arch is shewn in figure 5.
                                   Fig. 5.
APPENDIX.  337

                           F.

   MR. CARTWRIGHT'S PRIZE ESSAY 
                 ON MANURES.

                                   (See p. 206.)

                  With Notes by Sir Humphry Davy.

There are few arts of practical application in which
more experiments have been tried than in agriculture. In
that department of it which relates to the article of

manures alone, they have been almost innumerable. The
theories on which they have been founded, or have given
rise to, have been nearly as numerous as the experiments
themselves. Yet it will be admitted, that the experiments
on manures have not been hitherto so diversified as the
nature of the subject might demand ; their object being,
for the most part, merely confined to the comparison of
one manure with another. The result of such experi
ments often proves very fallacious, from the manner in
which each respective manure produces its effects not
being taken into consideration, and by not adverting to
the peculiarities of the different soils on which they might
have been tried. Hence a manure which under one set of
experiments is found to be valuable, under another is con
demned as useless ; and that which is esteemed useless by
the first experimenter, in the hands of the next is con
 sidered as the reverse. This benefit, however, has arisen

 from these experiments, imperfectly conducted as they
 have been : they furnish reasonable data for estimating
 the quantum of one manure as equivalent to the quantum
 of another of the same class, so as to make it a matter of

                                                 Q
   338               APPENDIX.

   mere pecuniary calculation, according to local circum

   stances, which is to be preferred.

      There are many facts yet to be ascertained respecting
   the nature of manures, on which the general opinion is

   by no means agreed ; and even from those facts which

   are already ascertained, the conclusions are not always

   uniform.

   This uncertainty seems in part to have arisen from not

   considering the manner in which the different substances

   used as manures act under different circumstances. "Were
   all substances so used, the immediate food of plants, their

   operation, in proportion to the quantity of nutriment
   which each substance might afford, would, under all cir
   cumstances of variation of soil, be nearly the same ; but

   this we find is by no means the case. Hence the con

   clusionit

               is,

                            I
                                I
                                           I
             that there are substances used as manures

   whose beneficial effects proceed from other causes than

   the mere furnishing sustenance to the growing vegetable.
   To investigate these causes has been the object of the ex
   periments detailed in this essay. As there has been no
   set of experiments, as far as know, for the express pur
   pose of elucidating this view of the subject, familiar as the

   ideas suggests are to every one who has paid any atten

   tion to the philosophy of manures, thought might ren

   der some small service at least to the cause of agriculture

   by stating them.

      The substances employed as manures are, mineral,
   vegetable, and animal, or animalized matter:* of these,

      * do not know that animalized matter                                 different from

   animal matter. --H. D.
   I

                                                                       is

1
APPENDIX.                           339

some appear to produce their effects chiefly, if not alto

gether, by their mechanical operation on the soil itself, by
altering its texture ; others, by their chemical agency on
the different substances contained in the soil ; others, by

furnishing nutriment or stimulus to the assimilating or (if

I may so express myself) the digestive organs of the plants

themselves.

  IThe method which have adopted, as being that which
Iappeared the most obvious for arriving at the deductions

was in pursuit of, has been, first, to try the manures in

each class separately, which might furnish the opportunity
of remarking their simple operation, and then to use them
in combination, from whence might be deduced their

Ichemical influence on each other.have employed are -- lime,
The mineral substances

gypsum, sulphuric acid, and common salt.
   The vegetable substances are --peat, peat-ashes, wood-

ashes, decayed leaves, saw-dust, malt-dust, alkaline salts,
and (though not strictly in all cases a vegetable produc

tion) soot.
   The animal substances are --bone-dust and chandlers'

graves. The animalized matters are stable and fold-yard
dung. The vegetable and animal, or animalized matters,

Ithat might have been used as manures, are almost infinite ;

but as consider them as respectively the same in their
component parts, only varying as one or other component

Ipart may chance to be more or less concentrated, and to

predominate, confined myself to such as can be most

easily obtained.
   Having appropriated half an acre to each set of experi-

                        Q2
340                    APPENDIX.

Iraents,  divided it into sixty equal parts, which were
manured (the first excepted) as follows :--

No.                   Quantities.
  1. No manure.
                                   28. Lime, sulphuric acid, salt.
2. Sulphuric acid     - 3 oz.      29. Lime, salt, peat.
                                   30. Lime, salt, dung.
3. Sea-salt - -       J- peck.     31. Lime, peat, dung.
                                   32. Lime, salt, gypsum, peat
4. Lime - - -         - lbush.     33. Gypsum, dung.
                      - £peck.
5. Gypsum - -         - lpeck.     34. Gypsum, peat.
                      - 2 pecks.   35. Gypsum, graves.
6. Soot - - -         - 3 bush.    36. Gypsum, hone-dust.
                                   37. Gypsum, wood-ashes.
7. Wood-ashes -       - 2 pecks.   38. Gypsum, leaves.
                                   39. Soot, dung.
8. Saw-dust        -               40. Soot, peat.
                                   41. Soot, salt.
9. Malt-dust -                     42. Wood-ashes, dung.
                                   43. Wood-ashes, peat.
10. Peat - - - - 3 bush.           44. Wood-ashes, salt.
11. Decayed leaves - 3 bush.        45. Wood-ashes, decayed

12. Fresh dung - - 3 bush.                      leaves.
                                   46. Wood-ashes, bone-dnst.
13. Rotted dung - lbush.            47. Wood-ashes, malt-dust.
14. Bone-dust - - lpeck.           48. Saw-dust, dung.
                                    49. Saw-dust, salt.
15. Chandlers' graves, 9 lb.
                                    50. Malt-dust, salt
16. Lime, sulphuric acid.*          51. Peat, dung.
                                    52. Peat, salt.
17. Lime, sea-salt.                 53. Peat, decayed leaves.

18. Lime, soot.
19. Lime, wood-ashes.
20. Lime, saw-dust.

21. Lime, malt-dust.

22. Lime, peat.

23. Lime, leaves.
24. Lime, dung.

25. Lime, bone-dust.

26. Lime, chandlers' graves.

27. Lime, pond-mud.

   * In this and the following numbers the quantities of each

ingredient are the same as when used singly.
                        APPENDIX.                     341

No.                           No.
54. Peat, bone-dust, salt.    58. Peat-ashes, salt.
                              59. Peat-ashes, lime.
55. Decayed leaves, salt.
56. Decayed leaves, dung.     60. Chandlers' graves, salt.*
5r. Peat-ashes, dung.

   On the 14th of April, 1804, the whole was planted with

potatoes; and that the experiment might be conducted

with all possible accuracy, each part received the same
number of sets. On the 14th of May, a few days after

the plants appeared, No. 9, malt- dust, was perceptibly the
most vigorous, next to which, in succession, were the

following :--

15. Chandlers' graves.        No.
                                1. No manure.

26. Lime, chandlers' graves.  7. Wood-ashes.

21. Lime, malt-dust.          10. Peat.

34. Gypsum, peat.             13. Rotted dung.

35. Gypsum, chandlers' graves. 14. Bone-dust.

40. Soot, peat.               16. Lime, sulphuric acid.

47. Wood-ashes, malt-dust.    18. Lime, soot.

32. Lime, salt, gypsum, peat. 22. Lime, peat.

60. Chandlers' graves, salt.  23. Lime, decayed leaves.

50. Malt-dust, salt.          25. Lime, bone-dust.

11. Decayed leaves.           27. Lime, pond-mud.

6. Soot.                      28. Lime, sulphuric acid, salt

5. Gypsum.                    24. Lime, dung.
3. Salt.                      31. Lime, peat, dung.

2. Sulphuric acid.            36. Gypsum, bone-dust.

  I* am sorry to see metallic matters omitted ; such as

green vitriol, or sulphate of iron ; oxyde of iron, or ochre,
&c-- H. D.
342 APfENDIX.

No.                         No.
37. Gypsum, wood-ashes.       4. Lime.
38. Gypsum.                   8. Saw-dust.
39. Soot, dung.
41. Soot, salt.             12. Fresh dung.
42. Wood-ashes, dung.       17. Lime, salt.
43. Wood-ashes, peat.       19. Lime, wood-ashes.
44. Wood-ashes, salt.       20. Lime, saw-dust.
45. Wood-ashes, decayed     24. Lime, dung.
                            30. Lime, salt, dung.
            leaves.         33. Gypsum, dung.
46. Wood-ashes, bone-dust.  48. Saw-dust, dung.'
51. Peat, dung.             56. Decayed leaves, dung.
52. Peat, salt.             57. Peat-ashes, dung.
53. Peat, decayed leaves.   58. Peat-ashes, salt.
54. Peat, bone-dust, salt.  59. Peat-ashes, lime.
55. Decayed leaves, salt.
                            49. Saw-dust, salt.

   It will be necessary here to observe, that from No. 9 to

No. 3 inclusive, the gradation of excellence was obviously
perceptible. From No. 2 to No. 55 inclusive, there was
little or no perceptible difference. From No. 4 to No. 49

the plants were considerably inferior to those included in

No. 2 and No. 55.

  It is worthy of remark that, in this stage of the busi

ness, the experiment is in favour of malt-dust, soot, and
graves ; and the reason why it is so seems to be apparent.
Sugar,* mucilage,')" and carbon,J being the principal in-

  I* should say, because saccharine matter is probably more

nutritious than any other vegetable matter, or than any

animal matter.--H. D.
  t Chandlers' graves, I suppose, are beneficial because the

mucilage is in the fittest state for speedy or immediate ab
sorption. --H. D.

  | This experiment seems to shew, what has not been done
APPENDIX.                   343

gredients and constituent parts in the composition of
vegetables, it is natural to suppose that those substances
which are most readily disposed to putrefy, or which pre
sent themselves in a state of the nearest assimilation to the
plant which is to be fed by them, will be more immediately
imbibed than such as must previously be decomposed
cither by their own internal fermentation or by the action
of external causes.

   On the 28th of May, the apparent vigour of the plants
was in the following order :--

9. Malt-dust. 15. Chandlers' graves. 26. Lime, chandlers'

graves. 21. Lime, malt-dust. 40. Soot, peat. 47. Wood-

ashes, malt-dust. 13. Rotted dung. 6. Soot 18. Lime, soot.

59. Peat, bone-dust. 10. Peat. 31. Lime, peat, dung. 32.

Lime, salt, gypsum, peat 34. Gypsum, peat. 35. Gypsum,

chandlers', graves. 36. Gypsum, bone-dust. 37. Gypsum,

wood-ashes, 38. Gypsum, leaves. 39. Soot, dung. 41. Soot,

salt 43. Wood-ashes, peat. 46. Wood-ashes, bone-dust.

50. Malt-dust, salt 51. Peat, dung. 52. Peat, salt 53,

Peat, decayed leaves. 55. Decayed leaves, salt. 60. Chand

lers' graves, salt. 1. No manure. 2. Sulphuric acid. 3. Salt.

5. Gypsum. 7. Wood-ashes.   11. Decayed leaves. 14. Bone-
dust 19. Lime, wood-ashes.  22. Lime, peat. 23. Lime, de

cayed leaves. 25. Lime, bone-dust. 27. Lime, pond-mud.

28. Lime, sulphuric acid, salt. 29. Lime, salt, peat. 33.

Gypsum, dung. 42. Wood-ashes, dung. 44. Wood-ashes,

salt. 45. Wood-ashes, decayed leaves. 58. Peat-ashes, salt

before, -- that carbon in the state of a subtle powder, as in the
sublimate called soot, is really absorbed with facility, and
accordingly either nourishes or stimulates more speedily. --
H. D.
344                    APPENDIX.

12. Fresh dung. 4. Lime. 54. Peat, bone-dust, salt. 57.
Peat-ashes, dung. 56. Decayed leaves, dung. 49. Saw-dust,
salt. 48. Saw-dust, dung. 20. Lime, saw-dust. 30. Lime,
salt, dung. 24. Lime, dung. 17. Lime, salt. 16. Lime, sul

phuric acid. 8. Saw-dust.

   The variations between this table and the former are

worthy of observation. In the first table, sixteen of the
experiments take place of No. 1, in this, twenty-eight have

the superiority. The same reason which is applied to the

former table may assist us in accounting for the results of

this. The different manures beginning now to develop
themselves, and to be decomposed, give out (though as yet
in moderate proportion) the requisite aliment to the plants

they are to sustain.

   On the 2nd of July, Nos. 26 and 21 had taken the lead

of No. 9 ; and on the 24th of the same month No. 35

had visibly outstripped them all.
    On the 21st of September, when the roots were taken

up, the order of precedence was as follows :--

     No.                          Produce.
     35. Gypsum, graves             250 lbs.

     41. Soot, salt               240

     21. Lime, malt-dust          239

     18. Lime, soot               231

     39. Soot, dung               228

     40. Soot, peat               225

     34. Gypsum, peat             222

     15. Graves                                                           220
     26. Lime, graves      - - - - - 219

     44. Wood-ashes, salt         219
    --------APPENDIX.                 345

No.                              Produce.
37. Gypsum, wood-ashes             218 lbs.
                                    217
43. Wood-ashes, peat
16. Lime, sulphuric acid
----42. Wood-ashes, dung         213

45. Wood-ashes, decayed leaves  - - 213

47. Wood-ashes, malt-dust - - - - 213
---------33. Gypsum, dung
                                 210

46. Wood-ashes, hone-dust - - - - 208

                                 207

36. Gypsum, bone-dust           --- 206
                                                          205
38. Gypsum, dry leaves    -                               201
                                                          201
13. Rotted dung

32. Lime, salt, gypsum, peat
-----------30. Lime, salt, dung
                                 199

3. Salt                          198

56. Decayed leaves, dung - - - - 198

60. Graves, salt                 195

31. Lime, peat, dung             194

14. Bone-dust         ----- 193
 6. Soot                                                             192
                                                                     192
12. Fresh dung

25. Lime, bone-dust              190

50. Malt-dust, salt              189

24. Lime, dung                   188

7. Wood-ashes                    187

55 Decayed leaves, salt - - - - 187
                          - - - - 185
19. Lime, wood-ashes

58. Peat-ashes, salt             185

9. Malt-dust                     184

29. Lime, salt, peat             183

51. Peat, dung                   183

57. Peat-ashes, dung             183

48. Saw-dust, dung               180

                      Q3
346                     ATPENDIX.
......No.
                                         Produce.
49. Saw-dust, salt
22. Lime, peat                             180 lbs.

                                            179

     5. Gypsum                           178

54. Peat, bone-dust                      178

11. Decayed leaves -                     175

28. Lime, sulphuric acid, salt - - - 175

53. Peat, decayed leaves - - - - 172

23. Lime, decayed leaves - - - - 171

.....52. Peat, salt                      171

59. Peat-ashes, lime - - - - -171

     2. Sulphuric acid                   170

17. Lime, salt                           167

...........20. Lime, saw-dust            166
                                         159
10. Peat                                 157
 1. No manure -                          155
                                         150
 8. Saw-dust
 4. Lime                                 - 150
27. Lime, pond-mud

   The final result of these experiments not only tends to
ascertain some doubtful facts, but leads, it is presumed, to

some important conclusions.

 IThe first article used as manure is sulphuric acid. The

use of this substance was first suggested, if mistake not,

by the late ingenious Dr. G. Fordyce ; whether it ever
Iwas brought to the test of experiment,
                                         am not able to

ascertain. It appears, however, that its effects are bene

ficial ; but whether those effects are produced by its

assisting in the decomposition* of animal or vegetable

Imatter in the soil, by stimulating the organs of the plant,

or by supplying it with oxygen, are questions which

* Not by decompounding but by stimulating. -- H. D;
                APPENDIX.                                 347

Iwill not take upon me to answer. Dr. George Fordyce,

if remember right, leans to the latter opinion.*
   In experiment No. 16, where the sulphuric acid is com

bined with lime, my object was to try the effect of an

artificial gypsum, in which, however, the lime very much
Apredominated.
                reference to the foregoing table will

shew that it may be used with considerable efficacy. The

expense of gypsum in many parts of the kingdom,
remote from where it is found, admitting not of its

being applied to agricultural purposes, it occurred to me

that a factitious gypsum might be a valuable succedaneum.

  In experiment No. 28, the sulphuric acid being diluted

with a sufficient quantity of water, and the salt mixed

iswith the whole was thrown upon the unslaked lime

   *

         is a it,
                      is

                         a

                                           it
                                                                             ;
                                                      it
                                                                            4,
                                      it I
                                                                                                                                    ;
by this commixture of sulphuric acid and salt, was of

opinion that the marine acid would fly off, leaving the

soda; and that the heat and effervescence excited by

slaking the lime might possibly assist in the operation.
If we compare this experiment with No.
                                        certainly

not without beneficial effect but whether in conse

quence of the expulsion of marine acid, may be difficult

to determine.

Opinions have been long divided on the subject of sea-

salt as manure. From this set of experiments, at least,

there  reason to conclude  possesses considerable

activity. It matter of observation) that in thirteen dif

ferent combinations of salt with other substances, four

only are superior to salt used alone --namely, No. 32,

      His experiments with sulphuric acid will be found
among the papers of the Board of Agriculture during the
reign of Sinclair. --H. D.
348                    APPENDIX.

41, 30, and 44; and in eight out of thirteen the salt
--added to the efficacy of the matters combined with it ;

as, for example,
No.
                                                             Produce.
.....4. Lime alone gives
                         ....Superiority -                    isolbs.

     Combined with salt, No. 17, the produce is 167

                                                          -       17

22. Lime and peat give                                       179

29. Ditto, with the addition of salt 183

                         Superiority    -                         4

6. Soot                                                      192

41. Soot and salt        Superiority    -                      270
44. Wood-ashes and salt      --         -                 - 48
                                                          - 219

7. Wood-ashes                                                   187
                                                          - 32
8. Saw-dust        -       Superiority  -                 - 155
                                        -
                        ---

49. Saw-dust and salt                                        180

                                            Superiority-  -          25
 9. Malt-dust                                          -     184
50. Malt-dust and salt                                 -  -  189
                                                          -
                                            Superiority   -              5
                                                             175
........11. Decayed leaves                                   187

55. Decayed leaves and salt                                            12

     .....Superiority
24. Lime and dung                                            188

.....30. Lime, dung, and salt--         -                 - 199
                                        -                 - 11
                         Superiority

In four instances, the salt appears to have done harm :

16. Artificial gypsum                                        213

28. Artificial gypsum and salt    -     -                 --- 175
                                        -
                         Superiority                      - 38
                       APPENDIX.                               349

No.                                                       Produce.
                                                             213 lbs.
16. Artificial gypsum

32. Lime, peat, gypsum, and salt -                        201

                             Superiority  -            -       12

14. Bone-dust                                             193
                                                          178
-----54. Bone-dust and salt - - -         -            -
                                            Superiority--           15
15. Graves                                                220
60. Graves and salt                                       195

                             Superiority  -            -          25

   In the two last of the above experiments, possibly the

antiseptic quality of the salt might retard the putre
factive process, so as to render the bone-dust and graves

less efficacious than they would have been had the salt

been omitted.                         Ion the general good              it,
                                         should attribute
 IWere to hazard a conjecture

effect of salt in these experiments,

in considerable degree, to its property of attracting
a

            ;

       I
moisture for observed that those parts of the field

where the salt was applied were for a considerable time

visibly moister than the rest, -- mean, so long as the dry
                             I

weather continued after the rains fell, that distinction,
               ;

of course, was obliterated.

   But in none of these experiments have theory and prac
tice been so at variance as in the application of lime and

its different combinations. The general good effect with

which lime applied led me to expect that, though the
simple application of might not prove strikingly bene
ficial, yet combined with other manures, and those so dif
          is

                      it

ferent in their qualities, its effects could not but be

obvious.
350                      APPENDIX.

   No. 4, lime alone, and No. 27, combined with pond-

mud, are the least productive. In sixteen experiments

it does not appear to have been particularly efficacious,

except in four instances ; when applied by itself, it does
harm rather than good, producing only 1501b. The
produce of No. 27, when mixed with the pond-mud, is
the same. This latter fact is rather curious.* The soil

on which the experiment was tried was a loose ferru

ginous sand, but was brought to its present texture by

a very thick covering of pond mud ; so that it received
no accession of fertility by the additional quantity that

was given to nor did the lime meet with anything to
1. a
operate upon in that additional quantity, which was not
          it,
                 it,in the soil before.

Gypsum, though used with great success on the Con

tinent and in America, has not hitherto been considered

as very efficacious manure by the English farmer. My

experiments, however, induce me to think very favour

ably of  especially when combined          with other sub
stances.
     No.                                                 Produce.
     5. Gypsum                                             178 lbs.

 ......No manure
                                            Superiority  157

.......32. Lime, salt, peat, and gypsum    --                 21

                                                         201

29. Lime, salt, and peat                                 183

                          Superiority                         18

33. Gypsum, dung                                   207
                                              - 192
12. Dung -            -   ---              -  - 15
                              Superiority  -

      Probably the mud was little else than clay or sandy
matter and so, would be harmful. -- H. D.
*
         ;

            if
                    APPENDIX.                     351

No.                    ....Superiority-      Produce.
39. Gypsum and peat                           222 lbs.
 10. Peat
                                               159
35. Gypsum and graves
                                                       63

                                             250

15. Graves                                     220
                                          - 30
                       Superiority  -

36. Gypsum and bone-dust ·                   206

14. Bone-dust                                193
                                                       13
                       Superiority  -     -
                                             218
.....37. Gypsum and wood-ashes - - -7. Wood-ashes-187

                       Superiority -      -          31
                                          -  205
38. Gypsum and dried leaves, not decayed     175

11. Decayed leaves

                       Superiority                30

To these instances we may add No. 16, factitious

gypsum.

   The most striking of these experiments is No. 35 ; and
it is to be remarked, in general, that previous to the

middle of July, the plants where the gypsum had been

used gave no indication of superiority ; their subsequent
vigour can be accounted for on no other ground than on
the supposition that the septic quality of the gypsum had
not, till then, produced its effects in the decomposition of
the substances (the wood-ashes excepted) which the gyp
sum was combined with.*

   · Or that the gypsum impeded the absorption of the
mucilage in the graves, although it continued to stimulate ;
for in this case we had two kinds of manures-- .viz., a stimur
latiDg and a nutritious one. -- H. D.
352  APPENDIX.

    Of soot, the most remarkable circumstance is its efficacy
 in combination with salt, in experiment 41, and this

Iefficacy am disposed to attribute to a property in salt

taken notice of before --namely, its attraction of moisture ;

 a property which could not fail of being beneficial when
 the salt was combined with so hot and dry a manure as
soot, which, from its acrid nature, requires to be much

 diluted.

   It was expected that wood-ashes, from the power which

alkaline salts have of decomposing animal and vegetable
matter, would have been more efficacious than they appear
to have been by these experiments. By referring, how
ever, to the foregoing table, it will be seen that they have

Iin no instance been applied without efficacy.
    The article of which had the greatest doubt was saw

dust, from its known effect of destroying weeds when

spread tolerably thick on gravel walks. In the first stages,
indeed, of the business, it was very unpromising. The

Iplants at first were very backward and sickly; by degrees,

however, they recovered themselves, which attributed
to the acid, or tanning principle in the saw-dust being
spent or washed out by the subsequent rains. That the
saw-dust, even after it had lost its tanning principle,
should have no material operation on the soil the first
year is not to be wondered at, as the carbon, which is its
principal ingredient, will remain for some time in a state
of great insolubility. There can be little doubt of its
effects being very apparent at a future season.

  It will be seen, by referring to the former tables, that

malt-dust is very immediate in its operations ; but from
the last table it would appear that its effects are not so
                       APPENDIX.                          353

permanent as some other manures of slower dissolution,

and which require longer time before they can be decom

posed and become soluble in water.

    Though malt-dust may possess no durable property, yet
 its immediate and powerful operation in promoting a
 rapid vegetation points it out as a valuable manure, espe-
"cially when it can be used as a top-dressing to plants in

Ian advanced state of growth. In this mode have used
a

                                               it
                                                                                  it,
in set of experiments unconnected with the present,

with the greatest success, applying to the potato crop

immediately before earthing up.

   The peat in the part of the country where these expe
riments are tried containing considerable proportion of
                          a
                                  it,
oxyde of iron, was not very sanguine in my expectations
            I

of any very powerful effect from       in whatever form
                                                       it
                                                                  it
might be applied, on soil of which the iron already
                       a

contains constitutes about fifty-seventh part. Leaves,
                          a

in state, of imperfect decay, bearing no very remote rea
semblance to peat in its simple state, uncombined with

iron or sulphur, wished to compare them together.
                  I                                    a
                                                                     ;
had, however, another object in view in introducing leaves
                                                             aI
into the experiment, which was, to recommend practice,

too much neglected, of collecting them in the autumn;

(when can be conveniently done,) either to be laid in
heap to ferment and rot, or to be mixed with dung or
   it

                   is
which, perhaps, a better way still, to furnish litter for

the fold-yard, mixing with them due proportion of straw
                                 a
or stubble. When singly applied, the advantage in this
                                       if
                                                    ;
experimentis      in favour of decayed leaves in combination
              is
with other substances, they appear nearly upon par.    a

  It usually calculated that three, not four, loads of
354               APPENDIX.

fresh dung from the fold-yard will be required to make

one load after the dung has undergone the putrefactive
Iprocess.
           wished, therefore, to institute a comparison

between them in these two different stages, with a view to

ascertain the advantage or disadvantage of the usual

Imethod of not laying on dung till it is completely or
nearly rotted. In this comparison  tried only three"

bushels of fresh dung against one of rotted dung.

No. Produce.

13. Rotted dung*                                   201 lbs.

12. Fresh dung                                     192

     Superiority in favour of rotted dung               9

   The experiment, however, does not terminate here:
their comparative effects must be pursued through subse
quent seasons till the soil requires to be renovated afresh.

It is reasonable to conclude that the dung which is now

laid on fresh will continue its efficacy after the rotted

dung is exhausted.
   Dung combined with soot, No. 39 ; with wood-ashes,

No. 42 ; and with gypsum, No. 33, seems to have been
benefited by the combination ; but its greatest effects are
to be looked for in the succeeding crop.

   Bone-dust being of difficult dissolution, it was natural
to suppose its effects would be considerably augmented by
combination with such substances as would assist in its
decomposition. The justice of this opinion will appear by

  * It must be a most wasteful custom to keep dung till it is
further putrefied, because the sole use of the putrefactive pro

cess is to break down the texture to fit the matter for disso

lution and absorption, in which state fresh dung is already.
Straw is not so ; it should be rotted ; so should saw-dust. --
H.D.
                  APPENDIX.               355

comparing the effect of bone-dust when used by itself, and
when in combination with gypsum, or wood-ashes.*

No.                                            Produce.

36. Bone-dust and gypsum  -               - 206 lbs.
                                          - 193
14. Bone-dust  -                          - 13
                                          - 208
                          Superiority  -  - 187
                                       -  - 21
46. Wood-ashes and bone-dust

7. Wood-ashes

                          Superiority

    Bones are a manure as efficacious as permanent, and

consequently they should be collected wherever they are
to be met with -- a practice, however, which is never
attended to by the farmer, except in situations where
there are mills for grinding them.

   Of the same nature with bone-dust are chandlers'

graves ; but from their more rapid tendency to become
putrid and soluble in water, their operation as manure is

also more rapid.

   Of the fifteen simple manures, chandlers' graves stand

first, as they do also in combination ; though soot, in com
bination, is scarcely inferior.

   The operation of every manure must, in a greater or less
degree, be influenced by the quality of the soil on which

Iit is applied. That every possible light may be thrown

on the subject of these experiments, have subjoined an
analysis of the soil on which they were tried.f Four

   * The superiority was from the stimulating quality of the
gypsum and wood-ashes. --H. D.

   ·f These analyses were made by Sir H. Davy, as appears
from the letters between him and Mr. Cartwright, at p. 206.
--Editor.
356            APPENDIX.

hundred grains gave of siliceous sand of different degree

-------of fineness about--
                                                                                           280
   Of finely divided matter, which appeared in the
form of clay                                        104

Loss in water                               - 16

    ------ 400

The 104 grains of finely-divided matter contained
-----Of carbonate of lime                           IS

Oxyde of iron                                        7
Loss by incineration, most probably from vegetable
decomposing matter                                  17

Remainder principally silex and alumine. There was no

indication of gypsum or phosphate of lime.

   This analysis accounts, not unsatisfactorily, for two at

least of the phenomena in the foregoing experiments --
namely, the great activity of gypsum, and the inutility of

peat-ashes. The soil, containing in itself no gypsum, re

ceives from the application of that mineral an accession of
active power which it wanted ; and having already more
than a necessary share of iron in its composition, it be

comes, by the addition of peat-ashes, supersaturated with

that which in certain proportions is an invigorating stimu
lant, but when too abundant, operates as a poison.

   Two sets of experiments, and with the same proportion

of manures, were tried, on a soil of a very different nature,
with buck-wheat and turnips. As my object in these
two sets of experiments was to try the intrinsic effects of
               APPENDIX.                           357

I Imanures, unaided by any vegetating principle in the soil,
   chose the poorest could meet with. Of its poverty

judgment may be made by the following analysis :- -

-------400 grains gave, of siliceous sand-         Grains.
                                                     320

Of finely divided matter, which appeared as brown

mould                                              68

Loss in water                                      12

                                                                                                        400

   The finely divided matter lost nearly half its weight by
incineration, which shews that it contained a great deal of
vegetable matter. The residuum was principally a mix
ture of aluminous and siliceous earths, coloured red by
oxyde of iron, and containing very little calcareous matter.
There was no indication of either gypsum or phosphate of

lime.

  IThe detail of these experiments will be short.

   July 6th, 1804, sowed one piece with turnips, the
other with buck-wheat. On the 26th of the same month,

each piece was examined minutely. Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 14, 49, 50, 54, 58, 60, shewed little or no marks of
vegetation. The rest were only in the seed leaf. On the
16th of August, one-half of the turnips and about two-
thirds of the buck-wheat were dead. From that period to
the 15th of September, after a few alternations of health and
sickness, the turnips all died away, except Nos. 12, 18,

21, 24, 25, 26, 30, 35, 39, 42, 47, 56.

  IOn these experiments have to observe, generally, that

where the manures made use of, whether stimulant or nu
tritive, (as, for instance, salt or malt-dust, did not contri
    358  APPENDIX.

    bute in some degree to the texture and consistence of the
    soil, the plants scarcely got into the seed leaf; and that

    what little health and vigour they afterwards possessed

    seemed to depend more on the texture and consistence
    which the soil acquired from the respective manures, than
    on any other circumstance. Hence the beneficial effects
    of limp on these soils, as also of clay and argillaceous

    marls.

      It may not be foreign to the purpose of this essay to

    observe, that adjoining to the piece where these experi
    ments were tried is a field of the same original quality,
    which within these few years has been reclaimed from a
    state of nature, and brought into a state of cultivation and

    fertility, chiefly by improving its texture by a thick coat

    of marly clay.

       Enough has been said, it is presumed, in the detail of

    Ithe foregoing experiments, to shew the general nature and

    properties of manures. Respecting their application,
    have to observe, that the circumstance of most importance
    to attend to is the texture of the soil ; where it is too loose,
    such manures should be applied as will add as much as

    possible to its solidity and consistence, such as marly clay,
    lime, thoroughly digested dung, graves, or any other
    unctuous and fertilizing substance which is of little bulk,

    and which, when reduced to its first principles by decom
    position, will not increase the openness and porosity of the

    Isoil.                 should recommend, not only semi-
       For stronger soils

    digested dung, but dung or litter even in as fresh a

    state as it could conveniently be applied. Decayed leaves,

    also, are an excellent manure for strong land; being of

-,
                         APPENDIX.  359

very slow dissolution, when once mixed with the soil it is
a long time before they permit it to resume its natural

tenacity. Lime, also, is beneficially applied to strong as

well as light land ; being more open in its texture and less

adhesive than clay, and less open in its texture and-more

Iadhesive than sand, it is applied with equal benefit to soils
of either description.   am speaking now merely of its

mechanical agency, but of all ameliorating applications to

strong land, perhaps sand is the best. The reason is too

obvious to insist upon.

Besides a general knowledge of the nature and properties

of the manures he employs, the farmer should also be ac
quainted with the component parts of the soil he intends

they should operate upon ; otherwise he may be in danger

of aggravating its defects, or, at least, wasting his efforts

to no purpose.

   As a general rule it may be observed, that no mineral

manure should be applied to a soil abounding in the same
mineral already. As mineral manures appear to operate
more by their chemical agency than in any other way,

their principal use seems to be to correct and neutralize

what is noxious in the original composition of the soil, and

to assist in the decomposition of those substances which, in
their present state of insolubility, are useless.

  IFor the purpose of preparing fold or stable manure for

the field, it has been proposed to manufacture it (if may

so express myself) under covered buildings, with a view of

defending it from the influence of the elements. In this

there is certainly more of refinement than practical utility.
Add to this the inconvenience of having to carry the ma

nure perhaps a mile or two, at a time when, if it were even
   3G0                             APPENDIX.

   laid in the very field where it is wanted, the farmer can
   hardly find time to spread it before the seed ought to be in

   the ground.

      It is needless to dwell upon the expensiveness of this

   plan. Landlords already find the providing and keeping-
   in repair such buildings as are of unavoidable necessity a
   tax sufficiently heavy, without incumbering themselves

   with others, which, perhaps, their tenants would not thank

   them for.

   The most advantageous, and in the end, perhaps the

          ;

                     is
                         is,

                                 is
                                       it
                                                is

                                                        is
   cheapest way, to form the dunghill, or compost heap, as

   near to the field where                      to be used as conveniently

   may be. It true, more labour required in the first in

   stance but labour of different value at different seasons.

   The farmer can better appropriate four days, at some

   seasons of the year, to the leading his dung from the fold -

   yard to the field, that may be ready against the time                       it
                                   a it
   wanted, than he can spare one day in the hurry of seed
   is
           istime.

   In forming dunghill,                  it     of more importance than is
               is a                         is

   commonly imagined to mix certain portion of soil with it.
                                         a

   When dung formed into heap by itself,
                                         a                  it              exposed
                                                                  it
                                                                        is
   on all sides to the rain and to the exhaling influence of the

   sun and wind by mixing and covering with soil, these
               ;;
   inconveniences may in great measure be prevented. Buta

   this not all       dunghill thrown up in common way
                                                            a
                                                                       a
   loses, by unavoidable drainage and evaporation, greater

   proportion of its fertilizing principles than can be well

   calculated. What loses by drainage                       is,

                                                               it

                                                                           is
               ;                                            indeed, obvious

                        it       easy to conceive what must lose by
                            is it
   to the eye and

   evaporation, by only observing the steam which perpe-

-
                      APPENDIX.                      361

tually rising from it during its fermentation. But when

soil is mixed with    the drainageit,prevented, and the
                                                 ; is

                                               if

                                         I
                                                                          a
                                                                                               a
gaseous fluid and volatile alkali, which would otherwise

fly off, are prevented from escaping or,             they quit the

dunghill, are absorbed and retained by the soil.
   To ascertain how far soil, when only laid upon dung

hill, absorbs and retains those fertilizing principles which
would otherwise be lost in the atmosphere, took from

an old hot-bed, which had been employed through the
winter in forcing asparagus, as much soil as would fill
trench one foot deep and six feet square. From the same
heap of earth whence this soil was taken, but which had
been fallow through the winter, filled another trench of
          it I
the same dimensions.       planted the two with lettuces,
                ?a

                   I

                               it is
                                                  ;
                            I
                                               it
all, as nearly as possible, of equal size and vigour. When

full grown, drew and weighed them. The produce of
Ifthe first trench was 42 lb. of the latter, 33 lb.
                                                     the

increased fertility of soil so great from merely lying on

the surface of dunghill, what must be when generally

mixed with  To this may perhaps be objected, that

by mixing soil with dung you impede or retard its fer

mentation. This, however, ought to be no objection;

unless the farmer hurried in point of time, as dung can
            a
                  is
not ferment too slowly.

   In forming compost heap, the farmer cannot bring

together too many or too discordant ingredients, as they
will all mutually assist in the decomposition of each

other. Amongst other articles, particularly recommend
                           is

                             aI
bones, unless where there          bone-mill. These should

be laid in the middle of the heap, where the fermentation

    greatest. When the heap removed, the bones are to
is                         K

                               is
362               APPENDIX.

be taken out and put into the next compost heap that

may be made, as they will undergo a partial dissolution
in every heap which they are put into ; each heap will,

as far as that dissolution goes, be benefited by them, till

at length the bones are totally dissolved.
IBefore conclude this essay, it may be necessary to
Iobserve, that it has been my endeavour (and in which am
Iwilling to hope
                  have succeeded) to express myself in

such terms as to be intelligible, not only to the theoretical
Iand scientific, but to the mere practical farmer.
                                                    have

Iendeavoured also to avoid, as much as possible, indulging

in theory and hypothesis. Though the inferences which

have occasionally drawn seem warranted by the facts that

have presented themselves, yet are they offered with the

greatest diffidence. Sensible of the uncertainty attendant

on experiments, liable not only to the influence of latent,

and perhaps inscrutable, causes in the element in which

they have been tried, but subject also to every variation of
the atmosphere, it would have been rashness and pre

sumption to have spoken with absolute decision on points

which possibly may yet require many years, if not ages,

to determine.
APPENDIX.  363

                                G.

  MANCHESTER MEMORIAL, AUGUST, 1807.

                                       (See p. 222.)

To His Grace the Duke of Portland, First Lord, and the
     other Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury.

   The Memorial of the undersigned inhabitants of the
town and neighbourhood of Manchester,

       Sheweth, --
   That the great advantages which have arisen to this
country from the increase of its manufactures, and the
consequent extension of its commerce, have been chiefly
derived from the application of the powers of water and
steam to the operations of spinning and weaving, which
before were performed by the slow, expensive, and less
effectual strength of man.
   That the Reverend Edmund Cartwright, D.D., by his
various useful inventions to render the process of weaving
practicable by the above powers, as well as by his ma
chines for combing wool, and other mechanical inventions
for the improvement of British manufactures, has ren
dered most essential services to this country.
   That the continued application of Dr. Cartwright to
the discovery and improvement of these inventions, has not
only deprived him of the pecuniary advantages which he
might have derived from them, but has caused him to ex
pend a large private fortune in bringing to perfection his

valuable inventions.
364  APPENDIX.

   That, under these circumstances, your Memorialists
humbly hope that Government will be pleased to reward
his important services with some substantial mark of their
favour and the gratitude of the country.

Peter Marsland.            Ottiwell Wood.
                           John Lowe.
Samuel Oldknow.            Josephus Smith.
John Marsland.             Thomas Tipping.
                           James Heald.
J.Hen. and Barton & Co.    Henry Fielding & Brothers.
                           William Starkie.
B. H. Green.
John Fisher.               G. Philips.
Nathaniel Gould.           John Atkinson.
                           John Close.
Samuel Greg.               Thomas Drinkwater.
Peter Ewart.
                           Ch. Fred. Brand & Co.
J. Jackson.
                           R. and J. Jackson.
Richard Rushford.
                           Charles Wood & Co.
J. Gill.                   Samuel Peel.
                           James Touchet.
W. Potter.                 Joshua Barnsley.
                           William Mitchell.
Roger Holland.             Entwistles & Steirtivant.
Horrocks & Co., Preston.   W. Myers and Nephew.

J. Watson & Sons,Preston.  Joseph Siddon, borough-
                              reeve of Manchester.
Paul Cotterall and Co.,

   Preston.

Sidgreaves, Leighton, and
   Co., Preston.

Riley ,Paley,&Co.Preston.
Robert and W. Jarrett.
APPENDIX.  365

                             H.

   LIST OF DR. CARTWRIGHT'S PATENTS.

 A1. machine for weaving, April 4, 1785.

 2. Improvements in the same, October 30, 1786.
 3. Further improvements, August 1, 1787.
 4. Further improvements, November 13, 1788.
 5. Wool-combing machine, August 22, 1789.
 6. Further improvements in wool-combing, April 27,

             1790.

 7. Further improvements, December 11, 1790.
 8. For manufacturing wool, hemp, flax, &c, into yarn,

         twist, ropes, &c, May 15, 1792.
 9. Improvement in the form of bricks, April 14, 1795.
10. Incombustible material for dwelling-houses, October

            11, 1797.
11. Steam-engine, November 11, 1797. .
12. Improvements in steam-engines, February 5, 1801.

r2
                  INDEX.

Agriculture, Mr. Cartwright's Essay on, 203.

Archimedes screw applied by Fulton to propelling vessels,

         144, 154.

Arkwright, Sir B., introduces machine spinning, 55.
Armine and Elvira published, 13, 305.
Arts, Society of, Mr. Cartwright's memorial to, 162; he ob

       tains a medal from, 205.

Baines' History of Cotton Manufacture quoted, 219, 223.

Bardsley, Dr. S. A., his exertions in Dr. Cartwright's fa

     vour, 220 ; his correspondence with Dr. C, 274, 277,

       294 -, his letter to S. Oldknow, Esq. 299.
Bedford, Francis, Duke of, 204.

Big Ben, name given to Mr. Cartwright's wool-combing ma

chine, 103, 105.

Biographers, advice to, 101.                             203,
Bishop Blaize, 96 ; feast in honour of, 105.
Board of Agriculture adjudges prizes to Mr. Cartwright,

        206, 210.

Boat, Diving, Mr. Fulton's, 157.

Borneo, importance of, 269.

Bread-making machine, Mr. Cartwright's, 200.

Bricks, Mr. Cartwright's patent, 115, 334.
Browne, Hawkins, his " Essays" noticed, 283.
INDEX.  367

Carriage, Locomotive, Dr. Cartwright's, 276.

Cartwrigb.t family, history of, 4, 298.
Cart-wright, John, (afterwards Major,) letter from, 10; his

      action for invasion of patents, 174 ; his evidence before

       Parliament, 190 ; letter to, 257.
Cartwright, Edmund, birth of, 4 ; entered at University Col

       lege, Oxford, 6 ; publishes poems, 9, 13, 305 ; marries,
       and resides at Brampton, 18 ; cures fevers by yeast, 22 ;
       removes to Goadley, Marwood, 29; contributes to the
      Monthly Review, 30 ; Corresponds with Sir William
      Jones, 45, 328 ; intimacy with Mr. Crabbe, 47 ; his atten
       tion turned to mechanics, 54 ; constructs his first power-

       loom, 58 ; makes further improvements, 64 ; sends a
      specimen of cloth to Mrs. Crabbe, 70 ; removes to Don-
      caster, 70 ; erects a factory there, 76 ; letter from Dr.
      Thurlow, 77; encounters opposition, 80; publishes a
      new edition of his Poems, 89 ; first ideas for improving

       the steam-engine, 92 ; first patent for wool-combing, 96 ;
      further improvements in, 98 ; agrees with Messrs. Grim-
      shaws for power-looms to be used at Manchester, 107 -,
       misfortunes, 109 ; gives up his works at Doncaster, 110;
      his sonnet thereupon, 111 ; removes to London, 114; his
       patent bricks, 115, 334; incombustible material for
      houses, 119; application of the treadwheel to cranes, 120 ;
      his patent steam-engine, 122 ; improved rotatory engine,
      131 ; constructs a model of a steam-boat, 134 ; corres
     pondence with Mr. Fulton, 139 ; arbitrates respecting Mr.
      Fulton's diving-boat, 160; candidate for secretaryship of
      Society of Arts, 162; invasion of his patents, 173 ; trials
     respecting, 174 ; petitions Parliament for extension of his

    patents, 180; this object obtained, 196; letter to Sir J.

      Sinclair, 201 ; obtains a prize for an Essay on Agricul
      ture, 203 ; removes to Woburn, 204 ; obtains a medal
368  INDEX.

      from Society of Arts, 205 ; and from Board of Agricul
      ture, 206, 210, 337 ; correspondence with Sir H. Davy,
      206 ; takes degree of D.D., 210; publishes sonnets, 210 ;
      great increase of power-looms, 213; memorial from
       Manchester in his favour, 222, 361 ; obtains a grant
       from Parliament, 236 ; retires to Hollanden, 241 ; fattens
      sheep with sugar, 244; correspondence with Dr. Pear
      son, 246 ; Mr. Crabbe, 255 ; and Sir Stamford Raffles,
      251 ; remedy for mildew, 259, 274 ; elected F.R.S., 263 ;
      correspondence with Dr. Bardsley, 274, 277 ; his loco
      motive carriage, 276 ; his theory of the planetary system,
       284 ; his explosive engine, 289 ; declining health, 296 ;
      decease, 297 ; notices of his life, 298.
Cibber's Lives of the Poets, 34.
Climacteric Thoughts, Poem on, 212.
Cordelier, Mr. Cartwright's, 333.
Crabbe, George, author of the " Candidate," 38 ; intimacy
      with Mr. Cartwright, 47 ; letters from, 50, 68, 75 ; ex
      tract from his " Life," 243 ; letter to, 255.
Cranes, Mr. Cartwright's application of the treadwheel to, 120.

Da vies, Mr. Thomas, his letter to Mr. Griffiths, 32.
Davy, Sir H., Mr. Cartwright's correspondence with, 206 ;

       his notes on manures, 336.
Diving-boat, Mr. Fulton's, 157.
Doncaster, Mr. Cartwright's mill at, 76 ; relinquished, 110.
Dry rice of Sumatra, how cultivated, 265.
Durham, Bishop of, his letter to Mr. Cartwright, 77.

Engine, explosive, Dr. Cartwright's plan for, 289.

Factory system not necessarily demoralizing, 88, 228.

Fever, putrid, cured by yeast, 22 .
INDEX.                                               369

Forgery of bank-notes, suggestion for preventing, 256, 269.
Fulton, Robert, his plan for steam-navigation, 134, 144, 154;

      correspondence with Mr. Cartwright, 139 ; his rope-
       making machine, 146 ; his diving-boat, 157 ; negotiations
      with government, 160.
Fly-shuttle invented by Mr. Kay, 63.

Griffiths, Mr., his correspondence with Mr. Cartwright

        30, 90.

Grimshaws, Messrs., agree with Mr. Cartwright for use of his
       power-looms, 107, 223 ; their factory burnt down, 188,

        226.
Gunpowder, engine to be worked by, 289.

Hand-loom described, 60.
Hasledine, Dr., his letter to Mr. Cartwright, 9.
Hulls, Jonathan, his plan of steam-navigation, 137.

Incombustible material for houses, 119.

Java, cession of, to the Dutch, 267.                 42 ; his
Jones, Sir W., a candidate for Oxford university,

      letters to Dr. Cartwright, 45, 328.

Langhobne, Dr., his friendship for Dr. Cartwright, 6 ; let
       ters from, 12, 20.

Literature, Royal Society of, 279.
Living authors, number of, 286.
Locomotive carriage, Dr. Cartwright's, 276.
Loom, Power--See Power-loom.
Loom, hand, described, 60.

Machinery, its influence upon society, 84 ; increases the
       demand for labour, 202.
370                  INDEX.

Manchester, memorial from, in Dr. Cartwright's favour,

        222, 361.

Manures, Mr. Cartwright's prize essay on, 206, 337.
Marsland, Mr. P., 216.
Material, incombustible, for houses, 1 19.
Mildew in wheat, Dr. Cartwright's remedy for, 254, 259, 274.
Monthly Review, Mr. Cartwright writes for it, 30.
Montgomery, James, letter to, 16.

Oldknow, Samuel, Dr. Bardsley's letter to, 299.

Paper, East Indian plants used in making, 270.

Parliament, Mr. Cartwright's petition to, for extension of

                                         it,

                                                ;
                                                      ;

                                                                                           ;
patents, 180 ; petitions against         193 petition to, for

remuneration for power-loom, 222 grant from, to Dr.

Cartwright, 236.

Patents, list of Dr. Cartwright's, 365.

Patent rights, Mr. Cartwright's action for invasion of, 174

insecurity of, 295.

Patent for wool-combing renewed by Parliament, 196.

Pearson, Dr., corresponds with Dr. Cartwright, 247,259,291.

Perceval, Mr., proposes remuneration to Dr. Cartwright, 239.

Piston, metallic, Mr. Cartwright's, 131, 152.

Planetary system, Dr. Cartwright's new theory of. 284.

Plough, Mr. Cartwright's three-furrow, 205.

Potatoes, Mr. Cartwright's prize essay on, 210.

Power-loom, first attempted by Mr. Cartwright, 58, 63 im
     a
                                         ;

                                                      ;
                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                    ;
provements on, 64, 330; extensive use of, 214; supe

riority of, to hand-loom, 229 present amount of, 240.

Prince of Peace, Poem, by Mr. Cartwright, 14.

Radcliffe, Mr. W., his machine for dressing warps, 218

      his evidence before Parliament, 230 his misfortunes, 235.
INDEX.  371

Raffles, Sir Stamford, his correspondence with Dr. Cart-
      wright, 251, 263.

Reaping machine, Mr. Cartwright's, 201.
Rope-making machine, Mr. Fulton's, 146 ; Mr. Cartwright's,

        333.

Rotatory engine, Mr. Cartwright's improved, 131.
Royal Society of Literature, 279.
Russell, Lord John, Dr. Cartwright's letters to, 210.

Salt, use of, as a manure, 209, 339 ; as a remedy for mil

       dew, 254, 259, 274.
Scott, Sir Walter, his opinion of Armine and Elvira, 18.

Shiells, Robert, a contributor to the " Lives of the Poets," 36.

Sir J. Sinclair, letter to, 201.

Spinning by machinery introduced by Sir R. Arkwright, 55 ;
       great extension of, 231.

Stanhope, Earl of, his apprehensions respecting Mr. Fulton's
       diving-boat, 159.

Steam-engine, Mr. Cartwright's first ideas for improving, 92 ;
       first patent for, 122 ; description of, 128; not invented
       by Watt, 195.

Steam navigation, Mr. Cartwright's plan for, 134 ; Mr. Ful
       ton's, 134, 144, 154 ; success of, 285.

Stewart's History of the steam-engine quoted, 123, 137.
Sugar, experiments on fattening sheep with, 244.
Sympathy, sonnet on, 211.

Taylob, Charles, elected Secretary of Society of Arts, 172.
Taylor, Joseph, his evidence before Parliament, 222.
Thurlow, Dr., his letter to Mr. Cartwright, 77.
TreadwheeL Mr. Cartwright's application of, to cranes, 120.

Waixich, Dr., on plants for making paper, 270.
Warp, Mr. Radcliffe's machine for dressing, 218.

                                                                  ,'
372  INDEX.

Weaving by hand, 60 ; by machinery -- see Power-loom.
Wheat, mildew in, Dr. Cartwright's remedy for, 254, 259, 274.
Woburn, Mr. Cartwright's residence at, 205.
Wool-combing machine, Mr. Cartwright's earliest patent for,

       96 ; last improvements in, 98 ; patent rights invaded,
       174 ; patent rights renewed, 196.
Wray, Rev. W. A., letter to, 71.
Wyatt, Mr. James, 114.
Wyatt, W. H., editor of the Repertory of Arts, 118.

Yeast, a cure for putrid fever, 22.

     ERRATA.

     Page 5, line 11, for Ay ho, read Aynho.
     10, -- 6, -- four,      -- five.

     74, -- 11, -- in which, -- and in the evidence before

                             parliament.

     98, -- 14, -- 25th,     -- 15th.

     103, -- 17, -- nine,    -- eight.
     193, -- 16, -- effect,  -- affect.

     T, C. Savill, Printer, 107, St. Martin's Lane.
the charge, book must be brought to the dr

TWO WEEK BOOK

          ,,OT · -T,,rN B00KJ QN SUNDAy

                          ,T PUE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
   3 9015 06439 7048

                        <

