Memoir of John Aubrey, F.R.S., embracing his auto-biographical
sketches, a brief review of his personal and literary merits, and
an account of his works; with extracts from his correspondence,
anecdotes of some of his contemporaries, and of the times in which
he lived. By John Britton ... Pub. by the Wiltshire topographical society.

Britton, John, 1771-1857.
London, Printed by J.B. Nichols and son, 1845.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044019027788

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
                                                                       ^H

                                                         M

/

                                                                                      I

                                                            II
3r 4121,5
   #-

              HARVARD

           LCIOLLEGE

                                                         FROM THE

                        Subscription Fund

                                                     BEGUN IN 1858
WILTSHIRE TOPOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY.

                                        Datrott.
  THE MOST NOBLE THE MARQUESS OF LANSDOWNE.

                               fllmiornt.
THE MOST NOBLE THE MARQUESS OF NORTHAMPTON.

                                Vict-tyvt#itmit#.
                The Right Honourable Earl de Grey.
            The Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Salisbury.
   The Right Honourable Sir John Cam Hobhouse, Bart. M.P.

                            Robert Gordon, Esq. M.P.
                                 Joseph Neeld, Esq. M.P.

                        Geo. Poulett Scrope, Esq. M.P.

J. Y. Akerman, Esq. F.S.A.         Council.
                                           The Very Rev. the Dean of Hereford,
George Alexander, Esq. F.S.A.
Sir Edmund Antrobus, Bart.                         D.D. F.S.A. F.R.S.
John Britton, Esq. F.S.A., &c.              The Rev. James Ingram, D.D.
W. R. Browne, Esq.                         Dr. Merriman.
Wm. H. Ludlow Bruges, Esq. M.P.            Richard Mullings, jun. Esq.
Alfred Caswall, Esq.                       Edward Mullins, Esq.
Edward Merrick Elderton, Esq.
George Godwin, Esq. F.R.S. F.S.A.         J. B. Nichols, Esq. F.S.A.
Henry Merrik Hoare, Esq.                   The Rev. Thos. Rees, LL.D. F.S.A. F.G.S.
                                           T. Bush Saunders, Esq. M.A.

                            Crrauurer.                   Inn.
                   Sir Edmund Antrobus, Bart.

                 1l)onc raiy &ttvttavit#,

       John Britton, Esq. F.S.A. Burton-street, London.
George Alexander, Esq. F.S.A. Architect, 9, Clement's

E. W. Brayley, Esq. F.S.A.               3ubitor0.       | J. Hulbert, Esq.

                                   | Thomas Howse, Esq.

                           fiaUis aim tXtgulationt,
ADOPTED AT A GENERAL MEETING OF THE MEMBERS, JUNE 13. 1840.

    George Poulett Scrope, Esq. M.P. in the Chair.

I. That an association of Gentlemen be established, and called " The Wiltshire Topographical

Society."                                                                                    Historical and

  II. That the object of the Society be to collect materials for, and publish occasionally,

Descriptive Accounts, either illustrated, or otherwise, of places and things in the County of Wilts, and the

adjacent Districts, which have not hitherto been satisfactorily elucidated.

  III. That the subjects of inquiry, description, and historical disquisition comprehend --the Boundaries,

Civil Divisions, and Natural Scenery of the county ; Geology, Mineralogy, Botany, Zoology, Agriculture,

Manufactures, and Commerce ; accounts of the Chief Towns, Boroughs, and Villages ; Seats of the Nobility
and Gentry ; Civil History and Antiquities ; remains and memorials of the ancient British, Roman, Saxon,

and Norman inhabitants ; Manors, manorial privileges and customs, descent, and present state of manorial
property ; Genealogies of distinguished families, and Biographical Memoirs of Eminent Natives ; Ecclesiastical

History, Edifices, and Antiquities ; Ecclesiastical Endowments and Charitable Foundations :--together with other

matters usually comprised under the heads of Archaeology, Topography, Statistics, Parochial and County History.

   IV. That the Society be limited to 500 Members.
   V. That the qualification of Members be a periodical Subscription of One Guinea, to be paid in advance.
The payment of Ten Guineas at one time to constitute a Member for Life.
   VI. That every Member be entitled to receive one copy of the publications of the Society.
  VII. That no Subscriber shall be entitled to vote at General Meetings, or receive a copy of the publi
cations of the Society, whose Subscription remains in arrear two months after it has become due, and has been

applied for by some person authorised to receive the same.

   VIII. That the management of the Society be vested in a Council, consisting of a President, six Vice-

Presidents, and eighteen other Members ; of whom one shall be nominated Treasurer, and two Honorary

Secretaries.

   IX. That the President, Treasurer, and Secretaries be Trustees for the Society.
   X. That three members of the Society be annually appointed Auditors.
   XI. That a certain portion of the Council be changed periodically, viz. : the President every second year ;

and one of the Vice-Presidents, and four ordinary Members of the Council, annually ; the retiring individuals

to be named by the Council, but to be re-eligible to the same offices.

   XII. That the funds of the Society be at the disposal of the Council, to pay the necessary expenses of

managing its affairs, and of producing such literary and graphic works as may be selected and ordered by them.

   XIII. That the Council shall manage and direct all the usual and necessary business of the Society ; as to

publications, meetings, correspondence, appointment of Provincial Secretaries, employment of assistants, and all

other matters connected with the government and operations of the Society.

   XIV. That the Council have power to make such By-Laws and Regulations as they may deem expedient
for the good government of the Society, and conducive to its general interests ; provided such By-Laws are in

accordance with the Laws made at any General Meeting of the Members.

   XV. That an Annual General Meeting be held in each year, on the first Saturday in June, when the

Officers of the Society, in the place of those who retire from office, shall be elected ; Auditors appointed for the

ensuing year ; Reports read from the Council and Auditors of the accounts and proceedings of the preceding

year ; and such other business transacted as may be necessary.

   XVI. That the Council be authorised to commence, as soon as convenient, the formation of a Topographical
Library of Books, Manuscripts, Drawings, Prints, &c. relating to Wiltshire and to the immediate vicinity ;

and also of such publications as relate to the General Topography and Archaeology of Great Britain. That

this collection be open for reference to all the Members, and to strangers by their orders, under certain regu

lations to be prescribed by the Council ; and that Donations to the Library be acknowledged at each annual
meeting, also in the printed works of the Society, and by appropriate notices affixed to each article.
              REPORT OF THE COUNCIL

              ANNUAL MEETING, 7th JUNE, 1845.

   In submitting the Fifth Annual Report to the Members of the Society, the Council have the satisfaction
of stating that the second volume of their publications will be distributed at the end of the present month,

and from the interesting nature of the subject it embraces, and the labour and experience devoted to it by its

author, they reasonably anticipate a work which will prove both creditable to that gentleman and to the Society.

To all lovers of historical and archaeological literature, the name, and something of the merits, of John
Aubrey have long been familiar ; but it has remained for the Wiltshire Topographical Society to bring

him fully and critically before the public. Hence the Council entertain the hope and belief, that this portion

of their works will be duly appreciated by the members, and by all critical readers. But for the establishment

of this Society the Memoir of Aubrey might not have been published ; and it will be found in the pages of
the volume, that his life was laudably and zealously devoted to the collection and preservation of useful and

valuable information, especially on matters relating to the topography of Wiltshire. Had his relatives and
descendants been actuated by the same feelings, --the same love of " things rare, and interesting," -- we should

not have had to deplore the loss of many of his writings ; together with numerous objects of vertu and value.
Even within the last few years, the original manuscript of one of his most valuable literary works has

disappeared, and whether it be only mislaid, or entirely destroyed, remains in doubt. This, which extended to
four folio volumes, was entitled Monumenta Britannica, and consisted of remarks on Celtic and other British

antiquities.  It is hoped, however, that the publicity produced by Mr. Britton's Memoir, and the extensive

inquiries which he has instituted both in town and country, will be the means of rescuing this important

manuscript from irretrievable destruction.

   In the last Report the Council announced the speedy publication of the History of Kington St. Michael,
with a Life of John Aubrey. In producing the latter independently of, and detached from, the former, they
avail themselves of the following explanation by Mr. Britton. " In classing and arranging my manuscript

Imaterials on Kington and Aubrey, found those relating to the Provincial Topographer and Antiquary so
Icopious and interesting, and so well calculated to make a separate and complete volume, that determined to

digest and arrange them for the press, in the first instance ; leaving the History, &c. of my native parish, for sub

sequent consideration and more leisure moments. Towards the latter volume a very correct map, with engravings

of the exterior and interior of the church, have been executed and printed ; and ample materials are collected
Ifor the Topographical History.
                                 do not anticipate any difficulty in having the whole printed in the ensuing
Iwinter, if required ; but it would give me, as know it would many other Members of the Society, much

pleasure to see the History of Castle Combe first produced."  With reference to the work here referred to by

Mr. Britton, the Council are authorised by Mr. Scrope to state that he calculates it will be ready for

publication before the next Anniversary ; and they look forward to it as likely to contain much interesting

matter, and thereby to advance the objects of the Society. The Council have it in contemplation to follow up

that work by the publication of the very interesting Manuscript by Aubrey on the Natural History of Wiltshire.
   It cannot be irrelevant for the Council to remark that a taste or fashion for Antiquarian Literature has

lately been popularised, by the establishment and influence of the Camden, Shakspere, Percy, Parker, Surtees,

and other Societies, in London, Oxford, Cambridge, Exeter, and elsewhere ; all calculated to promote laudable

research, and a desire to preserve and disseminate that information which tends to elucidate the manners,

customs, and characters of former generations. Still there is ample scope for provincial Associations, to
encourage Topographical and Architectural inquiry and publication. The Council of this Society are not

a little anxious to show, to the natives of Wiltshire in particular, and to the reading public generally, what

may be effected by union and co-operation.  If the nobility and gentry of this opulent and extensive county

could be prevailed on to view the subject in its proper light, and support the Society, by a small annual sub

scription, and also by occasional advocacy amongst their immediate connection, a considerable sum would thereby

be raised, and a succession of useful and valuable works be speedily produced. The Memoir of Aubrey about

to be distributed, furnishes curious and interesting facts and opinions on this subject, by showing what was

done, or attempted to be done, more than a century and a half ago. Bishop Tanner speaks feelingly and

sorrowfully of the apathy of the public towards such literary works as those by Aubrey, Dugdale, Plot,
Spelman, Gale, Raleigh, and himself ; and says, that " the Decern. Scriptores, and the Monasticon, volumes

now worth old gold, had never been printed, had not the former been carried on by a public fund ; the other

Iby the sole charges of the Editor.  hope to see the Monumenta Britannica in as good vogue as the best of

them." (Sec Memoir of Aubrey, p. 66.) This sentence is full of matter for meditation, and suggestive of
good council. Had Aubrey's Monumenta Britannica, here noticed by the learned prelate, been then

printed, its utility and influence on the public would have produced important results ; and the varied informa

tion it contained would have been perpetuated. There is, however, much reason to fear that it is now lost.

The Council have to regret the loss of some members by death, and others from secession ; but they indulge

a hope that their places will soon be supplied by new members, and that many more may voluntarily come
forward to join and strengthen the Society. " Union is Strength ;" and it requires but a very trifling amount

of money and zeal, to make the Wiltshire Topographical Society effective, and eminently beneficial.

IThe Balance Sheet for the year shows that the Society has 111 17s. 6d. in the Treasurer's possession, and

in the Bank.                                J(Signed

                                                      J. BRITTON,
                                                      G. ALEXANDER,

                                                      Honorary Secretaries.

7 th June, 1845.

SUBSCRIPTIONS received by the Bankers to the Society, Coutts and Co. 59, Strand ; by the Honorary Secretaries,
                                                  the Treasurer, and the other Members of the Council.
Enarwmi'fcyJF.Waastatfrf.ema firamnabvFaitJwmaettfcJshtckm .-kfiueum

                 , tioni A I; 1C.2J . l,i"J WO/i

    I'.'r battel.1 1.rrr<, .i.,-·.'A' n'rtev fc'tshir. Isrcirafht.'sJ \-a,1\
                 MEMOIR

JOHN                                OP                          F. R. S.

            AUBREY,

                      EMBRACING HIS

                           AUTO-BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES,

A BRIEF REVIEW OF HIS PERSONAL AND LITERARY MERITS,
                     AND AN ACCOUNT OF HIS WORKS;

                                                                        WITH

                          Extract* from fjia <rovmponarnrr,

     ANECDOTES OF SOME OF HIS CONTEMPORARIES,

                      AND OF THE TIMES IN WHICH HE LIVED.

                                                                          by

                     JOHN BRITTON, F. S. A., &c.

Lower Easton-Pierse,Wiltshire, the birth-place of John Aubrey.

IPublisbco  bj>  the QHiltsftite tjopourapfnca! ^ocietr.

                    LONDON:

PRINTED BY J. B. NICHOLS AND 90N, 35, PARLIAMENT STREET.

                                      1845.
HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY
           SEP 12 1916

   SUBSCRIPTION OF 1916
              TO THE MOST NOBLE,

HENRY, MARQUESS OF LANSDOWNE,

              &c. &c. &c.         ,

                           AS PATRON OF THE WILTSHIRE TOPOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY ;

      AS RESIDING IN THE VICINITY OF THE NATAL HOME OF JOHN AUBREY, AND OF THE
                                             AUTHOR OF THE PRESENT MEMOIR ;

                         AS A LOVER OF GENERAL LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS ;

AND AS A STATESMAN WHO HAS EVER ACTED WITH CONSISTENCY AND DEVOTED ATTENTION
                                 TO THE WELFARE AND HONOUR OF HIS COUNTRY,
                                                THIS VOLUME IS INSCRIBED,

                                   WITH SENTIMENTS OF SINCERE RESPECT AND ADMIRATION,

                                     BY THE AUTHOR.

March, 1845.
                    PREFACE.

   Anxiously desiring to see the Wiltshire Topographical Society in active and
useful operation, I regret that my intended, and long promised, History and
Description of the Parish of Kington St. Michael has been from time to time

delayed, by illness, and such pressing avocations, as have hitherto prevented my
proceeding with it.

  I have always contemplated, as a portion of that work, a biographical notice of

John Aubrey, who was a native of the parish ; considering such notice to be an

essential feature of the publication. No topographical work can be deemed com
plete without authentic accounts of those persons who, by their acts and deeds,
their genius and talents, or any other qualities, whether of good or evil, have con
ferred importance or notoriety upon the locality referred to, either as the place of
their birth or temporary abode : and this principle is sanctioned by the authority
and practice of all modern topographers and county historians. A place may con
fer an honorary title and some distinction on a person who has no other claims to
popularity ; but the talents and fame of the man generally stamp importance and
interest on his birth-place. Stratford is noted for its Shakspeare, Lichfield for
Garrick and Johnson, Woolsthorpe for Newton, and Knoyle for Wren.

   In examining the published accounts of John Aubrey's literary and personal

career, I soon found that several of the circumstances and dates mentioned in

them were inconsistent, contradictory, and improbable, and appeared to rest on
slight foundations; --that the information to be gathered from them was very
unsatisfactory and imperfect ; and that an attentive perusal even of his printed

works, would supply better details of his life and actions. I had long possessed some
VI PREFACE.

extracts of a personal nature from his manuscripts in the Ashmolean Museum, Ox
ford, and was persuaded that a careful examination, not only of those papers --of
which, in fact, no complete list has hitherto been printed -- but of his writings in
other places, was essential to the preparation of a correct and judicious bio

graphy.

   Although at the risk of extending this Memoir to a length which might be

deemed disproportionate to its importance, I resolved to undertake such examination

and scrutiny : and have consequently reconciled many apparent contradictions,
and corrected many errors, in former memoirs ; besides meeting with some addi
tional circumstances of great value, as illustrating not merely Aubrey's life and
writings, but the state of society in general, and especially the literary opinions and
tone, of the seventeenth century.

  IIt is true have not been able to present a minute chronological narrative, such

as Evelyn, Pepys, Ashmole, Wood, Dugdale, Thoresby, and some others, have
afforded by their journals or memorandum-books. Each of those distinguished
persons bequeathed to posterity valuable and interesting Diaries and Auto
biographies, referring to their various public works and private habits, as well as

to their " sayings and doings ; " whence we are enabled to understand and
appreciate their peculiar characteristics, almost as if we had been personally
familiar with them. The celebrated Dr. Stukeley, --who was a zealous and inde
fatigable collector and recorder of opinions and events, --left a similarly minute
account of all that he saw and learned, during his long intercourse with antiquaries,
historians, and other men of letters and science. These memoranda, occupying
several quarto and octavo volumes, together with a series of letters addressed to the
Doctor by eminent persons, and a collection of his miscellaneous writings, have
been many years in my possession : and they would have been given to the world,

had I been insured against the risk of loss from their publication. Aubrey himself

appears to have kept a Diary ; but neither this nor many others of his private
papers, have been preserved ; and, except as to the events mentioned in his auto-
PREFACE.  Vll

biographical memoranda, I have been compelled to glean the facts here laid before

the public, from his correspondence, and from incidental passages and occasional
reminiscences in various parts of his works.

   By the course thus adopted, I have produced at least a consistent and authentic
memoir ; and if it tends to increase the reputation of John Aubrey as a zealous
and industrious antiquary, and an honourable and upright man, I shall be rewarded

for the labour it has involved.

   Himself a judicious and discriminating biographer, it is remarkable that Aubrey

should have been so slightly noticed by those who have professed to write accounts

of his life and literary works. A short notice of these will shew what has been the

result of their labours. Some Account of this Work and its Author, was prefixed
by Dr. Richard Rawlinson, of St. John's College, Oxford, to Aubrey's History of

Surrey, which the learned Doctor published, with additions by himself, in the year
1719. This was the earliest memoir of Aubrey ; and it was founded in part on in

formation given to Dr. Rawlinson " by a very worthy gentleman, a native of Wilt
shire," who derived his materials " from Mr. Aubrey's own writing, as well as from
some printed authorities." Dr. Rawlinson also alludes to " a reverend divine

from Kington St. Michael's," as giving him other information. The memoir,

however, is extremely incorrect in many parts. The next account was called, Some
Memoirs of the Life of Mr. John Aubrey, and was published in his Miscellanies,
2nd edition, 1721. The author of the article Aubrey, in the Biographia Britan-
nica (1747), conjectures that it was by the same writer as the previous memoir.

It is shorter, but in many parts a mere transcript of Dr. Rawlinson's paper;

and although in one passage an error in the first notice is corrected, in another

place a date, before correctly given, is perverted. The article in the Biographia
Britannica was probably written by Dr. Kippis, and is certainly compiled with

care and discrimination. It corrects some of the most palpable errors of Dr.

Rawlinson, and points out their origin : but, whilst it affords a favourable view
of the literary merits of our antiquary, it adds little or nothing to the previous
accounts of his personal character. Thomas Warton, in his Life of Bat hurst (8vo.
Vlll PREFACE.

1761), speaks highly of Aubrey's industry and learning, and had evidently examined
some of his manuscripts at Oxford, but he merely mentions him incidentally. Jointly

with William Huddesford, of Trinity College, Oxford, Warton edited the Lives of
Leland, Hearne, and Wood (2 vols. 8vo. 1/72) ; and in a note to the auto-biography

of the last writer they directed public attention to Aubrey's papers, by giving an
imperfect list of them. The works of Granger, Chalmers, and indeed all the principal
Biographical Dictionaries and Encyclopaedias, since Aubrey's time, foreign as well as
English, contain notices of him : but, passing over most of these, and merely remark
ing that the memoir in Malcolm's Lives of Topographers (4to. 1815), is the most in

accurate and careless of any that have been written, I may advert with very different

feelings to the articles in the Penny Cyclopadia, in Rose's Biographical Dictionary,
and in the Biographical Dictionary published by the Society for the Diffusion of
Useful Knowledge : the first, written by G. L. Craik ; the second, by the Rev. Joseph

Hunter, ; and the third, by J. T. Stanesby. These manifest an earnest desire for

precise and literal accuracy ; and, though in each some of the errors of the former
Lives are retained, they are undoubtedly the best accounts of Aubrey hitherto pub
lished. Mr. Stanesby's article calls for especial commendation ; and it is only to be
regretted that the nature of the work of which it forms a part, forbade that minute
research and exposition which, with greater latitude of time and space, would have
enabled the writer to have formed an interesting and complete memoir.

   I may here observe, as a singular feature in the previous biographies of Aubrey,

that the date of his birth has been erroneously stated in some of them ; and that,
until now, neither the day nor even the year of his death, nor the place of his
interment, has been correctly ascertained. After a series of inquiries in many
quarters, as to his death and burial, resulting only in disappointment, it was at

last almost by accident, that I was directed, by a manuscript note of Dr. Rawlin-

son's, to the church of St. Mary Magdalene, at Oxford ; on searching the registers
of which, Dr. Ingram found the record of his burial. It is surprising that a man
so well known to the literati of Oxford should quit the scene of life thus unre
garded by his contemporaries and immediate successors, and that nearly a century
and a half should have elapsed before the publication of this obituary record.
                                    PREFACE.  IX

That the present memoir has been the result of extensive and diligent research

and inquiry must be apparent to every reader : that it is not more copious and

complete, no one can regret more than myself; for the subject and the times to

which it refers are replete with interest, as well as with important matter for the

consideration of the biographer and historian : and materials for their further

elucidation once existed, and perhaps are still concealed in some obscure, unexplored

repository. I have devoted many years to inquiry and collection, and sought for
Iinformation from every available source. In some instances, indeed, have to

apprehend that such inquiries have been deemed impertinent, or too troublesome to

Ibe noticed ; as have written letters to two principal descendants of the Aubrey

Ifamily without obtaining replies.  have been likewise unsuccessful in procuring

any account either of the present owner of the Monumenta Britannica (mentioned
in page 87), or of its condition. On the death of Mr. Churchill, of Henbury, the

Dorsetshire parts of his library and property were sold by auction, and it is not

unlikely that the manuscript referred to was amongst the objects then disposed of.

Some of the unsold books descended to his cousin the late Sir Charles Greville, and

from that Baronet were transferred to his brother, the present Earl of Warwick,

who, in answer to my application, very promptly and politely writes, that he
cannot find any trace of the Aubrey manuscript in his collection.* It is lamentable

and surprising that four volumes of such writings should thus be so heedlessly

neglected, and perhaps lost.

   However indifferent and apathetic the great bulk of the nobility, gentry, and
clergy of the county of Wilts may be to the literature which is devoted to its
history and antiquities, or to the Society which is now formed to promote inquiry
on those topics, and to publish the results ; the time will soon arrive, when a better
and more enlightened policy and practice must arise ; for the effects of literature
and mental improvement on the human race seem to be almost commensurate
with those of steam on commerce, trade, and the social condition of man. Ignorance

   I* have also been aided in my fruitless search after this manuscript by the Rev. W. Churchill, of Colliton,
Dorsetshire, by S. H. Gummer, Esq. of Bridport, J. S. Wickens, Esq. and Samuel Forster, Esq. of London.

                                                                                                                          b
X PREFACE.

will not only be regarded as disreputable, but as a moral vice : and a knowledge of
local history as an essential qualification to every person who aspires to a respectable
station in society.

    The labour and research bestowed upon the present volume fully exemplify the

remarks of the learned and experienced Bacon :--" Out of monuments, names,
words, proverbs, traditions, private records and evidences, fragments of stories,

passages of books, and the like, we do save and recover somewhat from the deluge

of time." -- On the Advancement of Learning, Book ii.

   In closing this explanatory notice, it is a pleasing duty to express my thanks to

P. B. Duncan, Esq. the Keeper, and to Mr. Kirtland, the Deputy Keeper, of the

Ashmolean Museum, for the courtesy with which they permitted ready access to, and
extracts to be made from, Aubrey's papers in that collection. Although the account

which I have given of those papers is more copious than originally intended, I can

not suppose it will in any way supersede or interfere with the catalogue of them

which I understand is preparing by W. H. Black, Esq.

   Although the fees for searching and examining the archives of that valuable

Museum are comparatively moderate, I think they should not be required from

professional authors ; for, added to travelling expenses, residence from home, &c.
such charges tend to make authorship expensive.

  I owe some valuable suggestions and improvements in this work to my friend

the Rev. Dr. Ingram, the President of Aubrey's College (Trinity), at Oxford, to

John Gough Nichols, Esq. F.S.A., and to Peter Cunningham, Esq.

  To Mr. T. E. Jones I am obliged for much useful aid, in searching for and col

lecting materials, from various public libraries, and from a vast mass of miscella
neous books and papers.
     ......CONTENTS.                                                                                      PACK

Title-page, Dedication, and Preface                                                                      i. -- x.

Chap. I. Auto-biography --Introductory notice of Aubrey's Literary Works, Correspondents, and
            Friends -- His Love of Antiquities --A Biographer and Topographer -- His History of
            Surrey, and Collections for Wiltshire -- His Credulity and Superstition--His Auto
            biographical Notes -- List of his Works
                                                     .  .  .  .  .                                .      1--20

Chap. II. Descent and Pedigree of Aubrey --John Aubrey's Birth-place -- His Infancy and School           21--41
               days --Is entered at Trinity College, Oxford, and the Middle Temple -- Commencement
               of the Civil Wars -- Discovery of Avebury --His Father's death -- His first literary
               works -- A member of a Republican Club --Journey to Ireland -- Interview with
             Charles II. at Avebury and Silbury Hill --Journey to France--Matrimonial projects .

Chap. III.  Aubrey's first meeting with Anthony a Wood --Wood's opinion of him-- Reverse of
            fortune -- Law-suits and pecuniary difficulties --Sells his estates --Progress of his works
            -- Assists Anthony a Wood in his publications-- Aubrey's predilection for Astrological       42--59
            studies -- His Perambulation of Surrey --Contributes an Engraving to Dugdale's Monas-
            ticon -- Receives a Protection from his Creditors -- Sells his books -- His Life of Hobbes
            -- Begins his " Lives of Eminent Men " and " Idea of Education of Young Gentlemen"
            -- Land given to him by William Penn -- His Mother's death

Chap. IV. Aubrey's bequest of his Wiltshire papers preparatory to visiting the West of England
            --Gives his manuscripts to the Ashmolean Museum --Correspondence with Dr. Gar
            den --Lends his works to his friends -- Their opinions --Quarrel with Anthony a Wood
            --Death of the latter--Aubrey publishes his " Miscellanies "-- His age and infirmities
            --Death and burial -- Summary of his personal character --List of his Portraits
                                                                                                 .       60--82

Chap. V. Brief description and analysis of the manuscript and printed works of John Aubrey               83--124

Index.  ......graved by C. E. Wagstaff

                ILLUSTRATIONS.
        ......(see pp. 25, 116)
........3. Horoscope of Aubrey's Nativity, drawn by himself. From the original in the Ashmolean
1. Portrait of John Aubrey, from a drawing by Faithorne, in the Ashmolean Museum, en

                                                                 To face Title-page.

2. View of Lower Easton-Pierse, the Birth-place of John Aubrey, from a Drawing by himself,

                                                                 Wood-cut in Title-page.

        Museum                                                      Wood-cut, p. 13.
:
                MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY, F.R.S.

AUTO-BIOGRAPHY INTRODUCTORY NOTICE OF AUBREY'S LITERARY WORKS, CORRESPONDENTS, . AND
       FRIENDS -- HIS LOVE OF ANTIQUITIES -- A BIOGRAPHER AND TOPOGRAPHER -- HIS HISTORY OF
       SURREY, AND COLLECTIONS FOR WILTSHIRE -- HIS CREDULITY AND SUPERSTITION -- HIS AUTO
        BIOGRAPHICAL NOTES LIST OF HIS WORKS.

  The Auto-biography of a person who has attained deserved distinction, if written

with honesty and judgment, is among the most useful and interesting of literary pro

ductions. If " the proper study of mankind be man," that study can never be better

or more profitably pursued than in the unprejudiced and unvarnished confessions of
one, who, having investigated his own moral and mental attributes, and those of hi?
associates, has learned to ·' know himself." Courage to acknowledge his own weak
nesses and errors, constitutes an essential item in the wisdom of man. As the
portrait of a great artist, by himself, is estimable and valuable, so is the auto-bio
graphy of any person who has rendered service to his species. Such portraits as
those of Titian, Rembrandt, Rubens, and Reynolds, by each of those accomplished
artists, make pleasurable and indelible impressions on the eye and memory ; and
such auto-biographies as those of Benvenuto Cellini, of Gibbon, of Hume, of Gifford,
and of Franklin, not only furnish valuable materials for the philosopher, but are
replete with interest and excitement, --with precept and example, -- with entertain
ment and instruction, to the general reader.

  If the following memoir be less attractive than either of those above referred to, it

will still afford some pleasing glimpses of an interesting period in the literary history
of England ; and it will be found to place in a favourable light the character of one
whose merits as an antiquary and as a man have not been hitherto sufficiently

acknowledged. The name of John Aubrey, though familiar to most antiquaries

and biographers, and duly appreciated by them, is perhaps unknown to many readers

                                                                                                                                                       B
2 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

of the present volume. Portions of his literary works have, it is true, been published ; *
but one of them was on a subject long since trodden down by the " march of intel
lect;" another has been superseded by more recent and superior publications on

the same theme ; and the rest, having only had a limited circulation, hold but a sub
ordinate place in the annals of fame.

To excite the curiosity of the general reader, and to point out the interest which

must attach to a narrative of Aubrey's career, it may be necessary to premise that

he was contemporary, and on intimate terms, with a great number of men illustrious
in science, philosophy, literature, and art.

</ To enumerate indeed the whole of his correspondents and familiar friends would

be to give a list of all the distinguished persons whose learning graced the latter half
of the seventeenth century/some of them, however, may be mentioned in proof of
this assertion. Connected himself with the Royal Society even before its incorpora

tion, and appointed a Fellow under the charter which was granted by King Charles

the Second, he was acquainted with its first President, Lord Brouncker, and still more

intimate with those ornaments and professors of practical science which that Society

fostered and encouraged; Newton, Halley, Flamsteed, Hooke, Wallis, Holder, Sir

   * The following are their title-pages. I. " Miscellanies : viz. i. Day Fatality, n. Local Fatality.
in. Ostenta. iv. Omens, v. Dreams, vi. Apparitions, vn. Voices, vm. Impulses, ix. Knockings.

x. Blows Invisible, xi. Prophecies, xn. Marvels, xm. Magic, xiv. Transportation in the Air.

xv. Visions in a Beril or Speculum, xvi. Converse with Angels and Spirits, xvn. Corpse Candles in

Wales, xvni. Oracles, xix. Ecstasies, xx. Glances of Love and Envy. xxi. Second-sighted Persons.

J.Collected by Aubrey, Esq. London. Printed for Edward Castle, next Scotland- Yard-Gate, by Whitehall,

1696." 12mo. Reprinted, with additions and alterations, in 1721 and 1784.  Begun in the year

  II. " The Natural History and Antiquities of the County of Surrey.

1673 by John Aubrey, Esq. F.R.S., and continued to the present time. Illustrated with proper sculptures.

London. Printed for E. Curll, in Fleet-street, 1719." 5 vols. 8vo.

  III. " Letters written by Eminent Persons in the Seventeenth and Eighteenth centu

ries : to which are added, Hearne's Journeys to Reading, and to Whaddon Hall, the Seat of Browne
Willis, Esq. and Lives of Eminent Men, by John Aubrey, Esq. The whole now first published from

the originals in the Bodleian Library and Ashmolean Museum, with biographical and literary illustrations ;

in two volumes. London. Printed for Longman and Co. 1813." 8vo.

  IV. " An Essay Towards the Description of the North Division of Wiltshire. By me

John Aubrey, of Easton Pierse. Typis Medio-Montanis, Impressit C. Gilmour, 1838." 4to. Printed for

Sir Thomas Phillipps, Bart.

  J.V. " Anecdotes and Traditions. Edited by W. Thorns. Printed for the Camden Society, 1839," 4to.

The second part of this volume contains sixty-nine short extracts from Aubrey's Manuscript " Remains of

Gentilisme," in the British Museum, with explanatory and illustrative notes by the Editor.
HIS LOVE OF ANTIQUARIAN PURSUITS.  3

William Petty, Evelyn, Sir Christopher Wren, Gale, Harvey, Ray, and many others.
Thomas Hobbes, and Sir James Harrington, William Penn, and Isaac Walton, honoured
him with their friendship, which was duly appreciated by him in return. The poets
Butler, Cowley, Denham, Waller, D'Avenant, and Dryden ; the antiquaries Dugdale,
Wood, Gibson, Tanner, Plot, and Llhwyd ; the artists Hollar, Cooper, Faithorne,
and Loggan, all held frequent intercourse with Aubrey, who was besides esteemed
and patronized by several of the prelates, judges, and enlightened nobles of the age.
His unpublished memoranda and correspondence contain varied and interesting
materials for further illustration of the characters and writings of many of those

celebrated men.

    The principal feature in John Aubrey's literary character was his love of antiqua
rian pursuits. He may be regarded as essentially an Archaologist, and the first person
in this country who fairly deserved the name. Historians, chroniclers, and topogra
phers there had been before his time ; but he was the first who devoted his studies
and abilities to archaeology, in its various ramifications of architecture, genealogy,

palaeography, numismatics, heraldry, &c. No one before him investigated or under
stood anything of the vast Celtic temple at Avebury, and other monuments of the
same class ; and certainly no person had preceded him in attempting to distinguish
the successive changes, in style and decoration, of ancient ecclesiastical edifices, or

to ascertain, by observing architectural features and details, to what era any par
ticular building belonged. Aubrey's remarks on this subject are certainly interest
ing, and their publication at the present day, when the study of architectural anti
quities is so deservedly general and popular, would add much to his credit as a
careful and discriminating observer and delineator of the peculiarities of Christian
architecture.* The present memoir will necessarily be too brief even for a short
analysis of them.

   It is hardly too much to say that modern antiquaries owe their knowledge of the

great Celtic temple, at Avebury, in Wiltshire, entirely to Aubrey. Had he not first
   * These papers descended from Mr. Awnsham Churchill, a celebrated bookseller of Aubrey's time, to the

late Wm. Churchill, Esq. of Henbury, in Dorsetshire, at whose death they appear to have been sold by auction.
They are a part of Aubrey's manuscript Monumenta Sritannica, abridgements of which are in the Bodleian
Library ; at Stourhead, Wilts ; and in my own collection.
4 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

called attention to that wonderful work, it may be doubted whether Dr. Stukeley
would afterwards have examined and described it ; and so many years might thus
have elapsed that successive mutilations would have rendered it impossible for more
recent writers to trace its original arrangement and extent. Aubrey too was the
first whose published opinion pronounced this monument, with Stonehenge and
similar stone circles, to be religious temples raised by the British Druids ; an opinion
which has since been more generally entertained by antiquaries than any of the
speculations before promulgated upon the subject. On this point, as in most of his
theories, regarding either the works of nature or of art, Aubrey's views were generally
useful, practical, and rational, and in these respects afford a striking contrast to
the visionary ideas of his learned and vigilant successor, Dr. Stukeley.

   To those who are already familiar with the name of Aubrey he is known as a
biographer and a topographer. In the former department his collections are
unquestionably valuable. It is impossible to read his biographical notices without
appreciating the industrious and pains-taking accuracy of his information, and at the
same time admiring the vivacious and animated manner in which the most minute
circumstances are narrated. With few and trifling exceptions, the sources from
which Aubrey gained his information stamp these notices with a character of
authenticity. It is not, perhaps, generally known how much, in these matters,
Anthony a Wood's valuable Athena and Fasti Oxonienses are indebted to his labours.

   Aubrey's History of Surrey, published by Dr. R. Rawlinson, with additions
by himself, was by no means equal to the elaborate topographical works of
Dugdale. Still it was an acceptable contribution to that class of literature; and
its accuracy in matters of detail is highly commended by Manning and Bray,
whose labours in the same field qualified them to form an opinion on the subject.
Aubrey's collections in illustration of the natural history, topography, and antiquities
of Wiltshire, his native county, are not only copious and valuable in themselves, but
highly interesting as the earliest extant. They were evidently executed con amore, and
with a competent knowledge of the subjects treated of ; which, as will be hereafter
shown, were not confined to architectural and genealogical details. One portion of
these collections has been published by Sir Thomas Phillipps, Bart. (Vide p. 2.)
RAY AND HEARNE S OPINIONS OF HIM.                                                                        5

   Though Aubrey appears to have resided chiefly in London, he was frequently in
Wiltshire and at Oxford, and travelled into South Wales, Surrey, Herefordshire, and
other parts of England, and once visited the continent. With a naturally curious
and inquiring mind, he lost no opportunity in these excursions of obtaining tradi
tionary and personal information. So early as the days of Hearne this peculiarity
had procured for him the character of a "foolish gossip;" indeed Ray, the dis

tinguished naturalist, in one of his letters to Aubrey, cautions him against a too easy
credulity. Influenced by a querulous passage in Anthony a Wood's Diary, some
recent writers have regarded him as a mere idle tale-bearer ; but it is hoped that
the present memoir will correct this erroneous impression. The following are

passages in Ray's letter to Aubrey, and in Hearne's works, respecting him :

  " I think," says Ray, " (if you can give me leave to be free with you,) that you
are a little inclinable to credit strange relations. I have found men that are not

skilfull in the history of nature very credulous, and apt to impose upon themselves

and others, and therefore dare not give a firm assent to anything they report upon

their own authority, but are ever suspicious that they may either be deceived them
selves, or delight to teratologize, (pardon y* word,) and to make shew of knowing

strange things."*

   Hearne, in his MS. Collections for the year 1710,-f- says, "Mr. Aubrey gave An

thony a Wood abundance of informations ; and Anthony used to say of him, when
he was at the same time in company, ' Look, yonder goes such a one, who can tell

such and such stories ; and Fie warrant Mr. Aubrey will break his neck down stairs

rather than miss him.'" The same writer thus mentions him more fully in his
Account of some Antiquities in and about Oxford :% "Before the destruction
made in the late horrid rebellion (against King Charles the First,) the tower of the

church [of Oseney Abbey, near Oxford] and divers other parts were standing, as
may be seen in the second volume of the Monasticon Anglicanum (page 136), where

they are delineated by the care and at the charge of the late Mr. John Aubrey, who

* Original, Ray to Aubrey; dated Black Notley, 8br. 27, (16)91, in vol. ii. of a collection of Letters   to

Aubrey, in the Ashmolean Museum.                             of Wood's Alhence  Oxonienses,  i. clxix).

  t Vol. xxvi. p. 39 (as quoted by Dr. Bliss in his edition

   \ Printed at the end of vol. ii. of LelancCs Itinerary.
6 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

began the study of antiquities very early, when he was gentleman-commoner of
Trinity College in Oxford, and had no inconsiderable skill in them, as may appear
from his history of the Antiquities of Wiltshire, his native county, now remaining in

the Museum Ashmoleanum ; which work, though imperfect and unfinished, yet

evidently shows that he could write well enough upon a subject to the study of

which he was led by a natural inclination ; and the world might have justly ex

pected other curious and useful notices of things from him, both with respect to the

antiquities of Oxford, as well as those in his own and other countries, had not he, by

his intimate acquaintance with Mr. Ashmole, in his latter years too much indulged

his fancy, and wholly addicted himself to the whimseys and conceits of astrologers,

soothsayers, and such like ignorant and superstitious writers, which have no founda

tion in nature, philosophy, or reason. But notwithstanding this unhappy avocation,

                                               is
                                                                                      it,
                                                                                                                                 a
which brought innumerable inconveniences along with                               he was otherwise very

ingenious man, and the world indebted to him for so carefully preserving the

remains of this old Abbey of Osney, and for assisting Mr. Wood and others in their

searches after antiquities, and furnishing them with several excellent memoirs con

cerning this as well as other monasteries of this kingdom."

   When Malone was preparing his Life Shakespeare, he had recourse to Aubrey's
manuscripts at Oxford, and in paper which he intended as an appendix to that
                           a
                                         a

                                               of
memoir* he has given good summary of Aubrey's literary character. In one
passage he observes, " However fantastical Aubrey may have been on the subjects
of chemistry and ghosts, his character for veracity has never been impeached, and

as very diligent antiquarian his testimony worthy of attention. Mr. Toland,
1                                                  is
                                                       a
  f*who was well acquainted with him, and certainly better judge of men than Wood,

       agives this character of him Though he was extremely superstitious, or seemed to
                    a
                is
                                            :

                                        '
be so, yet he was very honest man, and most accurate in his accounts of matters

of fact. But the facts he knew, not the reflections he made, were what wanted.'
                                                                                  a
[TolancTs Specimen of Critical History             the Celtick Religion, p. 122."]-^
                    p.                             of                               I
                                                          I
                         I
                                                                               a
                                    a
It printed at 694 of the second volume of Boswell's edition                     of Shakespeare (8vo, 21 vols., 1821).
                                                                                " John Aubrey, Esq. member of the
The entire passage from Toland's work deserves to be quoted.
                                                                                  was sojourner there,) was the only
Royal Society, (with whom  became acquainted at Oxford, when
                                   MALONE S HIGH OPINION OF HIM.

    Malone adds, " I do not wish to maintain that all his accounts of our English (                                                 a

    writers are on these grounds to be implicitly adopted ; but it seems to me much                                                               tO|
    more reasonable to question such parts of them as appear objectionable, than
                                                                                                                 I
    reject them altogether because he may sometimes have been mistaken." Malone
I itrefers to Aubrey's account of Shakspere as that of " an ingenious man, and most
    careful, laborious, and zealous collector of anecdotes relative to our English poets,
    and other celebrated writers." Even in refuting the statements both of Rowe andis         it
    Aubrey, as to the supposed occupation of the poet's father, he says, " do not think
                                                                                                   ;
        necessary or becoming to throw any ridicule on either of these gentlemen, nor shall
                                                                                                      I
        represent them as foolish gossips, because they have transmitted to us such
    accounts on this subject as they could procure. And shall particularly abstain
    from ridiculing Mr. Aubrey (whose name ought never to be mentioned by any
    friend to English literature without respect), on account of the tradition he has

    transmitted," because, as he proceeds to show, arose from a mistake into which

    Aubrey might easily have been led.*
        This valuable and discriminating testimony and contrasts strongly with the

    hasty notices by D'Israeli, who, with less than his usual sagacity and penetration,

    characterizes Aubrey as " too curious and talkative an inquirer," and likewise as
    " the little Boswell of his day."-f-

       In addition to these opinions, the following remarks, hitherto unpublished, are
    added from the pen of the Rev. Dr. Ingram, whose studies and attainments confer
    authority and value on his testimony " Aubrey's Life of the great mathematician,
I
       I

                                                               a
                                                                                           :
    person ever then met who had right notion of the temples of the Druids, or indeed any notion that the

    circles so often mention'd were such temples at all, wherein he was intirely confirm'd, by the authorities which

    show'd him, as he supply'd me in return with numerous instances of such monuments, which he was at great

    pains to observe and set down. And tho' he was extremely superstitious, or seem'd to be so yet he was very
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                            ':
                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                             s
    ....honest man, and most accurate in his accounts of matters of fact. But the facts he knew, not the reflections he
    made, were what wanted.        Sir Robert Sibbald, in his History of Fife, affirms, that there are several
    f
                                                                                                                                    These (says he)
                of
                    of I

                                                  a
                                                       by

                                                             by
                                                                            in
    Druids' temples to be seen everywhere                                       Scotland, particularly in the county he describes.

    are great stones plac'd in circle, at some distance from each other,' &c. Mr. Aubrey show'd me several of

    Dr. Garden's letters from that kingdom to the same purpose, but                                     whose hands now know not." Toland
                                                                                              p.
    History of the Druids, edited  R. Huddleston. 8vo. 1814,                                     in      159.
                                                                                                        ii. 73.
    * Life Shakespeare,            Malone, in BoswelVs edition, vol                                   p.

      Quarrels Authors, vol. iii. pp. 55, 76.
                               8 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.is
                                                               I.,
                               Oughtred, proves how much the world is indebted to him ; but envy, malice, and
is                               is
                             itsciolism, must have their day. /He was too laborious a man to be properly appre
                                        ;
                               ciated in an age of superficial acquirements and controversial excitement, two evils

                               which generally combine to retard and obstruct intellectual vigour/ I could say
                               Imuch on this head, but forbear, lest, as Selden says, ' some conscious man may

                               take it as a libel."'

                                   Aubrey's biographers have all in succession expatiated on his deluded attachment
                               to the study of judicial astrology, on his belief in ghosts, and other supernaturals, as
                               calculated to detract from his just merits as an antiquary and topographer. That
                               he was deeply imbued with superstition, and a credulous believer in all the absurdi
                               ties of the so-called science of astrology, is sufficiently proved by his Miscellanies,
                               unfortunately the only work he published during his life. But it should be borne
                               in mind that this was a failing incidental to the age in which he lived, and especially
                               to the circle in which he moved ; and that the same aberration of good sense pre
                               vailed in the poet Dryden, the statesman Clarendon, the monarch Charles and

                               many other eminent and illustrious men. In fact, although persons of Aubrey's
                               station in society, in the present age of intellectual advancement, no longer enter
                               tain the same prejudices and fallacies, this improvement of more recent date than

                                  perhaps generally supposed, and certainly far less extensively diffused than could
                               be desired. Within my own recollection, most of the inhabitants of Aubrey's native
                               parish were sincere and ardent believers in the appearance of ghosts, in haunted
                               houses, in witchcraft, in necromancy, in fairies, and their manufactory of grass
                               rings, in the supernatural influence of jack-a-lanterns, or will-o'-the-wisps, and
                               many other visionary vagaries, which belonged not merely to the lower and middle,
                               but to the educated and higher classes of society.

                                  Even in our own age an implicit belief in the mysteries of astrology hardly
                               exploded. The annual predictions of " Francis Moore, physician," in his Vox
                               Stellarum, still mystify and seduce their hundreds, nay thousands, of readers and
                               the experiment, once tried, of excluding them from his almanac proved so unsuc
                               cessful, that its proprietors (though unwilling to impose on the credulity of the
                               public) have found inexpedient to risk the popularity of so profitable work
                                 a
ASTROLOGY, "THE QUEEN OF MYSTIC SCIENCES.     9

by again attempting it. Meantime " Oracles of Fate," " Prophetic Messengers,"
and similar works, emanating from authors with the sounding names of " Raphael,"
" Zadkiel," &c. frequently issue from the press ; and even in the present year ( 1845)
a weekly paper, price one penny, to be called " The Astrologer," is announced to

appear in London. This is described as "the most wonderful publication of the
day," and " the most startling and entertaining work ever issued." It is asserted

that " the student in astral science will here find ample directions for acquiring a
knowledge of this truly wondrous and prophetic art." " Astrology," it further says,
" is now avowedly studied in both the Universities, and a society (the Rosicrucian

Association) openly  exists, and holds its meetings for the advancement of the science
in the Metropolis."
                     In this truly " startling work," " predictions of the weather and

to events from week to week will be given as a proof of the sublime truths on which

the study is based !"
   From circumstances like these it is clear that a belief in supernatural appearances

and influences is not, and perhaps never will be, wholly eradicated from the human

mind, and that there still remains much to be done in the way of general education
check its progress, to expose its absurdities, and to inculcate maxims of sound and

genuine philosophy.
   Sir Walter Scott, in his Letters on Demonology and Witchcraft, characterizes

the astrology of Aubrey's time as " the queen of mystic sciences, who flattered those

who confided in her, that the planets and stars, in their spheres, figure forth and

influence the fate of the creatures of mortality, and that a sage acquainted with her

lore could predict, with some approach to certainty, the events of any man's career,
his chance of success in life or in marriage, his advance in favour of the great, or

answer any other horary questions, as they were termed, which he might be anxious
to propound, provided always he could supply the exact moment of his birth. This,
in the sixteenth and greater part of the seventeenth centuries, was all that was
necessary to enable the astrologer to erect a scheme of the position of the heavenly
bodies, which should disclose the life of the interrogator, or Native, as he was called,
with all its changes, past, present, and to come. Imagination was dazzled by a
prospect so splendid ; and we find that in the sixteenth century the cultivation of

                                           c
10 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

this fantastic science was the serious object of men whose understandings.and acquire

ments admit of no question  The earlier astrologers, though denying the

use of all necromancy, that is, unlawful or black magic, pretended always to a corre
spondence with the various spirits of the elements, on the principles of the Rosicru-

cian philosophy. They affirmed they could bind to their service, and imprison in a

ring, a mirror, or a stone, some fairy, sylph, or salamander, and compel it to appear

when called, and render answers to such questions as the viewer should propose."

Of this class of visionaries, who, though of later date than the alchemists, sometimes

combined the pursuit of alchemy with astrology, the famous Dr. Dee may be re

garded as the type. " A grave and sober use of this science," Sir Walter Scott conti
nues, " would not have suited the temper of those who, inflamed by hopes of temporal

aggrandizement, pretended to understand and explain to others the language of the

stars  Such being the case, the science was little pursued by those who,

faithful in their remarks and reports, must soon have discovered its delusive vanity

through the splendour of its professions ; and the place of such calm and disinter
ested pursuers of truth was occupied by a set of men, sometimes ingenious, always

forward and assuming, whose knowledge was imposition, whose responses were, like

the oracles of yore, grounded on the desire of deceit, and who, if sometimes they

were elevated into rank and fortune, were more frequently found classed with rogues

and vagabonds." These remarks he proceeds to illustrate by reference to William

Lilly's History of his Life and Times,* from which it is evident that Lilly was

extremely cunning, ignorant, coarse, and vulgar, but well fitted to dupe the silly and

more ignorant persons who applied to him for advice. He was born in 1602, began
to study astrology in his thirtieth year, and died in 1681. It has been often cha
ritably supposed that Lilly was himself a believer in the prophetic powers of which

he boasts himself possessed, and this has arisen from the simplicity and apparent
candour of his narrative ; but there is quite enough in his remarkable work to stamp

    * Scott has further exposed the meanness and chicanery of the alchemists and astrologers in his admirable
novels, Kenilworth and Quentin Durward. The reader who may be desirous of pursuing this subject
further will find it ably illustrated in a series of papers in the Penny Magazine (1843), and in the article
Astrology, in the Penny Cyclopaedia : works which have been greatly beneficial in ministering to that
desire of knowledge which now characterizes all classes of readers.
ASTROLOGY :--LILLY ; ASHMOLE.                                                                       11

him as a crafty person, if not a knave and an impostor. The accounts this book

contains of Dr. Dee, Kelly, Forman, Evans, and other artful pretenders to astrolo

gical knowledge, and its illustrations of the public events, and the general customs of

his time, certainly render it one of much curiosty and interest. Lilly, says Sir Walter
Scott, " maintained some credit even among the better classes, for Aubrey and Ash-

mole both called themselves his friends, being persons extremely credulous, doubtless,

respecting the mystic arts." Hearne, as we have seen, attributes Aubrey's partiality
for these pursuits to his intercourse with Ashmole ; but his works in general show

that he was even less superstitious than the latter, who in his turn was far superior

to Lilly. Ashmole's Diary exhibits the same, or even greater, coarseness and vulga

rity of language than Lilly's History, whilst it is also full of triviality of detail : but he

had greater advantages of education and wealth than Lilly, and his works on Berk

shire, and the Order of the Garter, together with the noble Museum founded by him

at Oxford, entitle him to the lasting gratitude of posterity. He was born in 1617,

and died in 1692. Wharton, Coley, Gadbury, and others, were celebrated at the

period alluded to amongst the professors of astrology. Of the class at large Scott
says, " There was no province of fraud in which they did not practise : they were

scandalous as panders; and, as quacks, sold potions for the most unworthy purposes."

The downfall of astrology was effected by a combination of causes. The great

discoveries in astronomy, soon after the formation of the Royal Society, proved the
fallacy of the views on which the " celestial scheme," or " horoscope," * was drawn.

The degraded character of its professors naturally led to the degradation of the art
itself; and perhaps the quaint, satirical, Hudibras of Butler had some share in

producing this result. The three parts of that celebrated poem were published from

1663 to 1678, and the character of Sidrophel affords a strongly marked and ludi

crous picture of the judicial astrologer of the time. It is probable that this cha

racter was intended as a satire upon Lilly, who is at all events expressly ridiculed in
the same work, under the names of " English Merlin"-f- and " Erra Pater." The

* This was a diagram showing the supposed positions of certain of the heavenly bodies at the time to which

it referred. See p. 13.                                                                  Anglicus,  junior

  f Lilly published an almanac for many years successively with the title of " Merlinus

English Merlin revived." He is satirised by Congreve in " Love for Love."
12 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

operation of these causes became manifest very soon after Aubrey's death ; and it is
not too much to infer that, had he lived a few years more, his treatise on " Herme-
tick Philosophy," as he terms the Miscellanies, would never have been published.
His sagacity and shrewdness on other subjects justify the belief that, in a more

enlightened age, he would have been amongst the first to discountenance and expose

the fallacies of that " occult science."

    The leading features in Aubrey's literary and mental character, thus generally
noticed, are further exemplified in the following Auto-biographical notices of his

early life and studies, copied from the manuscript of his Lives of Eminent Men,
in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. These reminiscences were probably overlooked
when the selection from those lives was published, in the work entitled Letters from
the Bodleian Library ; --for, holding his literary labours, as the editors* of that
publication did, in such high esteem, it is not otherwise easy to account for their
omission. These notes, which are now printed for the first time, were evidently
written (as were the majority of the memoirs in the same work) at different times ;
the facts being narrated in a loose and vague manner, and blanks left for names,
dates, and sums, which, not occurring to Aubrey's recollection when he wrote, were
never afterwards supplied. They are covered with interlineations and marginal
additions, and in many parts so illegibly written that it is difficult to decipher many
of the words. The singular and unaccountable transitions from the first to the third

person in the manuscript, from which the following is printed, are remarkable.
The article is here given verbatim : the heading prefixed to it shows how little
value Aubrey set upon it himself.

                   I. A.

fTo be interponed  as a sheet of wast paper only at the binding of a booke.

    This person's life is more remarqueable in an Astrologicall respect, then for any advancement of learning,
having, from his birth (till of late yeares) been labouring under a crowd of ill directions : \ for his escapes of

* The Rev. Dr. Bliss, and the late Rev. J. Walker, of New College, Oxford.
t Interponed ; from the Lat. inter and pono, to set or insert between. [ Webster."]

J An astrological expression, meaning, under the influence of evil planets.
                             AUTO-BIOGRAPHY OF AUBREY.                                        13

many dangers in journeys both by land and water. He was borne at Easton Pierse, (a hamlet in the parish of
Kington Saint Michael,) in the hundred of Malmesbury,* in the countie of Wilts, (his Mother's inheritance,
D. and H. of Mr. Isaac Lyte), March the 12, (St. Gregories day,) A.D. 1625, about sun-riseing ; being very

weak, and like to dye, that he was christned before morning prayer.

  I Igott not strength till was 11 or 12 yeares old, but had belly ake, paine in the side, sicknesse of vomiting

for 12 houres, every fortnight for . . . yeares, then about monethly, then quarterly, and at last once in half a

yeare : about 12 it ceased.

    When a boy bred at Eston, (in Eremi-     Horoscope of John Aubrey's Nativity,
ticall solitude,) was very curious, his
                                                                from his own sketch.

greatest delight to be with the Artificers

that came there, e. g. joyners, carpenters)

cowpers, masons, and understood their

Itrades ; horis vacuis, drew and painted.

In 1634 was entred in his Latin gramer

by Mr. It. Latimer, a delicate and little
person, rector of Leigh-de-la-mere, -- a
mile, fine walk,--who had an easie way of

teaching ; and every time we asked leave

to go forth, we had a Latin word from

him, wch at our returne we were to tell

him again : which in a little while
amounted to a good number of words.

'Twas my unhappinesse in half a year to lose this good enformer by his death, and afterwards was under

Iseverall dull ignorant teachers till 12, 1638, about which time  was sent to Blandford schoole, in Dorset.

W. Sutton, B.D. who was ill natured. IHere recovered my health, and got my Latin and Greeke. Our

I Iusher had (by chance) a Cowpcr's Dictionary, which had never seen before.  was then in Terence. Per-

Iceiving his method,                                                                                                                                         way
                      read all in the booke where Ter. was, and then Cicero, which was the meanes by which

I got my Latin. 'Twas a wonderfull helpe to my phansie in reading of Ovid's Metamorph. in English by

ISandys, which made me understand the Latin the better. Also mett accidentally a book of my Mother's, --

Bacon's Essayes, -- which first opened my understanding on the moralls, (for Tullies Offices were too crabbed

for my young yeares,) and the excellent clearnesse of the style, and hints, and transitions.

  I was alway enquiring of my grandfather of the old time, the rood loft, &c., ceremonies of the Priory, &c.
At 8 I was a kind of Engineer, and I fell then to Drawing, beginning first with plaine outlines, e. g. in

    * Aubrey errs in placing Easton in the hundred  of Malmesbury, as it belongs              to that of North
Damerham.
14 MEMOIR OP JOHN AUBREY.

draughts of        ; then on to colours, being only my owne instructor. Copied pictures in the parlor in a
             I I(Iwas wont
table book.                  remember) much to lament with myselfe that lived not in a city, e. g. Bristole

Iwhere might have access to watchmakers, locksmiths, &c. Not very much care for gram. Apprehensive

Ienough, but my memorie not tenacious, so that then a boy, was a promising morne enough, of an inventive

and philosophicall head.     My witt was alwaies working, but not to verse. Exceeding mild of spirit, mightily
susceptible of fascination.    Strong and early impulse to antiquities. Tacitus and Juvenal. Look't through

logique and some ethiques.

    He began to enter into pocket mdm books, philosophicall and antiquarian remarques  A0. D. 1654, at
Llantrithid.

I1642, May 2.      went to Oxford. Peace. But now did Bellona thunder, and as a cleare skie is sometimes

suddenly overstretched with a dismall black cloud and thunder, so was the serene peace by the civill war,

through the factions of those times. In August following my father sent for me home for feare. In Febr.

Ifollowing (with much importunity) gott my father to lett me go to beloved Oxford againe (then a garrison
Ipro Rege).
             got Mr. Hesketh, a priest, Mr. Dobson's man, to drawe the ruines of Osney 2 or 3 wayes

Ibefore 'twas pulled downe ; now the very foundation is digged up. In April fell sick of the small pox at
I ITrin. Coll ; and when recovered, after Trin. weeke, my father sent for me into the country again, where

conversed with none but servants and rustiques, (to my great greefe, for in those days fathers were not

acquainted with their children,) and soldiers quartered.  Odi prophanum vulgus et arceo. It was a most sad

life to me then, in the prime of my youth,  not to have the benefitt of an ingeniouse conversation, and scarce
any good bookes. Almost a consumption.
                                              I IThis sad life did lead in the country till 1646, at which time

got (with much adoe) leave of my father to let me goe to the M. Temple. April 16, 1646, admitted. 24

IJune following Oxon was surrendered, and there came to London many of the King's party, with whom grew
I Iacquainted (many of them knew before). loved not debauches, but their martiall conversation : was not so
fit forthemesse. INovemb. 6 returned to Trin. Coll. in Oxon. again to my great joy: was much made of by the

Ifellows, had their learned conversation, lookt on books, musique. Here and at M. T. (off and on) (for the

most part) enjoyed the greatest felicity of my life. [Ingeniouse youths, like rose budds, imbibe the morning

Idew.] Till Dec. 1648 (Xmas eve,) was sent for home from Oxon again to my sick father, who never

Irecovered, where was engaged to look after his country business, and solicite a lawe suite. A0 165-, Octob.

I--, my father dyed, leaving me debts 1800 lib., and law proceed. 1000 lib.
                                                                        A0 16-- began my lawe suite
                                                                         IA0 was to have married
...on the entaile in Brecon, which lasted till
....Mrs. K. Ryvs, who dyed when to be married.
                                            , and it cost me 1200 lib.

                                                          2000 lib., besides counting one of her brothers

1000 lib. p. arm.

IA° . . . made my will, and settled my estate on trustees, intending to have seen the antiq. of Rome

and Italy, and then to have returned and married ; but (Diis aliter visum est superis) viz       to
....my inexpressible griefe and ruine, hindered the designe, which was my
I ....all these embarrassments,                                            cause. But notwithstanding

                             did  (as they occurred) tooke notes of antiq., and having a quick draught,

have drawn landskips on horseback symbolically, e. g. journey to Ireland in July, A0 Dom. 166-.
                            AUTO-BIOGRAPHY OF AUBREY.                                                                                           15

....The debts and lawe suites       borrowing of money, and perpetuall riding to my . , . . A0 . . . . sold

manor of Burleton, in Heref. to Dr. F. Willis. A0 . . . sold the manor of Strafford * to Herbert, Ld Bp.

of Hereford. A° 1664, June 11, went into France. Octob                                                          returned. Then Joan Sumner . . .

then lawe suite w* her, then sold Easton Pierse and the farme at Broad Chalke. Lost 500" . . + 20011.

Igoods and timber. Absconded as a banished man. Ubi in monte Dei videbitur.                                           was in as much affliction

as a mortall could bee, and never quiet till all was gone. Submitted my selfe to God's will ; wholly cast my

selfe on God's providence.  I wished Monasterys had not been put downe, that the Reformers would have
....been more moderate as to that point
                                                                                fitt there should be receptacles and  for contemplative men
.... this compensated ; w' a pleasure 'twould have been to have travelled from monastery to monastery.

The Reformers in the Lutheran countries were more prudent then to destroy them, e. g. in Halsatia, &c.

Nay, the Turks have monasteries ; why should our Reformers be so severe ?

Never quiett, nor anything of happiness         till                            divested of all,  1670,  1671.  at what tune Providence raysed  me,
                                                                                 all was sold,

f(unexpectedly,                                                                                               I Jwith whom was delitescent
    good friends), the Right Hon. Nicholas E. of Th.,                                                                                       .. . .
....at Hethfield, in Kent, neer a year, and then was invited
                                                                                                         Then Edm. Wyld, Esq. R.S.S. of Glazely

IHall, Salop, tooke me into his amies, with whom most commonly take my diet and sweet otiums.

  I IA0 1671 having sold all and disappointed as aforesaid of moneys recd, had so strong an impulse to (in
Igood part) finish the Description of Wilts, in 2 volumes in fol., that I could not be quiett till had donne
                                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                          I

                                                                                                                                                             it,
and that with danger enough, tanquam canis Nilo, for feare of crocodiles (»'.) catchpoles.                                And indeed all
    I
                                     I

                                                                                e
....that have donne, and that little have studied, has been just after that fashion so that, had not lived
long, my want of leisure would have afforded but a slender harvest of                                           . A strange fate that           have

laboured under, never in my life to enjoy one entire moneth,                                      a           once at Chalke, in my absconding, A°
                                                                                                         (t.
..  or weeks otium for contemplation.                                              My studies in geometry were on horseback and the house of
    .
                                                                                my pocket, with little information from Edw. Davenant, D.D.
     :)

          I6

                                                  :
                                                                            in
office so gott my algebra Oughtred

of Gillington, Dorset. My father discouraged me. My head was alwaies working, never idle, and even

travelling (which from 1649 till 1670 was never off my horse back,) did gleane some observations, of

which have collection in folio of two quire of paper, some whereof are to be valued.
    I

                 a
                   a

                          I
                                               I
  My fancy lay most to geometric If ever had been good for anything 'twould have been                                     painter.
                                                                                                                          a
could fancy thing so strongly, and have so cleare an idea of it.                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                                   I
    Stomach so tender that  could not drinke claret without sugar, nor white wine but 'twould disgorge                                          not
well recovered till 1670.

    * This word illegibly written.              probably means Stretford, near Leominster, Herefordshire,
%f
                            is                                                                                        by
                                            It
    Nicholas Tufton, 3rd Earl of Thanet. He was twice imprisoned in the Tower                                             Cromwell on suspicion

of conspiracy against the Protector and his council, and died 24th Nov. 1679.

    Delitescence, (delitescentia, Lat.) retirement, obscurity. [Johnson.'}
16 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

   When a boy he did ever love to converse with old men as Living Histories : he cared not for play, but on
play dayes he gave himselfe to drawing and painting. Never riotous or prodigall, but (as Sir E. Leech sd)

                       lachese
sloath and negligence, carlessnesse, =valent [equivalent] to all other vices.

Whereas very sickly in youth, Deo gratias, healthy from 16 . .

                                                AMICI.

                A. Ettrick, Tr. Coll.                   A. Wood, 1665.

                Fr. Potter, of C.C.C.                   Bp. Sarum.
              M. T. Jo. Lydall.                         Dr. W. Holder.

            Sir J. Hoskyns, Baronet.                    Sir William Petty, my singular friend.
                                                        Sir James Long, Baronet, of Draycot.
               Ed. Wyld, Esq. of Glazely Hall.          Mr. Ch. Seymour, . . of the D. of S.'
               Mr. Rob. Hooke, Gresh. Coll.
                                                and pray for ye young angells rest, at Mrs. Mores, neer
               Mr. Hobbes, 165-.

  I now indulge my genius w* my friends,

Gresh. Coll.

   I. A. lived most at Broad Chalk, in Com. Wilts. Sometimes at Easton Piers.  At London every terme.
Much of his time spent in journying to S. Wales, -- Entaile, --and Heref.sh.

SCRIPSIT, Naturall History of Wiltshire.
                 Idea of Education of the Noblesse from the age of 10 or 11 till 18. In Mr. Ashmole's hands.

                   Item, Remaynders of Gentilisme, being Observations of Ovid's Fastorum.

                   Mem. Villare Anglicanum interpreted.
                 Item, Faber Fortunae. For his owne private use.

               These lives p. A. W.f 16fj.

   It was I. A. that did putt Mr. Hobbes upon writing his Treatise de Legibus, which is bound up with his
Rhetorique ; that one cannot find it but by chance. No mention of it in the first title.

Mem. I. Aubrey, in the year 1666, wayting then upon Joan Sumner, to her brother at Seen, in Wilts,

there made a discovery of a chalybiate waters, and these more impregnated than any waters yet heard of in

IEngland.  sent some bottles to the R. S. in June, 1667, which were tryed with galles before a great

assembly there. It turns so black that you may write legibly with and did there, after so long carriage,
f
                            a
                                                           a
                                                                                                          it,
                                                                                                                           it,
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
turn as deepe as deep claret. The physitians were wonderfully surprised at     and spake to me to recom-

* [Brother of Francis, 5th Duke of Somerset, on whose death, in 1678, he succeeded to the title.]
    [These Lives for Anthony Wood.]
                                   AUTO-BIOGRAPHY OF AUBREY.                                                                                                                   17

mend it to the DTM of the Bath, (from whence it is but about lOmiles,) for that, in some cases, 'tis best to begin
Iwith such waters and end with the Bath, and in some vice versa.
                                                                                         wrote several times, but to no purpose, for

Iat last found that, though they were satisfied of the excellency of the waters, and what the London DTM sayd
Iwas true, they did not care to have company goe from the Bath. So inserted it the last yeare in M. Lilly's

aim. and towards the latter end of summer there came so much company that the village could not containe

them, and they are now preparing for building of houses against the next summer. Jo. Sumner sayth (whose
well is the best,) that it will be worth to him 200 lib. pr ann. Dr. Grew, in his History of the Repository of

the R. Society, mentions  this discovery,  as also of the iron oare there, not taken notice of before.                 'Tis in part

III. c. ii. pag. 331.*

Another auto-biographical paper by Aubrey was in the possession of Dr. Rawlin-

son, who quoted it in the memoir prefixed to the History of Surrey. That paper is

not amongst the doctor's manuscripts in the Bodleian Library, but a copy of                                            it it,                                                  by

Mr. Ballard,           appended to volume of his valuable and interesting series of
                  is
                     it
                          is

                                               a

                                                                                            ;

                                                                  It
Original Letters, preserved in that collection and, as apposite to the subject of the

present memoir,           added in the ensuing page.                                           may be observed that the title

of this paper, " Accidents of John Aubrey," does not necessarily denote misfortunes,

though few of the circumstances mentioned were of any other kind; the word

accidents an astrological term, and means simply events or occurrences, such as were
a
            is
supposed to have been influenced by the position of the heavenly bodies at the time

of person's birth.

* Aubrey appears to have thought very highly of these discoveries, and used every exertion to make them

available for useful purposes.     Amongst others he succeeded in interesting Sir James Long, of Draycot, in the
subject. The " Seen water"
                                    frequently mentioned in his papers and in his Natural History of Wilt
                It                                                                 I
                                                                                       ;
                       I                                                                  it
                                                 is
                                                                     is
                                                                        a
                                                                   by
shire, Chap. ii. on Springs Medicinall,                                  more minute account of than the above. He there states that

he made the discovery " at the Revell there, 1665. Whereupon                             sent my servant to the Davises for some
                                                                                                                      " This adver
galles to   try   the waters, and  made   my first experiment              at Mr.   Jo.  Sumner's   (where lay)."I  Physitians, and
tisement,"    he                         Rich. Blackburne to                       He               the College of
                  says, " desired   Dr.                                    word.         is one of

practiseth yearly at Tunbridge Wells. It was printed in an almanack of Hen. Coley about 1681, but                                                                              tooke

no effect.        was about 1688 before they became to be frequented." -- " Advertisement.                          At Seen (near

the Devises, in Wiltshire), are springs, discovered to be of the nature and virtue of those at Tanbridge, and

altogether as good. They are approved of                                   severall of the physitians of the colledge in London, and have

donne great cures, viz. particularly in the spleen, the reines, and bladder, affected with heat, stone, or gravell,

or restoring hectic persons to health and strength, and wonderfully conducing in all cases of obstructions.

There are good howses and accom'odation at reasonable rates." This property now belongs to W. H. Ludlow
Bruges, Esq. M.P., of Seend, who preserves the well, but its waters are not resorted to for sanatory purposes.

Other waters of similar quality at Melksham, in the vicinity of Seend, were formerly much used, and pump-
                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                                                            a
room and lodging houses were built around them but fashion, that fickle goddess, has not given them the

fiat of her approval.

                                                                                                                    D
18 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

                              ACCIDENTS OF JOHN AUBREY.*

Born at Easton-Piers March 1625-6, about sun-rising ; very weak, and like to dye, and therefore christned

Ithat morning before prayer.  Ithink have heard my mother say I had an ague shortly after I was bom.

I I I1629. About three or four years old had a grievous ague ; can remember it. got not health till eleven

or twelve, but had sickness of vomiting for 12 hours every fortnight for . . . years, then it came monthly for

. . . , then quarterly, and then half-yearly ; the last was in June 1642. This sickness nipt my strength in

the bud.

  I1633. At eight years old had an issue (naturall) in the coronall sutor of my head, which continued

running till 21.

I1634. October, had a violent fevor, it was like to have carried me off; 'twas the most dangerous sickness

Ithat ever had.

I I1639. About 1639 or 1643
                              had the measills, but that was nothing, was hardly sick. Monday after

Easter week my uncle's nag ranne away with me, and gave me a very dangerous fall.

1642. May 3, entered at Trinity College.
1643. April and May, the small pox at Oxon ; after left that ingeniouse place, and for three yeares led a

sad life in the country.
   1646. April . . admitted of the M. Temple ; but my father's sickness and business never permitted me to

make any settlement to my study.                              good conditioned     gentlewoman,  Mrs. M.

   I1651. About the 16 or 18 of April sawe that incomparable

Wiseman, with whom at first sight I was in love.

1652. October the 21, my father died.

(I I1655
              think) June 14, had a fall at Epsam, and brake one of my ribbes, and was afraid it might cause

an apostumation.f

  I I1656. Sept. 1655, or rather think 1656, began my chargeable and tedious lawe suite on the entaile in

Brecknockshire and Monmouthshire. This yeare and the last was a strange yeare to me. Several love and

lawe suites.

1656              Decemb. % morb.

1657. Novemb. 27, obiit Diia Kaaker Ryves, with whom I was to marry, to my great losse.

   1659. March or April, like to break my neck in Ely Minster : and the next day, riding a gallop there, my

Ihorse tumbled over and over, and yet, thank God, no hurt.

   1660. July, Aug. I accompanied A. Ettrick into Ireland for a month, and returning, were like to be ship-

wreckt at Holyhead, but no hurt done.

* This document has been printed, though somewhat imperfectly, in a work entitled Oxoniana ; (4 vols,
J.12mo.) edited by the late Rev. Walker, of New
                                                 College, Oxford.             Aubrey by Dr. W. Harvey  " to
   + " Apostumation, An abscess." [Johnson.']
                                                  A prescription written for

prevent an impostumation," and dated November 1655, is inserted in the collection of Letters from

Aubrey's correspondents, in the Ashmolean Museum (vol. i.).
                                IS. ACCIDENTS OF JOHN AUBREY."                                           19

1661. "j  About  Ithese years sold my estate in Herefordshire.
1662. >   Janu.  I had the honour to be elected Fellow of the R. S.

1663.-'

    1664. June 11, landed at Calais ; in August following had a terrible fit of the spleen and piles at Orleans.

I returned in October.

1664 or 1665. Munday after Christmas was in danger to be spoiled by my horse ; and the same day

Ireceived laesio in testiculo, which was like to have been fatal. O. It. Wiesman quod -- believe 1664.

1665.  INovember 1, made my first address (in an ill hour) to Joane Sumner.*                 been under  an
1666.  IThis year all my business and affairs ran kirn kam, nothing tooke effect, as if had

ill tongue. Treacheries and enmities in abundance against me.

1667. December . . . arrested in Chancery-lane, at Mrs. Sumner's suite.

Feb. 24, A.M., about 8 or 9. Triall with her at Sarum ; victory and 600/. damaged ; though devilish oppo

sition against me.                                                   Ithe day before was to go to Winton for
   1668. July 6, was arrested by Peter Gale's malicious contrivance

my second triall ; but it did not retard me above two hours, but did not then go to triall.

1669. March 5, was my triall at Winton from eight to nine. The judge being exceedingly made against me

by my Lady Hungerford, but four of the          appearing, and much adoe, got the moiety of Sarum ;

verdict in 300/.                                (I IFrom 1670 to this very day
                                                                                 thank God,) have enjoyed
  I1669 and 1670. sold all my estate in Wilts.

a happy delitescency.

1671. . . . Danger of arrests.

1677. Latter end of June an impostume brake in my head.

Mdm. St. John's night, 1673, in danger of being run through with a sword by a young templer at Mr.

Burges' chamber, in the M. Temple.

I was in danger of being killed by William Earl of Pembroke, then Lord Herbert, at the election of Sir

IWilliam Salkeld for New Sarum.     have been in danger of being drowned twice.
I IThe year that lay at Mr. Neve's (for a short time) was in great danger of being
                                                                                             killed by a drunkard

Iin the street of Gray's Inn Gate by a gentleman whom never saw before, but (Deo Gratias) one of his

companions hindred his thrust.      [1754. June 11, transcribed from a MS. in Mr. Aubrey's own hand

                                        writing, in the possession of Dr. R. Rawlinson.]

   Such are the auto-biographical memoranda of John Aubrey ; and, although they

are slight in texture, they afford a clear and vivid insight into the elements of a cha
racter which was unique, and contradistinguished from that of all his compeers.

   * The manuscript in the Bodleian Library, in the hand-writing of Ballard, has the name here distinctly
written " Joane Brewer." Dr. Rawlinson, however, quoting from the original, in Aubrey's writing, (then in
his own possession), prints it " Joane Sumner ;" and, as this reading is corroborated by subsequent passages,
as well as by Aubrey's other memoranda, it is here corrected as a mere error of the transcriber, though it is
certainly one of a most extraordinary kind.
20 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

   As frequent reference will be made in the following memoir to Aubrey's various

works, it is thought desirable to insert a list of them in this place. It is copied

from the original in his own hand-writing at the end of the eleventh manuscript
mentioned in the list ; which, with most of the others, is preserved in the Ashmolean

Museum. The list is headed "A Catalogue of Books written by Mr. Aubrey;

inserted here by himself, at my request, Nov. 18, 1692. Edw. Lhwyd." Some of
the manuscripts here mentioned are not now extant, viz. those numbered 5. 12. 13.

16. 18. 20. 21. and 22., but of these Nos. 5. 12. and 22. were probably cancelled
on the publication of his Miscellanies, which elucidated the matters they seem to
have referred to.

    1. Antiquities of Wiltshire, after the method of Sir W.Dugdale's Description ofWarwickshire. 2 parts in fol.

   2. Monumenta Britannica. 3 parts fol. W"1 Mr. Secretary Trumbull.

   3. Memoires of Naturall Remarques in Wilts. 2 parts fol.

  J.4. Perambulation of halfe the County of Surrey. Fol. With Mr. Evelyn.

* 5. Miscellanea. Fol.

I6. Lives. 3 parts

   7. Mr. Th. Hobbes' Life in English.

   8. An Apparatus of the Lives of English Mathematicians. A qr. At Gresham Colledge.
-- 9. Idea of Education of Young Gentlemen from 9 to 18. Fol. The correct copie is w"1 Anthony

Henley, Esq. at y* Grange, in Hampshire.
   10. Remaines of Gentilisme. 3 parts, sc. about 3 qTM. With Dr. Kennet.

11. Villare Anglicanum, [to be] interpreted.  Fol.

- 12. A Collection of Divine Dreames from persons of my acquaintance,  worthy of beliefe.     8vo.

13. Hypothesis Ethic & Scala Religionis. Wth Dr. Waple, Minister of Sepulchres by Newgate.

14. A Collection of Genitures well attested. 4to.

15. Easton Piers delineated.
16. Villa, or a Description of the Prospects from Easton Piers.

    17. Faber Fortunse, a private essay.                              persons  inch £ thick.  This I designe

   18. A Collection of Approved Receipts.
   19. A Collection of Letters, writt to me from about 100 ingeniose

for the Musaeum.

20. Adversaria Physica.                                                W* Dr. Waple.
21. An Introduction to Architecture.

J.22. Some Strictures of Hermetick Philosophy, collected by Aubrey.
21

                                                     (ffDap. IS.

DESCENT AND PEDIGREE OF AUBREY --JOHN AUBREY'S BIRTH-PLACE -- HIS INFANCY AND SCHOOL DAYS
       IS ENTERED AT TRINITY COLLEGE, OXFORD, AND THE MIDDLE TEMPLE COMMENCEMENT OF
       THE CIVIL WARS DISCOVERY OF AVEBURY HIS FATHER'S DEATH HIS FIRST LITERARY WORKS
          A MEMBER OF A REPUBLICAN CLUB JOURNEY TO IRELAND INTERVIEW WITH CHARLES II. AT
       AVEBURY AND SILBURY HILL -- JOURNEY TO FRANCE MATRIMONIAL PROJECTS.

Aubrey, or Aubery, as a surname, is considered by Aubrey himself to class

with Godfrey, or Rowland, and many others, originally employed to designate

individuals, but afterwards used as family names.* Some writers"^ who have
noticed the ancestors of John Aubrey state that he " descended from Saunders de

St. Aubrey, or Alberic," a member of the royal family of France, who accompanied

William of Normandy in his successful invasion of England: and they further

narrate, with great show of accuracy, the establishment of the family in Brecknock

shire, its alliance by marriage with a descendant of a monarch of South Wales, and

the consequent extension of its influence and importance in that ancient principality.

Without dwelling upon these or other points X in the early history of the family,
which are undeniably involved in much obscurity, it will be sufficient for the purpose

of this memoir to observe that it was certainly of some consequence in the reign

* Aubrey's Monumenta Britannica ; Rev. T. Delafield, in Kennett's Parochial Antiquities, ed. 1818,

vol. ii. p. 523 ; Camden's Remains, p. 58.

  f See Betham's Baronetage ; Bowles's History of Chalk Hundred, in Hoare's Modern Wilts ; &c.

  t The name " John Aubrey " occurs seven times in the Hundred Rolls of Edward I. ; and in the
reign of Edward III. one " Andrew Aubrey" had a grant {Pat. A° 27 E. III.) of certain tenements in

London, which he held of the king, in capite. He was Lord Mayor of London in 1339, 1340, and 1351, and
III. III.,on one occasion lent the king 800Z. (French Chronicle of London, Hen.
    to Edward                                                                                      printed by

the Camden Society.) One of the charges upon which the Lord Chancellor Bacon was disgraced and fined
was that he had accepted a bribe of 100Z. from " Christopher Awbrey," a poor gentleman, who borrowed the

money of an Usurer, in order to secure a favourable judgment in a suit then pending before the Chancellor,

between himself and Sir William Bronker. (See State Trials.) It is probable that these individuals were

of the same family as the subject of this memoir, though their relationship cannot now be traced.
22 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

    of Queen Elizabeth, when, in the person of Dr. William Aubrey, the name first
    became distinguished in science and law.

       This eminent individual was born at Cantre in Brecknockshire, and studied the
   civil law at All Souls' College, Oxford. In this he attained great proficiency, taking
    his degree as Doctor at the age of twenty-five, and obtaining immediately afterwards
    the appointment of Regius Professor. He appears to have been warmly patronized
    by William, Earl of Pembroke, to whose family he was distantly related ; for when
    the Earl commanded the English forces in France, Dr. Aubrey was his judge advo

    cate, and a judge marshal of the royal army at St. Quintin's. On his return to

    England he practised with such fame and credit as an advocate of the court of
    Arches, that he was "accounted peerlesse in that facultie.*" He was successively
    appointed one of the Council of the Marches in Wales, a Master in Chancery,

    Official Principal and Vicar-General to his friend and patron, Whitgift, Archbishop
   of Canterbury, and, by the special favour of the Queen, who " loved him, and was
    wont to call him her little doctor," a Master of the Requests in ordinary. Dr.
    Aubrey was one of the delegates for the trial of Mary Queen of Scots, and was
    desirous to save her life ; in acknowledgement of which James I. afterwards knighted
    his two eldest sons. He is highly spoken of in Thuanuss Annates, and in Dr.
    Zoudis, De Jure Feciali : his judicial decrees were quoted and acted on by Coke
    and Atkins, as of high authority. He had a country house at Kew, and lived on

^ intimate terms with his relative and neighbour, Dr. Dee,' the celebrated astrologer,

   of Mortlake. A curious certificate of Dr. Aubrey's funeral in St. Paul's Cathedral,

    signed by his three sons, and narrating fully his titles, alliances, and issue, is
    printed in Collins's Baronetage, vol. iii. p. 1 1 1 ( 1741). His monument was destroyed
     with the cathedral in the great fire of 1666.

      It will be seen by the accompanying pedigree that John Aubrey, the antiquary,

    was descended from John, the youngest son of this distinguished man. His other
    sons, Sir Edward and Sir Thomas, inherited respectively the family estates in the

     counties of Brecknock and Glamorgan. The eldest branch soon became extinct, for

* See the notice from which this is abridged, in Aubrey's Lives of Eminent Men, in Letters from the

Bodleian, vol.  ii.  pp. 207--221.
                                      LLANTRITHYD AND BORSTALL.                       23

at the time of the Restoration, John Aubrey, of Llantrithyd, Glamorganshire, the

son of Sir Thomas Aubrey, was the head of the family : and on the 23rd July, 1660,
he was created a baronet by Charles II., --the Aubreys having maintained a firm

adherence to the royal cause. Sir John, the second baronet, added to bis other

estates that of Borstall, in Buckinghamshire,* which he acquired by marriage with

the daughter and heiress of William Lewis, and from that time until recently,

Borstal] and Llantrithyd have been amongst the principal seats of the Aubrey

           ,-f-
             a

                          it
family     The old baronial mansion at Llantrithyd has however been suffered to

fall into truly lamentable and degrading state. The Rev. Dr. Ingram, of Oxford,

wrote respecting              as follows, in 1837: "Magnificent staircases, embossed and

panelled ceilings, carved chimney-pieces, and armorial embellishments of the most

splendid kind, are fast sinking into one common ruin. The roofs are falling, and
                                                                                      a
   scarcely safe to walk over the floors."^ Of the once interesting mansion at
Borstall, which was several times besieged during the Civil Wars, nothing now re                is it
is
                  it, a
                                   a
mains but          substantially built gateway, flanked by turrets at the angles. Some
account of                            view of the Tower-Gateway, are given in Brayley's " Graphic
                   with

and Historical Illustrator."

* This property was granted by Edward the Confessor to Nigel, huntsman (who had skina wild boar

which infested the adjacent royal forest of Bernwood), "per unum cornu, quod est charta prcedictee

foresee."  The estate descended from Nigel by several heirs female to the family of Aubrey. The

Borstall horn, well known to antiquaries, and an ancient chartulary, in which the incident here referred to

depicted, were exhibited to the Society of Antiquaries in 1773, through the kindness of Sir John (then Mr.)

Jf                                                                    his permission engraved, and described, in the third volume of
                                                                  by
Aubrey, the 6th baronet, and they were

the Archceologia.

Collins, Betham, &c. ut supra.

Memorials of Oxford, --Jesus College.
24 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

                               PEDIGREE OF AUBREY AND LYTE.

        From Aubrey's MSS. at Oxford ; Aubrey's Live* of Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 219 ; the Parith Register* of Kington
        St. Michael ; MSS. by Jas. Gilpin, Recorder of Oxford, 1756 fin Athm. Mm*..) i Bowles's Hitloty of Chalk Hun
        dred ; Betham's Baronetage, &c.

4 William Aubrey, D.C.L.,:            :Wilgiford, dau.= :. . . . Browne,        Thomas Lyte, of Easton=T=Eleanor,dau. of Isaac Taylos;
                                      of John Wil esq. of Wil-                  Pierse, Wilts, born 1531 of Kington Priory, Wilts ;
  Regius Professor, Oxford;           liams, esq. of ley, Surrey ;              --died May, 1627, bur. at marr. Dec. 7, 1568, died Jan.
  bom about 1529, died 25             Tcyn ton, Ozon. 2nd husb.                 Kington St. Michael.           i 29, 1582.
  June 1595.

Sir Edward'    Joan,      ASuirbrTehyom, aosfs^M&ahr.y  ,d.   John       =p Rachelf   =John               lII  l
Aubrey, of     dau. of                                       Aubrey,         dau. of     Whitson,  Elizabeth.   Isiaaaacc Lytei , of ^Israel, dau. of
                                                        of                                         Mary.        Easton- Pierse Thos. Browne,
                                                                                                   Joan        born 19 Mar. of Winter-
Brecknock      Wm.        Glamorgan            Anthony       of Bur-      Richard Alder-

shire.         11a-       shire.               Mansell,      leton,       Danvers,     man of      Wilgiford.  1576, died 21  bourne Basset,
               vard,                           esq. of                                 Bristol,    Lucy.       Feb. 1659 1    Wilts, b. 1578,
                                               Llantri-      Here         esq. of                  Anne,       bur. at King   d. 24 Feb.
               esq. of                                       fordshire.   Token-       b. 1557,                ton.           1662, bur. at
               Breck                           thyd.Gla-                  ham,         d. Mar.       All mar-
               nock                            morgan-                    Wilts;       1629;       ried.                      Kington.

               shire.                          shire.                     d. 1656. 2d husb.

7 sons, and      Sir JoHN-pMary, dau. Thomas 3 Daughters.                       Richard Aubrby, of Burle-=pDeborah, dau. and heiress,
5 daughters.     Aubrey, and heiress ^Aubrey,                                   ton, Herefordsh. and Broad born Jan. 1610, marr. 15
                 1st Bart.                                                      Chalk, Wilts ; born 1603, died June 1625, died at (Broad
                                      South,* .-ii^Rudd.                        at Broad Chalk, 21st, and bur. Chalk li)th, and bu. at King,
                                                                                                               ton, 25th April, 1686.
                                                     1--i                       at Kington 26th Oct. 1652.
                                               Mary, marr.
Lewis, Marga-=i=SiR John -- Mary,                            JOHN AUBREY, F.RS., bom at Eas-                   Anne,          Isaac, bapt. 29th
                          Aubrey, dau.         W.Monta       ton-Pierse, Wilts, 12th March 1626;               bapt. at Jan., bur. 31st
died    ret                                                                                                                   Jan. 1630, at

s. p.   Low-              2d Bart. ; and       gue, Lord     died at Oxford, unmarr. June 1697,                Kington,

        ther,             died Sept.  heiress  Chief Ba       bur. (June 7) at St. Mary Magdalene's            23 June,         Kington.
        dau. of           1700.       of Wil   ron of the     church, Oxford.                                  1628.          Isaac, bapt. 22d
        John                          liam     Exche
                                      Lewis,                 William Aubrey, LL.B. Fellow of                                   Mar. 1631, bur.

        1st                                    quer.         New College, Oxford, bom 2nd Mar.                                22d Oct. 1632,
        Lord
                                      esq. of Elizabeth,     1643, died Oct. 1707, s. p.                                      at Kington.
        Lons                          Bor-     marr. Ralph Thomas Aubrey, born at Broad Chalk,
                                                                      Wilts, 1645 ; died unmarr. 15th Aug.
        dale.                         stall.   Freeman,

                                               esq.                   1681, buried at Broad Chalk.

                          LMary Staley,-pSiR John Aubrey, 3rd Baronetj^Francea Jephson, --Jane Thomas,
                            1st wife.                   died April 1743.               2nd wife.               3d wife.

Sir John Aubrey,          Sir THomaS^Martha, dau. of Richard                    Mary,  Henry ^Elizabeth,       --i                         i
                          Aubrey, 5th Carter, esq, of Chilton,                  died   Lintot, died Jan.                             Margaret,
4th Bart. ; died un       Bart. ; died 4 Bucks, died 1788.                                                      Frances, died        died un-
married, 14th Oct.                                                                                              1775 ; marr.         married,

1767.                                                                           unmarr. esq.        1734.      Denham                1793.

                          Sept. 1786.                                           1768.                          Jephson, esq.

Mary,   Jamdaeus.^S6iRth  John    Aubrey,     Martha-Catharine, dau.      Thomas Aubrey,  Richard Aubrey, Col.^Frances, dau          Patty-
ofSir                     Bart.;   died 1st.  of George Richard Car-      a Major in the  of the Glamorganshire of the Hon.          Mary,
                                              ter, esq. of Chilton ;      Army; died      Militia; marr. 26 Feb. Wriothesley         d. un-
Colebrooke, March 1826, bur. at               2nd wife.                   1814.                                                      marr.

Bart. ; 1st Borstall, Bucks.                                                              1780, died 1808.               Digby.      1774.

wife.

John Aubrey,              W. R. Cartwright, -Julia-Frances.              Sir Thomas Digby AuBREY,=Mary, dau. of Thomas Wright, esq.
 died young.                      esq. M.P.                              7th Bart. ; marr. 9th Dec. niece of the Rev. Robert Veraey,
                                               !                                                               of Middle Clayton, Bucks; died
                                                                         1813.

                                                                                                               without issue, 1817.
                           JOHN AUBREY S BIRTH-PLACE.                                         25

John Aubrey, the youngest son of Dr. William Aubrey, and grandfather of the

subject of this memoir, is mentioned in the private Diary of Dr. Dee (p. 52), pub

lished by the Camden Society. On his father's death he was left to the guardianship

of Archbishop Whitgift, and, when about 18 years of age,* he married Rachel
Danvers, a member of a Wiltshire noble family, and settled at Burleton, near

Stretton, in Herefordshire. There, in 1603, his son Richard was born, who was

married in his twenty-second year, in the parish church of Kington St. Michael,

to Deborah, the only child of Isaac Lyte, of Easton-Pierse, in the same parish,

\\she being then 15 years and six months old                      and on the 12th of the succeeding

month of March (1625-6) their son, John Aubrey, the future antiquary and
       ;
                                                  -f-

                                                            % is
topographer, was born, at Easton-Pierse.

His baptism, on the day of his birth, duly recorded in the register of his native

parish and he informs us that Alderman Whitson of Bristol, who had married his

grandfather's widow, was his godfather.                           In his Description the North Division of
                                                                  :

                                                                           of

                                                                                         it,
Wiltshire Aubrey thus mentions the place of his birth --" When my [great-] grand

father Thomas Lyte sold the mannor howse, with the lands near                                 he built the

howse on the browe of the hill above the brooke facing the south-east, from whence

there  lovely prospect. Here, in my grandfather's chamber (where in an ill hour
I
             is
                 a

                        \
first drew my breath, [Saturn] directly opposing my ascendant), in the chimney,

are these two escutcheons, [l. Gules, chev. between three swans argent, a mullet
                                         is a
sable for difference; 2. An eagle displayed sable, legged gules, on its breast
                                                                                              §
crescent or.]    Over the first shield 'Isaac Lyte, natus 1576;' over the second                        a
  Israel Lyte.'     was built the same year my gdfather was born." In his Designatio
'

                     It

de Easton Pierse, Aubrey gives some views of the house thus mentioned, from one

of which the engraving in the title-page of the present work has been copied

   It evident from the passage here quoted that the farm-house known by the
appellation of Lower Easton-Pierse was the place of Aubrey's nativity. Within
§tt
* Life Dr. W. Aubrey above referred to.is
Ibid, and Aubrey's Collection
          of of                p. ofGenitures, and other MSS. at Oxford.

Lives Eminent Men, vol. ii. 477.

       In one of the chamber windows represented in the wood-cut the mark              indicating, as Aubrey says,
" My grandfather Lyte's chamber, wherein drew my first breath."
                                                                  is

                                                                                   ,X

                                      I
26 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

my recollection, which extends as far back as about 1 780, there were many rooms
in that house, in one of which were several pieces of old armour, and other charac

teristics of an ancient mansion. These have all been swept away, and a modern
building erected on the site.

   The " strong and early impulse to antiquities " which Aubrey felt, is doubtless
mainly attributable to the influence exerted on his youthful mind by the historical and
traditionary lore which he derived from the progenitors of his parents, and from other
old persons with whom he associated in infancy ; for with such persons he " loved to
converse, as living histories. " He occasionally resided with his paternal grand
mother, and her second husband, Alderman Whitson,* not only in Bristol, but at

Burnet, in Somersetshire, which was the lady's jointure ; and it was during his visits

to the latter place that Aubrey became acquainted with the neighbouring druidical

monument at Stanton Drew. As early as his eighth year, he tells us, he was

familiar with Stonehenge.-f-
   He distinctly says that he was "bred at Eston (in Eremeticall solitude)," and there

he derived from old Isaac and Israel Lyte, and from several of the neighbouring
farmers, many local anecdotes, which his memory treasured up, and which he has
recorded, acknowledging their source, in his Wiltshire Manuscripts, and in his
Lives. Of Mrs. Lyte, his grandmother, who lived until his thirty-fifth year, Aubrey
always speaks with affectionate reverence, and it was his intention, " in duty to the
memory of her tenderness and dilligence in his education," to raise in Kington

* The natives of Bristol have good reason to hold in lasting reverence the name of this charitable and

noble-minded man, whose deeds in truth deserve a more than local fame. From a state of poverty John

Whitson rose, by his own industry and perseverance, till he became the wealthiest merchant of the city. He

was twice Mayor of Bristol, and represented it in four Parliaments. He was remarkable not only for his

piety and integrity, but for local patriotism, as well as for enlarged and liberal views of national policv. When

Rachel Aubrey became his third wife he had reached the summit of his prosperity, and by his Will, which,

with the exception of a provision for herself, bequeathed his property entirely to charitable uses, he appointed

her his sole executrix.  Property to the amount of more than ^£300 per annum (then a large sum) was by

this will appropriated to the foundation and support of various schools, almshouses, &c. in Bristol. Amongst the
widow's charges about his funeral is the item to " M. Aubrey et uxor £20." John Whitson wrote a Pious

Meditation, or Farewell to the World, which, with some biographical notices of him. was reprinted in 1829

(8vo. Bristol). Whitson died in 1629, in his 72d year.

  f Monumenta Britannica.
                                 aubrey's reminiscences.                                                                                           27

Church a tablet, with a longer inscription than that which had been placed there at

the time of her interment.*                                                   In 1633 he " en-
   The following are some of Aubrey's reminiscences of boyhood.

tred into his Grammar at the Latin schoole at Yatton Keynel,-f- in the church, where

the Curate, Mr. Hart, taught the eldest boyes Virgil, Ovid, Cicero, &c." He adds,
" The fashion then was to save the forules of their bookes with a false cover of parch

ment, si. old manuscript, which I was too young to understand ; but I was pleased

with the elegancy of the writing and the coloured initiall letters. I remember the

Rector (Mr. William Stump, great gr. son % of St: the cloathier of Malmesbury) had

severall manuscripts of the abbey. He was a proper man, and a good fellow, and

when he brewed a barrell of special ale his use was to stop the bunghole (under the
clay) with a sheet of manuscript. He sayd nothing did it so well, which me thought

did grieve me then to see."§ In the next year, 1634, Aubrey was placed under Mr.

Robert Latimer, Rector of Leigh-de-la-Mere, an adjoining parish, of whom he says

incidentally, " I remember my old schoolmaster, Mr. Latimer, at 70, wore a dud

geon, with a knife, and bodkin, as also my old grandfather, Lyte, and Alderman

Whitson of Bristowe, wch I suppose was the common fashion in their young dayes."||

Thos. Hobbes, the philosopher of Malmesbury, had previously been under the tuition

of Mr. Latimer, and, in a visit to his old preceptor, he first took notice of young

Aubrey. The latter thus mentions the circumstance: "This summer, 1634 (Ire-

member it was in venison season, July or Aug.), Mr. T. H. came into his native

country to visitt his friends, and amongst others he came to see his old schoolmaster,

Mr. Rob. Latimer, ^[ at Leigh-de-la-Mere, when I was then a little youth at school, in

* North Division of Wiltshire.   been a boy at school,  when Camden  visited  and took notes in the church.

\ Here his grandfather Lyte had
Original letter from Aubrey to Wood, in the Ballard Collection of Original Letters, in the Bodleian

Library, vol. xiv.

  J He was descended probably from a brother of the rich clothier; of whose own descendants a pedigree

may be seen in Collectanea Topogr. et Geneal. vol. vii. p. 83, 1841.

  § Natural History of Wilts, Chap, on Worthies. IIn 1798 visited a farmer at Charlton, near Malmes

bury, named Stump, who had some curious manuscripts, and several large folio volumes, in an old chest.

These were probably the remains of the spoil which passed, with the manor and abbatial edifices of Malmes

bury, to his ancestor Stump, the clothier.              " Rob. Latimer, obiit Nov. 1634."

|| Lives of Eminent Men, vol.    382.
                               ii.
                                    p.
                                                                                       ^f
                                                                                                                                               2,
28 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

the church, newly entered into my grammar by him. Here was the first place and

time that I ever had the honour to see this worthy, learned man, who was then

pleased to take notice of me, and the next day came and visited my relations. He
was a proper man, briske, and in very good equipage ; his haire was then quite

black. He stayed at Malmesbury, and in the neighbourhood, a weeke or better ;
'twas the last time that ever he was in Wiltshire."* From this casual circumstance

an intercourse commenced between Hobbes and Aubrey, which continued without

interruption till the death of the former in 1679, and which was characterized by

frank and liberal kindness on the one hand, and respectful deference on the other.

   Aubrey informs us "there was the like use of covering of bookes" at Mr.
Latimer's school. " In my grandfather's dayes," he says, " the manuscripts flew

about like butterflies. All musick bookes, account bookes, copie bookes, &c. were

covered with old manuscripts, as wee cover them now with blew paper or marbled

paper ; and the glovers at Malmesbury made great havock of them, and gloves were
wrapt up no doubt in many good pieces of antiquity."

   For the next two or three years ill health, and study under "dull, ignorant
                                                                    -f-
teachers," doubtless retarded his school education, but on gaining strength, in 1638,a

he was " transplanted to Blandford schoole in Dorset, to Mr. Wm. Sutton." This
he states was " in Mr. Wm. Gardner's time the most eminent schoole for the educa

tion of gentlemen in the West of England."    Here he formed lasting friendship
                                         a
with Mr. William Browne, B.D., an usher in the school. That gentleman was a son
                                           J
of the Rector of Churchill, Dorsetshire, and had himself been educated at Blandford,

under Mr. Gardner. He frequently afterwards corresponded with Aubrey, who in
mentioning his burial at Farnham, in Surrey, observes that " he was an ingenious

man, good scholar, and as admirable disputant as any was in his time in the Uni
       a
versity                  was my happiness to be his pupil."
                     It                                           of
                                                                      I§
Of Aubrey's school days there are other notices scattered throughout his writings,
                                                                            I
* Life Holies,of  of inLetters from the Bodleian, vol. ii. p. 604.
   Natural Hist,       Wilts, Chap, on Worthies. When at school                                      p.
tf                                                                  remember to have seen bibles, testa

ments, and some school books, covered with ancient writings on parchment.  also remember having learnt

the alphabet from hornbook now extinct.
               a         :

    Ibid.                                §  History Surrey, vol. iii. 335.
AUBREY AT COLLEGE :-- CIVIL WAR.                                                                   29

but they are not of much importance, though they serve to shew the interest
he felt, even at that early age, in matters of history and antiquity. He was at

Gloucester with his father when he was nine years old,* and probably at Burleton,

in Herefordshire, at an equally early date.
   On the 2d of May, 1642, being then in his seventeenth year, he was entered as

a gentleman-commoner of Trinity College, Oxford,-f- which college was probably

selected as that to which his friend and tutor, Browne, belonged. In an old collec

tion of caution-books preserved at Trinity College by the care of Dr. Bathurst, after

the havoc made by the Parliamentary visitors, and now bound in one thick volume,
quarto, there is an entry of £3 received in the year 1642, as a cautionary deposit
from John Aubrey : " a Johanne Aubrey, 3£." The name is repeated, with the same

sum annexed, in the annual accounts officially transferred to the Bursars in succes

sion, till the year 1645. The confusion of the times occasioned a chasm in the

accounts for nearly twenty years from this date, but there seems to be no reason to

suppose that his name was removed from the college books.J
   Aubrey's memoir of Dr. Kettle § affords some curious illustrations of his college

life; and in his Miscellanies he says, "When I was a freshman at Oxford, in 1642,
I was wont to go to Christchurch, Ito see King Charles I. at supper, where once

heard him say ' that as he was hawking in Scotland, he rode into the quarry, and

found the covey of partridges falling upon the hawk ;' and I do remember this ex
pression further, viz. ' and I will swear upon the book 'tis true.' When I came to
my chamber, I told this story to my tutor ; said he, that covey was London." ||

    Aubrey's first stay at Oxford was short. The anticipated hostilities between the

King and Parliament induced his parents to remove him for a time from the Univer
sity. He himself says, " The first brush was between the Earl of Northampton and
the Lord Brooke, neer Banbury, which was the latter end of July, or the beginning

of August, 1642. I was sent for [from Oxford] into the country, to my great griefe,

* See Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 554, where he mentions a curious picture of the funeral of Sir Philip
Sidney which he saw at Gloucester, and which, he says, " made such a strong impression on my young tender
Iphantasy, that remember it as if it were but yesterday."
f Aubrey's MSS. at Oxford.
                                                           \ Communicated by the Rev. Dr. Ingram.

§ Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 417.                   || Miscellanies, Chap, on Omens.
30 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

and departed the 9th of Aug. ; 'twas before I went away." * It is probable that on

leaving Oxford, at this time, Aubrey went to Broad Chalk, in Wiltshire, where his

father had become lessee of the Manor Farm, under the Earl of Pembroke. He thus
mentions Chalk as early as 1643 : " Major John Morgan fell sick of a malignant

fever as he was marching with the King's army into the West, and was brought to

my father's at Broad Chalk, where he was lodged secretly in a garret."                                                                                                          Browne's
              ;

                                                                   X
                                                                                                         a

                                                                                                                                                                           *f-
letters to him about this time, with those of other correspondents, are addressed to
" his father's house at Broad Chalk."

   On the 16th of April 1646, Aubrey was admitted student of the Middle
Temple but he distinctly states that " his father's sickness and business never per

mitted him to make any settlement to his study."

   In January 1649 he discovered the remains of the great Druidical Temple at l^
Avebury, in Wiltshire an event which he thus describes " never saw the country

about Marleborough till Christmas 1648, being then invited to Lord Francis Sey
                 it                                              I
                     if                                                                  :
                                                                                I
                                      ;                                            I
mour's, by the Honourable Mr. Charles Seymour, with whom had the honour to
                                     a
be intimately acquainted, and whose friendship ought to mention with a profound

respect to his memorie. The morrow after twelf-day Mr. Charles Seymour and Sir

William Button met with their packs of hounds at the Grey Wethers. These

downes looke as they were sowen with great stones, very thick, and in a dusky

evening they looke like flock of sheep, from whence they take their name one
                                                                 I
                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                   :
....might fancy to have been the scene where the giants fought with huge stones
against the gods.§                         'Twas here that our game began, and the chase led us at

length thorough the village of Aubury into the closes there, where was wonderfully

surprised at the sight of those vast stones, of which had never heard before, as also

· Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. 295.
                                           p.
       Miscellanies, Chap, on Omens. The attachment of John Aubrey and others of his family to the royalin
§J f          shown by many scattered passages in his papers, wherein " the Puritan faction " are severely stig
cause     is

matized. His private diaries,              preserved, would doubtless have added much interesting matter to the records
              by
                         a

                                of
                                    it if
of that eventful period. The estate of his cousin, Sir John Aubrey, the first Baronet, at Llantrithyd, was se

questrated       the Parliament, and Leoline (afterwards Judge) Jenkins became tutor to several Welsh gentlemen

                                                                 the Aubrey family.-- Wood's Fasti, part p. 231.
of quality in the house, whilst remained unoccupied            by

                                                                  of

                                                                                                                                     ii.
            Originals in Coll. Letters to Aubrey in the Ashmolean Museum.

       The Grey Wethers are described              the Beauties  Wiltshire, vol. iii. and in Hoare's Ancient Wilt

shire, vol. ii.
                             MYSTERIOUS NOISES: -- SUPERSTITIONS.                                                31

at the mighty bank and graffe about it. I observed in the enclosures some segments
of rude circles made with these stones, whence I concluded they had been in the old
time complete. I left my company awhile, entertaining myself with a more delightful

indagation,* and then, (cheered by the cry of the hounds,) overtook the company,       ;%
and went with them to Kynnet, where was a good hunting dinner provided."                      -j~

   In the same year Aubrey was collecting information respecting the mysterious

noises which disturbed the Parliamentary Commissioners at Woodstock and we

find that in 1651 he witnessed the execution of Christopher Love, on Tower Hill, on;
a charge of high-treason. " did see Mr. Christopher Love beheaded on Tower
                              I
Hill in delicate clear day about half an hour after his head was struck off the
1
clouds gathered blacker and blacker, and such terrible claps of thunder came, that
           §anever heard greater." -- Miscellanies, Chap, on Omens. This was on the 22nd of

      August. The superstition here countenanced by Aubrey was implicitly believed
J- by the inhabitants of Kington St. Michael seventy years ago when thunder
                                              a

                                                                               ;.

                                                                                     a
storm, occurring immediately after the execution of murderer near the parish, was

regarded as special indication of Divine anger. No doubt the same credulity still
               a

prevails in many parts of England.

With reference to this period of his life, he says, in his Memoir of Dr. William

"IHarvey,                    had not the honour to be acquainted with him till 1651, being my cos.

Montagu's physitian and friend. was at that time bound for Italy (but to my great
J is f                       :

                a                       I
* " Indagation, Search, inquiry, examination." Boyle, cited in Johnsons Dictionary.||

      Monumenta Britannica (and see Hoare's Ancient Wiltshire, vol. ii. 58, where the entire passage
                                                                         by p.
quoted.)                                                                                                     11
    See Letter in the Ashmolean Museum addressed to him on this subject  J. Lyddall, dated th March,

1649, and printed by Aubrey in his Miscellanies. The same topic has afforded Sir Walter Scott the groundworka
for his interesting romance of Woodstock. Sir Henry Lee of Ditchley, who figures so prominently in that
work, married the daughter of Sir John Danvers, and was therefore distantly allied to the family of Aubrey.
Moreover, his son-in-law, the Earl of Abingdon, was friend and patron of John Aubrey. These circum
stances may account for Aubrey's feeling much interest in the events relating to Woodstock. The " invisible
drummer " who haunted the manor-house of North Tidworth, Wilts, about twelve years afterwards, equally

excited the alarm of the whole neighbourhood, and gave rise to numerous  conjectures.  Addison wrote
comedy on the subject, called " The Drummer, or the Haunted House."                    :
                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                     a
\\ §  Love's principal offence was holding communication with the exiled Charles the Second he made very

long address to the populace before he was beheaded, and met his fate with fortitude.  John Gibbons suffered

on the same scaffold, immediately after him. -- Cobbett's State Trials, vol. v.

       Montague Bertie, afterwards second Earl of Abingdon.
32 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

grief dissuaded by my mother's importunity). He was very communicative, and in

order to my journey, dictated to me what to see, what company to keep, what
bookes to read, how to manage my studies." *

   His mother's importunities were caused, there is little doubt, by the illness of his

father, who for nearly two years appears to have been gradually sinking. He died

on the 21st of October 1652, at Broad Chalk, and was buried on the 26th at Kington

St. Michael       In his account of that Church, Aubrey says, "In the south-east
                  .-f-
                                                                    a
corner lieth the body of my Father, under stone thus inscribed, and now almost out :-

'HlC JACET QUOD RELIQUUM EST RlCHARDI AWBREY ARMIGERI, QUI OBIIT 21

DIE MENSIS OCTOBRIS, MDCLII.'"J
   It does not appear that Richard Aubrey sympathised with his son's pursuits, as

indeed may be inferred from the preceding auto-biography. Upon his death John

inherited the farm at Broad Chalk, where he now chiefly resided, and also the

manor of Burleton, in Herefordshire. The house at Easton-Pierse, in which he was

born, was probably still occupied by his mother's parents, Isaac and Israel Lyte.
   In 1655 Inigo Jones's volume on Stonehenge, in which the author attributed that

Temple to the Romans, was published by his son-in-law, John Webb                                                     upon which
                                                                                              I                      but, having
work Aubrey properly observes, " There
                                                                                                           it, ;
                              [i.                                                         great deal of learning in
                                         a
compared his scheme
                                                         is
                                                                a
                              e. plan] with the monument itself, found he had not

dealt fairly, but had made    Lesbian's rule, which                                       is  conformed to the stone    a;

that is, he framed the monument to his own hypothesis, which much differing                   is

from the thing itself; and this gave me an edge to make more researches, and

urther opportunity was, that my honoured and faithfull friend, Colonel James Long,
of Draycot, was wont to spend week or two every autumne at Aubury in hawking,
                  I

                                       p.

                                      a
where several times have had the happiness to accompany him. Our sport was

* Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. 382.
    Parish Register, Kington St. Michael. " Three or four days before my father died
%f                                                                                                                   I  did hear three

distinct knocks on the bed's head." -- Aubrey's Miscellanies, Chap, on Knockings.
    North Division of Wiltshire. He also says, " My father and mother are buried in the south-east angle

of the chancell.  do hope to live so long to erect little inscription of white marble to the memory of my father
                  I

                                             '
                                                                                 a

                                                                                       e
about an ell high or better.  P. M. Richardi Awbrey Armig. filii unici Johannis Awbrey de Burlton in

agro Heref. filii tertii Gulielmi Awbrey LL.D. et supplicum libellis Eliz. Reg. Magri. Viri pacifici &

fidelis amid. Uxorem duxit Deborah filiam et heredem Isaaci Lyte de Easton Pierse, per quam suscepit tres
superstites, Johannem, Gulielmum, et Thomam, filios. Obiit Xxi die Oct. An0 Dni. 1652, /Etat. 49.' "
draft of aubrey's will.                                                                      33

very good, and in a romantick countrey, for the prospects are noble and vast, the

 downs stockt with numerous flocks of sheep, the turfe rich and fragrant with thyme
and burnet, --

                                            ' Fessus ubi incubuit baculo, saxoque resedit
                                                   Pastor arundineo carmine mulcet oves ;'

nor are the nut-brown shepherdesses without their graces. But the flight of the fal
cons was but a parenthesis to the Colonell's facetious discourse, who was ' tarn Marti
quam Mercurio? and the Muses did accompany him with his hawkes and spaniells."*

   In 1656 Aubrey began the Natural History of Wiltshire,^ his first literary work,
some account of which, and of his other manuscripts, will be given at the end of

this memoir.

    Excepting the following testamentary document in John Aubrey's handwriting,
which belongs to this period of his life, we have only two or three trivial notices of
him between 1656 and 16594 The directions in this paper for a monument to his
father fixes it as later than 1 652 ; and, as his grandfather, Isaac Lyte, is named in it
as living, it must have been written prior to 1659, in which year the latter died.

                                 Draught of my Will.

   To my loving grandfather, Mr. Isaac Lyte, 50 li. and to my grandmother, 50 li. A

decent inscription of white marble for my father, and ye like for my selfe ; ye Epi
taph to be made by Mr. A. Ettrick.

  ItTM, to Anthony Ettrick, of Berford, in ye county of Dorset, Iesq., bequeath ten

pounds to buy a piece of plate, my saphire ring, Sr Walter Raleigh's history, and
Philip Comineus.

   Itm, my will is that my Executors buy for Trinity College in Oxon. a colledge pott

* Monumenta Britannica, ut supra. It is highly creditable to Aubrey's knowledge of drawing, par

ticularly of ground-plans, to have detected the misrepresentations of Jones, who, to prop a silly hypothesis,

not only altered in his plan the positions of many of the stones which formed the temple of Stonehenge, but

added others to their number.             A fair copy of it by Aubrey is also in the Library of the

  \ Now in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford.

Royal Society, London.

  I% " heard Oliver Cromwell, Protector (at dinner at Hampton Court, 1657 or 8) tell the Lord Arundell

of Wardour and the Lord FitzWilliams that he had been in all the counties of England, and that the Devon

shire husbandry was the best." -- Aubrey's Natural Hist, of Wilts, Chap, on Agriculture.

                                                                                          F
34 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

of the value of ten pounds, wtb my arms thereon inscribed, and ten pounds wch I

shall desire my honored friend Mr. Ralph Bathurst of Trinity College, and Mr. Jo.

Lydall, to lay out upon Mathematicall and Philosophicall books.

  IItm, give to the library of Jesus Colledge in Oxon, my greeke Crysostoms, Bedes,

2 tomes, and all the rest of my bookes that are fitt for ye library, as Mr. Anthony
Ettrick or Mr. John Lydall shall think fitt, excepting those bookes that were my

father's, which I bequeath to my heire.
   Itm, I bequeath to John Davenant of ye Middle Temple esq. a ring of ye value of

50s. w,h a stone in it." [The like bequest follows to Mr. William Hawes of Trinity
College, and to his friends John Lydall, and Ralph Bathurst.]

   ItTM, to MTM Mary Wiseman of Westminster my best diamond ring and . . ."*

   In 1659 Aubrey commenced a second work relating to Wiltshire, under peculiar
and interesting circumstances. It was intended to form part of a County History, as

that term is now understood ; and other portions were to have been undertaken by

gentlemen of equal learning and ability : constituting in fact the first " Topogra
phical Society" on record. Aubrey terms this work "An Essay towards the
Description of the North Division of Wiltshire," and in an Introduction to it he
thus writes : " At a meeting of gentlemen at the Devizes for choosing of Knights of
the Shire in March 1659, it was wish'd by some that this county (wherein are many
observable antiquities) was survey'd, in imitation of Mr. Dugdale's Illustration of
Warwickshire;-^ but it being too great a task for one man, Mr. William Yorke,
(Councellor at Law, and a lover of this kind of learning,) advis'd to have the labour

Idivided; he himself would undertake the Middle Division, would undertake the

 North ; T. Gore, Esq. Jeffrey Daniel, Esq. and Sir John Erneley, would be
assistants.^" The valuable collections, illustrating the topography of North Wilt
 shire, which Aubrey made in pursuance of this arrangement, remain a lasting proof

    * Original in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. Of the parties mentioned in this document Hawes and
 Bathurst both became afterwards Presidents of Trinity College, and Lydall Warden of Merton.

     + Dugdale's Warwickshire was first published in one volume, folio, 1656.

   \ Original in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. This Introduction is dated " Eston-Pierse, April 28th,

 1670," long after the project had been first discussed.
        JAMES HARRINGTON :-- HENRY NEVILL.                                               35

of his ability, industry, and zeal in a good cause. Parts of these have been printed
and published by Sir Thomas Phillipps, Bart, (ante, p. 2.) ; but it is to be regretted
that the task has not been more successfully performed, for the printed work gives
but an imperfect idea of the original manuscript. The latter has a great number of

plans, views, and other drawings, by Aubrey ; all the armorial shields referred to are

elaborately emblazoned ; the ancient deeds quoted are copied as facsimiles of the
originals, with drawings of the seals, and the whole may be regarded as the most

curious work of its kind then extant.

   In 1659 Aubrey was Churchwarden of Broad Chalk, as still indicated by the
following inscription : " This church was repaired, the four bells changed to six,

anno 1659. George Penruddock and John Aubrey, Esqrs. Churchwardens." These

bells remain in the tower. The Penruddocks were lessees of the Broad Chalk farm

before it was held by the Aubreys.*

   In the same year he became a member of a celebrated club which met to discuss

the principles of government, and which he thus mentions in his Memoir of James

Harrington, author of the then popular Oceana. He states that Harrington

" made severall essayes in poetry, but his muse was rough ; and Mr. Henry Nevill,

an ingeniose and well-bred gent., a member of the H. of Commons, and an excellent

(but conceated) poet, was his great familiar and confident friend, and dissuaded
him from tampering with poetrie, which he did, invitd Minervd, and to improve his

proper talent, viz. political reflections. Whereupon he writ his Oceana, printed,

London  Mr. Hobbes was wont to say that H. Nevil had a finger in ye pye,

and 'tis like enough. That ingeniose tractat, together with his and H. Nevill's

smart discourses and inculcations dayly at coffee-houses, made many proselytes. In

so much that A° 1659, the beginning of Michaelmas-term, he had every night a

meeting at the (then) Turkes head, in the New Pallace-Yard, where they take water,

the next house to the staires, at one Miles's, where was made purposely a large

ovall-table, with a passage in the middle for Miles to deliver his coffee. About it sate

his disciples, and the virtuosi. The discourses in this kind were the most ingeniose

Iand smart that ever heard, or expect to hear, and larded with great eagernesse ;

        * Bowles's History of Chalk Hundred, in Hoare's Modern Wiltshire, pp. 133, 151.
36 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

the arguments in the Pari, house were but flatt to it. He now printed a little

pamphlet called the Rota, 4to. Here we had (very formally) a ballotting-box, and

ballotted how things should be carried, by way of Tentamens. The room was every

Ievening full as it could be crammed.  cannot now recount the whole number ;

Mr. Cyriack Skinner, an ingeniose young gent., scholar to Jo. Milton, was chaire-
...man. There was Mr. Hen. Nevill, Major Wildman, Mr
                                                    Wooseley, of                     ,

StaflFordsh., Mr. Coke, gr. son of Sir Edw., Sir William Poulteney (Chaireman), Mr.

Maximilian Petty (a very able man in these matters, and who had more than once

turned the councill-board of O. Cromwell, his kinsman) ; Mr. Michael Malett, Mr. *
.... ....Carteret, of Garnely,
....Verner, Mr. Edward Bagshaw,  Cradoc, a merchant, Mr. Hen. Ford, Major

                                 Croon, M.D., 'cum multis aliis, now slipt out of

....my memorie, which were as auditors as myselfe.Severall, e. g. ye Earle Tirconnel,
                                                        Stafford, Esq. &c. opponents.
Sr John Penruddock, &c. Mr. Jo. Birkenhead,

Several soldiers (officers). We many times adjourned to the Rhenish wine house.
One time, Mr. Stafford, and his gang, came in drunk from the tavern e, and affronted

the junto ; the soldiers offered to kick them downe stayres, but Mr. Harrington's

moderation and persuasion hindered it. Mr. Stafford tore their orders and minutes.

The doctrine was very taking ; and the more because, as to human foresight, there

was no possibility of the King's returne. But the greatest part of the Parliament-

men perfectly hated this designe of rotation by ballotting, for they were cursed

tyrants, and in love with their power, and 'twas death to them, except 8 or 10,

to admitt of this way, for H. Nevill proposed it in the House, and made it out to

them that except they embraced that modell of government they would be ruined ;

sed quos perdere vult Jupiter, hos, &c. Pride of senators for life is insufferable ; and
they were able to grind any one they owed ill will to powder ; they were hated by

the armie, and their country they represented, and their name and memorie stinkes.

'Twas worse than tyranny. Now this modell upon rotation was that the third part

of the House should rote out by ballot every yeare, so that every ninth yeare the

House would be wholly altered. No magistrate to continue above 3 yeares, and all

to be chosen by ballot, than which manner of choice nothing can be invented more

fair and impartiall. Well ; this meeting continued Novemb., Dec, Jan., till Feb. 20
IRELAND. -- HOBBES ; COOPER ; LOGGAN.                                                 37

or 21, and then, upon the unexpected turne upon Generall Monke's comeing in, all

these airie modells vanished. Then 'twas not fitt, nay treason, to have donne such ;

but I well remember he [Harrington] severall times (at the breaking up) sayd,
' Well, the King will come in. Let him come in, and call a Parliament of ye great

cavaliers in England, so they be men of estates, and let them sett but 7 yeares, and

they will all turn Common wealthes men."'*

   The arrival of General Monk in London, and the public events which ensued, are

described by Aubrey in his interesting memoir of that individual. On the 23rd

July, 1660, Sir John Aubrey, of Llantrithyd, was created a Baronet by King Charles
II. In the same month Aubrey accompanied his friend, Anthony Ettrick, to

Ireland, and on returning in August they narrowly escaped shipwreck. About

twelve months afterwards he thus wrote to Thomas Hobbes : " From N. Wales I
went into Ireland, where I saw the manner of living of the natives, scorning

industry and luxury, contenting themselves only with things necessary. That king

dom is in a very great distemper, and hath need of your advice to settle it ; the

animosities between the English and Irish are very great, and will ere long, I am

confident, break into a war. Sir, you have done me so much honour in your

acquaintance and civilities, that I want language to expresse my thankfulnesse ;
among other favours I particularly return you my hearty thankes for the trouble I
gave you to sitt for your picture,-f- which is an honour I am not worthy of, and I
Ibeg your pardon for my great boldness, but assure you no man living more prizes
it, nor hath greater devotion for you then myselfe. Your brother I heare is well,

* Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 371. See also the same passage, with alterations and additions by
Wood, in Athen. Oxon. (Life of Harrington.)
I+ In Aubrey's Life of Hobbes (Lives of Eminent Mm, vol. ii. p. 632,) he says : " He did me the honour to sitt
for his picture to Jo. Baptist Caspars, an excellent painter, and 'tis a good piece.  presented it to the [Royal]

Societie twelve yeares since." It appears by a letter from Hollar to Aubrey, in the Ashmolean Museum

(dated in 1665), that the former engraved a portrait of Hobbes from a picture lent to him by Aubrey : no
doubt the picture by Caspars here alluded to. Aubrey also mentions another portrait of Hobbes (Lives, vol.
ii. p. 610). " Mr. Samuel Cowper, the prince of limners of this last age, drew his picture as like as art could

afford, and one of the best pieces that ever he did, which his Majesty (Chas. II.) at his returne bought of him,
Iand conserves as one of his greatest rarities, in his closet at Whitehall. This picture intend to be borrowed

of his Majesty, for Mr. Loggan to engrave an accurate piece by, which will sell well both at home and abroad."
38 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

whom I intend to see on Monday next, and shall with him sacrifice to your health
in a glasse of sack. Thus intreating your excuse for this scribled paper, I wish you

all happines, and am, with all my heart, Sir, your most affectionate friend, and most

humble servant, John Aubrey. Easton Pierse, Aug. 30, 1661. These for his

most honoured friend Mr. Thomas Hobbes, at the Earle of Devonshire's, at Salis

bury House in the Strand. Post paid."*

   On the 22nd of April, 1663, the Royal Society was incorporated by a charter

granted by King Charles the Second. Viscount Brouncker was the first President
of the society, and on the Council were, Sir Kenelm Digby, Sir William Petty, and
John Evelyn. By virtue of a power reposed in them by the charter, the President
and Council, on the 20th of May following, nominated such persons as they thought
desirable as Fellows, and Aubrey was one of those so named : his friends Dryden,
Wren, Hooke, -- in fact all the literati of the age, --were also nominated Fellows at

the same time.-f- After the first two months new members were elected by vote.
The history of the formation of this society is well known. There is no doubt that
Aubrey had belonged to it before its incorporation, and perhaps even as early as the
year 1651, when the scientific meetings from which it originated were held in the

chambers of Dr. Petty, and at other places in Oxford. King Charles II. manifested

considerable interest in the proceedings of the Royal Society, and soon after it was

incorporated he attended the meetings, and held frequent interviews with the
President and many of the most eminent members. An interesting event in

Aubrey's life had its rise in a conversation of this kind :

   " A. D. 1663. King Charles II. discoursing one morning with my Lord Brounker

and Dr. Charlton, concerning Stoneheng, they told his Majestie what they had heard
me say concerning Aubury, for that it did as much excell Stoneheng as a cathedral
does a parish church. His Majestie admired that none of our chorographers had
taken notice of it, and commanded Dr. Charlton to bring me to him the next

morning. I brought with me a draught of it, done by memorie only, but well

   * This letter was printed many years ago in the European Magazine,  Ibut am not aware in whose pos«
session the original then was, nor whether it is still extant.

   + Thomson's History of the Royal Society, 4to. 1812.
                     AVEBURY VISITED BY CHARLES II.                                                           39

                     with which His Majestie was pleased, gave me his hand to
enough resembling    it,
                                            a
kisse, and commanded me to wait on him at Marleborough, when he went to Bath

with his Queen (which was about fortnight after),* which did and the next day,
when the court were on their journey, His Majestie left the Queen and diverted to
                                                                                       I

                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                         a
Aubury, with the view whereof he and His Royal Highnesse the Duke of Yorke

were very well pleased His Majesty then commanded me to write description of
              it

                                 ;;
it,  and present to him and the Duke of Yorke commanded me to give an account

of the old camps and barrows in the plaines. As His Majestie departed from

Aubury to overtake the Queen, he cast his eie on Silbury Hill, about a mile off,

which he had the curiosity to see, and walkt up to the top of it,-f- with the Duke of

York, Dr. Charlton and attending them. They went to Lacock to dinner, and
                     I
                        I

                                         a

                                           it
that evening to Bathe, all the gentry and commonaltie of those parts waiting on

them, with great acclamations of joy, &c. In September following surveyed that
                                                                                       is,
old monument of Aubury with plane table, and afterwards tooke a review of
                                                                                                     ;I
Stoneheng, and then composed this following discourse, in obedience to His

Majestie's command, and presented to him, which he commanded me to put

in print."
     aJ
          isIn the year 1664 Aubrey went into France. He landed on the 11th of June at

Calais, visited Paris, Tours, and Orleans, and returned in October beyond which

little more known of his continental tour. There however, in the Ashmolean

Museum letter addressed to him by Hobbes whilst he was at Paris, wherein
the latter approves of his design of seeing " the Loyer, and the country of Brittany,
"Iand that about Geneva;" and adds,
                                                                                       see you mean to husband all your time to

the best advantage.  have nothing to add but my wishes for your safety and the
                     I

                                           is
continuance of yor health, which not to be despaired of in one that can temper

himself from excesses, and especially in fruit, as you can."

· The King commenced this progress on the 26th of August, and returned to London on the 2nd of October.

He was sumptuously entertained at Marlborough by Lord Seymour, and at Longleat         by  Sir James Thynne.

      The following passage in Dr. Stukeley's volume on Abury (folio, 1743,) may possibly refer to another
visit of the monarch to that interesting temple --" Some old people remember Charles II., the Duke of York,
If
                                                                                    :
and Duke of Monmouth riding up Silbury Hill." (p. 43)

     Monumenta Britannica, ut supra.
40 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Aubrey's discovery of the mineral spring at Seend, in Wiltshire, in 1665, has been

"Ialready noticed. In the same year he says, under the date "Novemb. 1,"                         made

my first address (in an ill hour) to Joane Sumner."* More than once prior to this,

Aubrey had entertained matrimonial projects. In his Collection of Genitures (p. 110)
he remarks, " My mother fell from her horse, and brake her arme, the last day of

April 1649-50, when I was a suitor to Mrs. Jane Codrington." In another paper he
says, "About the 16 or 18 April, 1651, I sawe that incomparable good conditioned

gentlewoman, Mrs. M. Wiseman, with whom at first sight I was in love." And he

tells us that in 1655 and 1656 he had "several love and lawe suites." And again,

" 1657. Novemb. 27, obiit Dna Kasker Ryves, with whom I was to marry, to my

great losse." But neither Aubrey's connexion with Mrs. Codrington, nor Mrs.-f-
Wiseman, nor even with " Diia Kasker Ryves," through whose untimely death he

had so great a loss, were equally unfortunate in their results with that which he

now formed with Mrs. Joan Sumner: for in December 1667 he was arrested in

Chancery-lane at her suit. In February following he, with some difficulty, obtained

a verdict against her, with £600 damages, in a trial at Salisbury ; but the amount of

those damages was reduced to £300 on a new trial at Winchester in 1669, and in

those days, as at present, even that amount was probably insufficient to defray his

costs, still less to compensate him for the annoyance and anxiety attendant on such

proceedings. Well might he say " in an ill hour I made my first address to Joan

Sumner." However, it must be borne in mind that we have only the ex-parte
statements of Aubrey in this matter, and that the lady doubtless considered herself

an equal sufferer by it.

  It is strange that Dr. Rawlinson, with Aubrey's manuscript before him, in which

these circumstances are mentioned, should have inferred from it that he was
married. He observes, " He returned from France in October 1664, when our

author was married, but to whom he has not thought fit to tell ; perhaps because
he repented of his match, as seems to be implied in a note, where he says that on

   * Accidents of John Aubrey, ante, p. 19.                        miss being  in fact a modern  abbreviation

  f Unmarried females were in Aubrey's time called " mistresses,"

introduced probably to contradistinguish them from married women.
AUBREY S ALLEGED MARRIAGE REFUTED.  41

Novr 1, 1665, he made his first addresses (in an ill hour) to Joan Sumner:"* and

in accordance with this remark of Dr. Rawlinson all authors who have since written
memoirs of Aubrey, have repeated the statement that he was unhappily married.

   A careful examination of all our antiquary's correspondence and memoranda has
however enabled me to give an unqualified contradiction to this statement. It will

be shown hereafter that not only was he unmarried eight years after the time to
which this note refers, but that he died a bachelor.

                                   * Memoir prefixed to Aubrey's History of Surrey.
42

                                   tfflap. III.

Aubrey's first meeting with anthony a wood --wood's opinion of him -- reverse of fortune --
      law-suits and pecuniary difficulties sells his estates progress of his works
     assists anthony a wood in his publications aubrey's predilection for astrological
      studies his perambulation of surrey contributes an engraving to dugdale's monas-
     ticon receives a protection from his creditors sells his books his life of hobbes
     begins his "lives of eminent men"and "idea of education of young gentlemen" land
      given to him by william penn his mother's death.

   About the year 1667, during one of his visits to Oxford, Aubrey became
acquainted with Anthony a Wood, and till within a short time of the latter's death

a friendly and familiar intercourse continued to subsist between them. Wood, in

his Diary, gives a minute account of the commencement of their acquaintance. In
quoting this however it is essential to premise, that the contemptuous language it
applies to Aubrey, does not convey Wood's opinion of him et the time now referred
to, for the article containing it was unquestionably written long afterwards ;--pro

bably indeed so late as 1693 or 1694. On any other supposition Wood can only be
regarded as acting in a most deceitful manner ; for throughout this interval of more

than five-and-twenty years, it is known that they maintained a continuous corres
pondence, conducted on both sides in the warmest and most friendly terms. The

passage referred to is as follows: "An. 1667.* John Aubrey of Easton Piers in

the parish of Kington St. Michael, in Wiltsh., was in Oxon. with Edw. Forest a

bookseller, living against Alls. coll. to buy books. He then saw lying on the stall
Notitia Academics Oxonierms ,-f- and asking, who the author of that book was? he

[Edw. Forest] answer'd, the report was, that one Mr. Anth. Wood, of Merton coll.
was the author, but was not. Whereupon Mr. Aubrey, a pretender to antiquities,

* In page 16, ante, it will be seen that Aubrey affixes the date 1665 to the name of Wood, in his list of

Amid, but this is doubtlessly incorrect.                in 1665, 4to.

 f Fulman's Academice Oxoniensis Notitia was published
AUBREY AND ANTHONY A WOOD.                                                                     43

having been contemporary to A. Wood's elder brother* in Trin. coll. and well ac

quainted with him, he thought, that he might be as well acquainted with A. W. himself.
Whereupon repairing to his lodgings, and telling him who he was,-f* he got into his

acquaintance, talk'd to him about his studies, and offer'd him what assistance he

could make, in order to the completion of the work that he was in hand with.}: Mr.
Aubrey was then in a sparkish garb, came to towne with his man and two horses,
spent high, and flung out A. W. at all recknings. But his estate of 700li. per an.
being afterwards sold, and he reserving nothing of it to himself, liv'd afterwards in

a very sorry condition, and at length made shift to rub out by hanging on Edm.
Wyld, esq., living in Blomesbury neare London, on James earle of Abendon, whose
first wife was related to him, and on Sr Joh. Aubrey, his kinsman, living somtimes in
Glamorganshire and somtimes at Borstall neare Brill in Bucks. He was a shiftless
person, roving and magotieheaded, and somtimes little better than crased. And
being exceedingly credulous, would stuff his many letters sent to A. W. with folliries,
and misinformations, which somtimes would guid him into the paths of errour."§

   Now it is evident from the above extract that it could not have been written at

the beginning of the intimacy of Wood and Aubrey ; and in a future page some
reasons, it is hoped of a conclusive nature, will be offered, tending to show that it

was penned about the year 1693. In the meantime it may be sufficient to show
that the spirit of it is totally opposed to the feelings with which they regarded each
other soon after their acquaintance commenced, by adverting to some letters which
passed between them at the beginning of the year 1668. On the 8th of January in
that year Aubrey wrote to Wood, probably for the first time, as follows : " Deare

ISir, must never forgett your kindnesse to me when at Oxon. I must assure you
I Iesteeme myselfe very happy in yor acquaintance. As often as may serve you
Ipray let me heare from you, for am to my power as zealous for you as any one in

   * Edward Wood, who was of Trinity College from 1643 till his death in 1655.  which however  was not

  f Aubrey's age at this time was 42 ; Wood was about 7 years younger.
  J Most probably the History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford,

published till 1674.

    § Wood's Auto-biography, in Bliss's edit, of Athen. Oxon., vol. i. p. Ix.
44 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

this nation."* In reply to this Wood says, " I wish I had acquaintance with more

of yr publick spirit, who might satisfie me of such matters." Other letters from
                                                                                    a
Aubrey, written on the 19th of July, and on the 11th of November, in the same            a:
year, are couched in similar terms. In the latter he says " write in hast (not
                                                                                         -f-I
yet having finished my lawe suite).                                ;I         will lengthen my life little, by reviving my

spirits at Oxon."  %

Up to this time     it      clear, from the account by Anthony Wood above quoted, that
                        is

Aubrey enjoyed handsome income but we find that he was soon afterwards under
                   a

the necessity of selling nearly all his property, result which Wood seems to infer
                                                                              a

was the consequence of his own extravagance or mismanagement.                                  A  " shiftless" im

providence by no means an inconsistent feature in the character of the generous

John Aubrey, but may be presumed that the failure of law-suits in which, perhaps
is
           it

without any imprudence on his own part, he had become involved, had at least an

equal influence in producing this reverse of fortune. Before his father's death he

had been summoned home from Oxford "to look after his country business, and solicite

                   and his father died, " leaving him," as he somewhat obscurely says,
aLawe suite

                   ;"
                        §

                                                      ||
"debts 1800 lib. and law proceed. 1,000 lib."§ Only four or five years afterwards
he " began his chargeable and tedious lawe suite on the Entaile in Brecknockshire

and Monmouthshire," which suit he elsewhere says "cost him 1,200 lib."§ In
1655 and 1656 he tells us that he had "several love and lawe suites ;"[| and besides

these, as already mentioned, he was harassed, at later period, not only with     a

" treacheries and enmities in abundance," but with legal proceedings respecting Mrs.

Sumner. References to the law suit on the entail in Brecknockshire are of frequent

occurrence in Aubrey's manuscripts. He mentions Thomas Corbet, Esq. of Gray's                     ^f
Inn, and Judge Rumsey, as his counsel, the latter specially "about the entaile."

* Original in the Ballard Coll. Letters, Bodleian Library, vol. liv.
    Copy, in Wood's handwriting, indorsed on the above.

    Original in the same volume.
||f § % f

                                                              ii.

                                           p. of
Autobiography, ante.

Accidents of John Aubrey, ante.

Lives of Eminent Men, vol.                                         359, 522.
                               SALE OF AUBREY S ESTATES.                                                      45

One of his notes runs thus :-- " I have the Deed of Entaile of the Lands in Brecon,

and Monmouth. South Wales, hy my great-grandfather William Aubrey, LL.D. wch

lands now of right belong to me."* And in his Life of Dr. Aubrey he more fully
states his claim to the estates in question, as follows :-- "He [Dr. A.] purchased

Abercunvrig (the ancient seate of the family) of his cosen Aubrey. He built the

great house at Brecknock ; his studie lookes on the river Uske. He could ride nine

miles together in his owne land in Breconshire. In Wales and England he left

2500 lib. per ann. whereof there is now none left in the family                He made

a deed of entaile (36 Eliz.) wch is also mentioned in his will, whereby he entailes the

Brecon estate on the issue male of his eldest son, and in defailer, to skip the 2d

son (for whom he had well provided, and had married a great fortune) and to come
to the third. Edward the eldest had seaven sonnes, his eldest son, Sir Will, had

Ialso seaven sonnes, and so am heere the 18th man in remainder, w* putts me in

mind of Dr. Donne,

                                                    " For what doth it availe
                               " To be the twentieth man in an entaile ? " (·

   Entangled in such a net of litigation, it is not surprising that Aubrey was
ultimately in fear of his creditors, and apprehensive not only of legal proceedings
during his life but of the seizure and destruction of his literary labours after his death.

   As early as 1661 and 1662 he sold his two estates in Herefordshire. The manor

of Burleton near Hereford, which had belonged to his father, he disposed of to Dr.
F. Willis, and an estate, the name of which he writes as Stratford, or Strafford,

[meaning perhaps Stretford, a small parish near Leominster,] to Herbert Croft,
Bishop of Hereford.^ Some letters from the reverend prelate respecting this pur
chase are in Aubrey's collection at Oxford. In one he states that " he has made

                     a
                        it,

                                    ;

                                   is
inquiries respecting and assured that, together with the copyhold, the utmost

value              hundred year that scarce any improvement can be made in by the
J\ *                                                                           in
MS. slip at the end of Aubrey's Faber Fortunes.is                                                         is
            by of a
Lives Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 215.                                                              it

Consecrated 21 Jan. 1662, and continued bishop of that see till his death      1691. He very highly

spoken of Brotone Willis, and  by  Wood in Athena Oxonienses.
46 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

greatest industry ; and that there is scarce enough wood upon it for necessary uses
and fences." He complains that there is " so much arable, and so little meadow

and pasture." Upon the whole he thinks that "18 years purchase will be in this

country the full value ; and this," the bishop adds, " I shall give."*

  On the 2nd of October, 1669, Aubrey says in a letter to Anthony a Wood, " I
shall be the next weeke at Easton-Pierse, where I should be glad to heare from you

by the Bristowe Carrier, in Jesus College Lane, to be left at Michaell's-Kington."-!-

It was perhaps during this sojourn at Easton that Aubrey made a series of rude

drawings of the house and grounds, bearing the date 1 669. % He was there again
on the 28th of April following, § which is the latest trace of his residence at his

native place, for Easton-Pierse was sold, and the farm transferred by its tenant to

the new landlord at Lady-day 1671. Aubrey considered the transfer of this pro

perty an important, or rather a fatal event. He carefully noted not only the day but
the hour when it was effected, and drew a scheme or horoscope for the precise time.

This is marked " Eston-Pierse possession," with the following note : " 25 March

1671. I. P.M. possession given by Jonathan Rogers to Mr. Sherwin."||
  To illustrate more clearly this crisis in Aubrey's affairs, the passages bearing upon

it in his auto-biographical papers may be here repeated.    In the first of them he
says, " Sold Easton Pierse and the farme at Broad Chalke.  Lost 500/i., + 200M. goods

and timber. Absconded as a banished man. Ubi in monte Dei videbitur. I was

in as much affliction as a mortall could bee, and never quiet till all was gone. Sub

mitted my selfe to God's will; wholly cast my selfe on God's providence

^JjJNever quiett, nor anything of happiness till  ^(J 1670-1671, at what time

Providence raysed me unexpectedly good friends." In the other he has the fol

lowing words: "1669 and 1670. I sold all my estate in Wilts. From 1670 to
this very day (I thank God) I have enjoyed a happy delitescency."

   * Coll. of Letters to Aubrey in the Ashmolean Museum, vol. i.

  f Original (dated Broad Chalk) in the Ballard Coll. of Letters, Bodleian Library, vol. xiv.
  J " Designatio de Easton Piers in Cora. Wilts. Per me (heu !) infortunatum Johannem Aubrey, R.S.

Socium. Anno Dni 1669." Original in the Ashmolean Museum.

   § Date of Introduction to North Division of Wiltshire, ante, p. 34.
   || Collection of Genitures, in the Ashmolean Museum.
            SALE OF BROAD CHALK FARM, AND TROUBLES.                                                  47

   Now, though Aubrey so emphatically says he was at this period of his life
" divested of all," there is still reason to believe that he retained some interest in

the Broad Chalk farm till a later date ; for, in a letter to Wood, he mentions the

death of his mother, in 1686, and says, "My head has been a fountain of teares,

and this is the first letter (except of businesse) that I have writt since my Griefe. I

...am now involved in a great deale of trouble : and Chalke must be sold : but I hope
to make some reservation for myselfe.                                                     I shall shortly goe to Chalke to see how

matters goe there."* Perhaps Aubrey continued to hold the lease of that farm from

the Earl of Pembroke, but assigned the remainder of the term to Farmer Good,
instead of occupying it himself.

Although his circumstances were thus altered, it is gratifying to find that he

retained the friendship and esteem of his intellectual associates, and even secured

the patronage of other influential and accomplished men whom he mentions in his
notes. His resignation and content of mind evince a philosophic disposition ; and

it is especially pleasing to observe with what zeal, after his reverses, he applied

himself to the prosecution and completion of the literary works which he had

commenced.

He writes thus: "A° 1671 having sold all, and disappointed as aforesaid of

moneys I recd. I had so strong an impulse to (in good part) finish the Description

of Wilts in 2 volumes in fol. that I could not be quiett till I had donne                     a      and

that with danger enough, tanquam canis Nilo, for feare of Crocodiles (i.) Catch-                it,
poles."-f- Besides this he seems to have arranged, and brought into a somewhat
f

           ;
                                        it

                                                  of

                                                                                       e
finished shape, the work which had its origin in his account of Avebury, and which,

embracing, besides notices of Druidical monuments, various antiquities of gene
ral nature, he designated " Monumenta Britannica." This work bears the date

1671, about which time appears that he contemplated printing it. Moreover

he was still actively engaged in collecting materials to assist his friend Wood,

for his History and Antiquities of Oxford. The latter wrote to him as follows

  * Original in the Ballard Collection Letters, Bodleian Library, vol. xiv.                   for Worth
     Auto-biography, ante. By the " Description of Wilts, " Aubrey means his collections

Wiltshire the other work on the county he properly calls the " Natural History Wilts."
                                                                                          of
48 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

"Ion the 10th of November, 1671 :  am verie glad yl y° have satisfied me in so

many things, and cease not to send into divers parts for further information of

I Iother men : speake in my conscience (for have told other men of it already) y*

I have had and shall have more from y° as to these things then all people besides

IWw'soever.  have had hitherto besides, hath been for the most part by mine

owne industry & purse."*

There is no proof that Aubrey devoted his attention to Astrology before the time

     of his misfortunes; but at the close of 1671 he applied to the celebrated Henry
· Coley ; who, after making the necessary calculations, furnished him with a series

of predictions of the events likely to happen to him on every day in the
month of January following. At the end of the next year Coley again drew his

horoscope in a most elaborate manner, appending similar predictions for the whole

of the year 1673. The very minute and circumstantial nature of these prophecies

show clearly that Coley must have enjoyed a high degree of popularity to enable him

to promulgate, without fear or hesitation, such absurd documents. To the paper last

mentioned he prefixes some remarks on a calculation of Aubrey's nativity by his

rival, John Gadbury, some of which are perhaps worth quoting. "By Mr. G's

Igood favour," he begins, "if Imay presume, rather take y8 to be ye true Nativity,

for ye Gentleman is a nimble, active person, and one yl to my knowledge ys curious

to inspect all things that are learned or ingenious. Then what can be more signifi

cant than 5 in d of $ in y6 ascendant in ye dignities of ? ? The Native was never

yet marryed (though he is is no enemie to ye female Sex), and what better denotes

such an accident then ye position of ^ in ye 7th in 8 to q and 5 in the ascendant :
it also gives an Impediment in ye Native's speech, and aptly shews great vexations

in Love affairs, wch the Native has experienced to purpose." After more to the same

effect, Coley concludes thus : " Therefore let Mr. G. try 'tother touch at
*                                                                                                        for this

          it

                          a

                            of
                                                      is
                                                                                                    it,
looks no more like Esq. AG than an apple  like an oyster." The Collection of

Genitures in which these papers are placed bears the dates " Londini, May 29, 1674,"

and " 1677," and  shows that about this period Aubrey must have been busily

Original in Coll. Letters to Aubrey in the Ashmolean Museum, vol. ii.
                       LICENCE TO SURVEY SURREY.                                  49

engaged in ascertaining the precise hours of the births of most of his literary friends,

and other public characters, having drawn their horoscopes himself, and inserted

them, with astrological remarks, in the volume here referred to.

   In 16/3 Aubrey was still actively engaged in literary pursuits, and on the 2nd of
May in that year " Mr. Ogilby, the Royal Cosmographer," granted him a licence to

survey the county of Surrey. This very curious document not only tends to show

the public estimation of our antiquary, but is a memorable circumstance of the

times. It states that " by virtue of His Majesty's warrant, dated 24th August, 1671,

authorizing me to proceed in the actual survey of His Majesty's kingdom of England

and dominion of Wales, I have constituted, ordained, and made, and by these

presents do constitute, ordain, and make John Aubrey, Esq. my lawful Deputy for

the county of Surrey and parts adjacent, willing and requiring in His Majesty's

name all justices of the peace, mayors, bailiffs, sheriffs, parsons, vicars, &c. to be

aiding and assisting my said deputy or his agents in the said actual survey, and upon

his reasonable request to admit him free access to all public registers or other books,

whereby the geographical and historical description of His Majesty's said kingdom

may be any ways promoted or ascertained."* Under the authority of this appoint

ment Aubrey visited all the principal places in Surrey, and collected information from
the parish registers, copies of monumental inscriptions, and other historical, topo

graphical, and traditionary details, which were published after his death, with

numerous additions, notes, &c. by Dr. Richard Rawlinson, with the double title of
" A Perambulation of the County of Surrey," and " The Natural History and Antiqui

ties of the County of Surrey." Aubrey says at the beginning of the work, " I enter'd

upon the Perambulation of the County of Surrey July 1, 1673, and left off about the
                                   "
middle  of  September  following      an  exceedingly  short  time, as  remarked  by Manning
                                  :

and Bray, in their history of the county, for the compilation of a county history. But

the printed work was probably the result also, in a great measure, of information

   * The original document, under the hand and seal of Ogilby, is in Aubrey's MS. Perambulation of
Surrey (in the Ashmolean Museum) : likewise a printed copy of the King's warrant, authorizing the former to
survey and describe the kingdom. Speaking of this transaction Gough says, " One may venture to pronounce
Ogilby 's plan little better than that of the modem booksellers, -- to raise him a little money." (British
Topography, vol. ii. p. 262.) Aubrey gives some account of Ogilby in his Lives of Eminent Men.
50 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

procured in other visits, and from private and published sources. Nearly three years

afterwards Aubrey submitted his papers on Surrey to the perusal of his friend Evelyn,
who thus wrote to him on the 8th of February, 1675-6 : " Sir, With incredible satis

faction have I perus'd your Natural History of Surrey, &c. ; and greatly admire

both your Industry in undertaking so profitable a Work, and your Judgment in the

several Observations which you have made. It is so useful a Piece, and so obliging,

that I cannot sufficiently applaud it. Something I would contribute to                            it,       were

                                                                                                    if

                                                                                                        it

possible but your Spicilegium so accurate, that you have left nothing almost for
;
  a                                                                     printed at the beginning of Aubrey's

                                      is
                                                               is
those who come after you." This letter

Surrey. The more recent works of Manning and Bray, and Brayley, show that

Evelyn greatly overrated the merits of Aubrey's writings.

   In the summer of 1673 he was at Hothfield, in Kent, "the seat of my singular good

lord, Nicholas E. of Thanet," where he surveyed the parish church in order to

establish theory as to the variation in the positions of old churches, with reference

to the cardinal points of the compass. The church was dedicated to St. Margaret,

and he found, or fancied, its position " answer to the sun-rising on St. Margaret's

day, 20th July," whence he infers that churches were formerly so placed that their

eastern ends should be directly opposite to that part of the horizon where the sun
rose on the day of their patron saints. He says, " did make this observation pre
                                                                        I

                                                                                               a
cisely on the day of the vernal equinox, 1673, at sun-setting."*

   In the same year set of queries was printed, to be addressed to persons likely to
a
        a

                                    a

                                                              :
afford information on the subjects to which they referred, with view to publishing

new edition of Camden's Britannia, task afterwards executed by Bishop Gibson.
                                                                 1
On copy of these queries, preserved amongst Aubrey's manuscripts, he has
                                                                  J. a
written the following note " These queries were considered at several meetings by

Christ. Wren, John Hoskyns, R. Hook, Ogilby, John Aubrey, Gregory King."-f-

In this year likewise the third and concluding volume of Dugdale's Monasticon

+                       contained (at p. 36.) an account of Osney Abbey, near Oxford,

                 is of

                   It
was published.

* Remaines Gentilisme (Lansdowne MS. 231, British Museum), 3.           p.

This paper      annexed to the Perambulation of Surrey, in the Ashmolean                          Museum.  It will be

observed that neither Gibson nor Tanner appear in this list.
DUGDALE S MONASTICON : WOOD S HISTORY OF OXFORD.                                                                 51

accompanied by an engraving with the following inscriptions : " Prospectus Ruinarum
Abbatise de Osney, juxta Oxon. W. Hollar fecit ;" * and on a tablet, surmounted by a
shield bearing the arms of Aubrey with several quarterings, " Insignes hujusce

Fabricae Ruinas, quas Antiquitatis erg6 plurimum suspexit Adolescentulus jamtum

Oxoniensib ascriptus, & (quod commodum accidit) paulo antequam Bello Civili

funditus e medio tollerentur, delineandas curavit, Posteris quasi redivivas, L. D.

C. Q,. Johannes Albericus de Eston-Pierse in agro Wilts, Arm."*

The plate is engraved in Hollar's usual style, and there can be no doubt was

executed from one of the drawings by Mr. Hesketh, as already mentioned by Aubrey

in his Auto-biography (ante, p. 14). Impressions of the same plate were given
in the second volume of the next edition of the Monasticon (1682, p. 136), but
                                                                        is

                                                                                            1
                                                                                               1 -J~

                                                                                        it

                                                                                                             is

                                                                                                         it
was not re-engraved for the new work edited by Caley, &c. In the article
it

                   a

                            it it
Aubrey, in the Biographia Britannica, this plate                                    particularly mentioned with

approval, and the writer adds " he will certainly be no loser by who will be at the

expense of having engraved again." Acting perhaps on this hint, Mr. Skelton
published copy of in his Oxonia Antiqua Restaurata (pi. 5). This not. how
ever, an exact fac-simile of Hollar's plate, either in style or effect, and wants

the original arms and inscriptions.

Besides referring to this print Dr. Rawlinson says that " when that great work the

Monasticon was in embrio," Mr. Aubrey gave to " his best assistance."                         He was
                                                                        it

                                                                                           J

on intimate terms with Sir William Dugdale, but we have no other evidence that he

contributed any literary materials to the Monasticon.

work, however, which was deeply indebted for its usefulness to Aubrey's in
%f A
                                               a
                                                                     ;
dustry, was published in 1674 namely, Wood's Historia et Antiquitates Universitatis

* "View of the ruins of the abbey of Osney, near Oxford." " The noble ruins of this fabrick, drawn from          a

love to antiquity, while yet youth at Oxford, and (which was not little lucky) but short time before theyita
were entirely destroyed in the Civil War, secured now, and as were revived, are dedicated to posterity, bya

John Aubrey, of Easton Piers, in the county of Wilts, Esq."--Translation of the original Latin, in Biographia

Britannica, but not rendered with precision.                                        by  some misfortune or other, want
       Dr. Rawlinson states that " most of the copies of the Monasticon,

this plate." The British Museum copies of both editions, however, have it.

      Life, prefixed to Aubrey's Hist, of Surrey.
52 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Oxoniensis. We have seen how gratefully Wood acknowledged these obligations in

a private communication to his friend, and he now publicly thanked him as follows :
" Transmissum autem nobis est illud epitaphium a viro per-humano, Johanne Alberico,

vulgo Aubrey, armigero, hujus collegii olim generoso commensali, jam vero e Regia
Societate Londini ; viro inquam, tam bono, tam benigno, ut publico solum commodo,
nec sibi omnino, natus esse videatur." (lib. ii. p. 297.) This work was originally
published in Latin, at the express desire of Bishop Fell (the Dean of Christ Church),
who defrayed the expenses of printing it. Wood wished it to be published in

English, and felt much annoyed that his wishes on that point were overruled by the
Dean ; and more especially at some alterations and interpolations which the latter
made in the text. Indeed it seems to have been generally thought that the work

was injured by appearing first in Latin ; and with that feeling the Rev. J. Gutch,

M.A., published an edition of it in English, in 3 vols. 4to. 1786-94. Respecting

the original Aubrey wrote to Wood before its publication, as follows : " If you wish
Ito have records at Rome searched it shall be done for you ; for when was at Paris
I was acquainted with some of the . . . who will undertake it : but one of them this

day told me that he does not approve of the Universityes designe in printing it first
in Latin, for if it is first in English it will bring it into far more fame and sell the

better."*

   It is painful to turn again from the relation of these congenial and pleasing occu

pations, to Aubrey's pecuniary embarassments. Some remarkable letters addressed
to him by the Earl of Thanet shew that these still pressed heavily upon him, and at
the same time they afford a curious illustration of the customs of the age.

   On the 19th of April, 1675, the Earl acknowledges a letter from Aubrey, stating
that his friend and patron, Mr. Wyld, was disposed to purchase land in New York.
The Earl strongly dissuades him from doing so, and points out how much preferable

as an investment a similar purchase would be in the Bermudas ; where his lordship

himself had an estate.-f- He then goes on to say, " I am glad you have so good an

   * Original, Feb. 17, 1669, in the Ballard Collection of Letters, Bodl. Library, vol. xiv.  person  to go

  f The Earl had previously (30 Nov. 1674) intimated to Aubrey that he was in want of some

to Bermuda for him, to attend his land.
                   THE EARL OF THANET S LETTERS TO AUBREY.                                       53

opportunity to make your addresses to that excellent lady the younger Countess

Dowager of Pembroke ; who, if your stars be favourable, may, thro' the interest of

the Duchess of Portsmouth, procure y° some good employment, if not neglected by

a wonted trapishness incident in you. This freedom I take in mentioning that you
will I hope easily forgive, since I do it not by way of check, but by a friendly

advertisement to beware of it;" and he concludes with this singular sentence: --
" If you have the same occasions of a protection against your merciless creditors as

you had some while since, I may now serve y° in                        both with salvo honore etit,

conscientia, providing will be little ruled."*                             I
                         y°            Ia
The Earl of Thanet's next letter to Aubrey of remarkable import -- " Hothfield,
                              :                    y°

                                                     it

                                                           y°
                                                              is
May  16/5.3,       Aubrey -- With this will receive a protection according to your

desire, wcb when useless returne.it        send                 under this provisoe, that yow are my
               is
SoUicitor to looke after my business in London and for your Sallary that agreed
              J.                                                ;                          I is

on. My mother hath lent me Thanet house garden, where intend to fit up two or

three chambers for my use when come to London privately, and intend to stay not
                                       I

long there, one of w°h as my meniall servant you may make use of when fitted up,

and when     you shall have notice                              I  would have you in the future to

take more time in writing your letters, for your last was soe ill writ that had                  Ia

great deal of trouble to read some part of it. Thanet."-|" In short letter written
the day afterwards the Earl addresses Aubrey thus -- " Sir, am well aware the stile
                                                                   :   I

                                                                               a

of my letter of the 3rd. instant unfitting to person of your birth. The reason
                                       is          a
                                               is
made myself such a proud ill-bred fellow in        it              the better to disguise the business
                                                       is

you lately enjoined me to do for you." He then says that his future letters will be

equally cool and distant in their language, so that, they should ever be subjectedif
to examination, any person would believe " that the business, although very
unbefitting, of your belonging to me, no otherwise than real and he adds "    ;"           :     it
the first protection ever gave." This letter he signs " Your most affectionate and                   is

                   I

humble servant, Thanet."-J-
   Poor Aubrey's troubles appear to have reached their climax about two years

Original in  Collection              Letters to Aubrey, in the Ashmolean Museum, vol. ii.
Ibid.
t*
                            a
                                   of
54 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

after this: "July 31, 1677, 1 sold my bookes to Mr. Littlebery; scilicet, when my

Impostume in my head did break."* Perhaps to this unfortunate period of his life
may be ascribed a loan he obtained from Dr. Edward Davenant. " He was my singular

good friend," says Aubrey, " and to whom I have been more beholding then to any
one beside ; for I borrowed five hundred pounds of him for a yeare and a halfe, and

I could not fasten any interest on him."-f-

   In December, 1679, Thomas Hobbes died. The continuance of his friendship

with Aubrey until his death is proved by a letter which he wrote to him only four

months previous.^: Aubrey had been desired by Hobbes to write his life, for the

information of posterity, and he accordingly at once set about the task. James
Wheldon, the amanuensis and executor of the deceased, wrote to Aubrey narrating

the circumstances of his death and funeral, enclosing a copy of his Will, his epitaph
on himself, and a " catalogue of his bookes."§

   Aided by the information thus derived from Wheldon, Aubrey wrote his Life of
Mr. Thomas Hobbes, of Malmesburie, but instead of publishing it himself he appears
to have lent the manuscript to Dr. Richard Blackbourne, of Trinity College,

Cambridge, who in 1681 produced a Latin Life of Hobbes, || with which was
reprinted the Memoirs (in Latin, Prose and Verse,) previously published, and both
supposed to have been written by Hobbes himself. In a list of the friends and

associates of the deceased, Dr. Blackbourne thus mentions Aubrey : " Jo.

Albericus, vulgo Aubrey, e- Soc. Reg. Armig. Amicus ejus in primis, ex Vicinia
Malmsburiensi Oriundus, & sub communi Praeceptore Institutus, Vir Publico Bono

* Collection of Genitures, p. 175.
f Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 300.
                                                w[raitnenre'sxerdegtroetAtuhbarte"y'hs isMbSoo.kLoiffetheofCiHvoibl bWesa"r]   dated "
    X  Original in  the Ashmolean Museum,                                                                                               Chatsworth,
Aug.    18, 1679."   This letter expresses the                                                                                has come
                                                                                                                                        abroad." It
Iends as follows : " pray you present my humble thankes to Mr. Sam. Butler. The privilege of stationers
                                                                                    7, of
                                                              of all humane
                                                                                          I

                                                                                                 A

                                                                                                                                          is,
in my opinion,  a   very great hinderance to the advancement                 learning.                                        am, Sir, your very

humble servant, Th. Hobbes."

is     The originals of these letters are also annexed to Aubrey's MS. Life           Hobbes. The first (which
   §
    dated "Hardwick, January    the 16th, 1679-80")     together with Hobbes's Will,  has been                                printed   in  Letters
from the Bodleian, vol. ii.     632. The second        dated " Chatsworth, Sept.      1680."
                            p.                     is

||     Thomce Hobbes Angli Malmesburiensis Philosophi Vita, 8vo. 1681, pp. 243.                                               second edition was

published in 1682, 4to., pp. 67.
                                                                                                                                                                         55

magis quam suo Natus ; qui Princeps mihi scribendi Ansam praebuit, & Materiain
humaniter suppeditavit."* According to the custom of the times several verses,
in commendation of Hobbes, are prefixed to this memoir. They comprise some
lines (in English) by Cowley, and others (in Latin) by Dr. Ralph Bathurst, of Trinity
College, Oxford, and the following by Aubrey :

                                                               " In Tho. Hobbes.
                                                    Futilis exornet Barbatos pompa Magistros,

                                                 Et Schola Discipulos cogat inepta leves :
                                              Affulsit nova Lux tenebroso Hobbesius Orbi,

                                                        Quanta est Laus Hominem restituisse sibi ?

                                                                                 Jo. Awbrey, Ann. e Soc. Reg."f

   In 1680 Aubrey addressed his Lives of Eminent Men to Anthony a Wood, in a

letter which is printed with the Lives (vol. ii. p. 197). This, he expressly states,
was a work he never thought of undertaking had not the latter imposed it upon
him, evidently with a view to his Athena Oxonienses, which was then in pro
gress ; and the following unpublished note gives additional proof of the author's

object in collecting these curious biographical details: "My will and humble
desire is that these minutes, which I have hastily and scriblingly here set down,

be delivered carefully to my deare honored friend, Mr. Anthony a Wood, anti
quary of Oxford. Jo. Aubrey. Ascension day, 1680." % This manuscript was soon

afterwards mentioned in the following strange terms by Wood: "Mr. Aubrey, I

beseech y° as y° have been civill in giving this book to me at Oxon in Sep.

   * "John Aubrey of the Royal Society, Esqr ; one of his oldest Friends, born in the neighbourhood of
Malmesbury ; educated under the same master. A man born rather for the public good than his own, who

chiefly encouraged me to the undertaking this work, and kindly supplied me with materials." Translation in

Biographia Britannica.  f " On Thomas Hobbes.

                        Exterior gravity may Schools erect,

                        Where Idle Folks may empty Notions scan ;

                        But Hobbes new light did on the World reflect,

                           How great his Praise who Man made known to Man ?

Jo. Awbrey, Esq. of the lloyal Society." Translation in Biographia Britannica.

J Original on the first leaf of the manuscript of the Lives, part i.
56 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

I1681, so hope wn y° have done with it you'l returne every part of it againe to yor

serv1 Ant. Wood. 11 Nov 1681."*

Thus it appears that the work was absolutely transferred by Aubrey to Wood ;

but it seems to have been at different times in the possession of each of them, the

author continuing to make additions to it. He survived Wood, and it was

ultimately deposited with his other papers in the Ashmolean Museum.

In 1683 we find Aubrey using great exertions to induce either the University of

Oxford, or Trinity College, to purchase the mathematical library of his late friend Sir

Jonas Moore. There are letters to him on this subject from Dr. Wallis and Sir

Isaac Newton. The latter informs him that the college was unable to buy them on

account of the heavy charge it had incurred for the new buildings, but that he had

acquainted the Vice-Chancellor with the opportunity that offered, though he knew not

whether the university would purchase, " their chest being at present very low."-f-

   One of Aubrey's most curious and least-known manuscripts, bearing the date
" 168f ," is called An Idea of Education of Young Gentlemen, being an elaborate

plan for a more popular and useful system of education than that which was

adopted in his time, or even in the present day, carried out at the Universities.

It " had its conception," he says, as early as 1669 and, in forwarding the manu
                  it

                                    is,

                               I

                                                              is

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                            ;

                                                                     of
script to Mr. Anthony Henley, of the Grange, in Hampshire, he expresses a great

desire to have put in practice.^ To Anthony Wood likewise, speaking of his
manuscripts, he says, " That most value
                                                    my Idea                                                  Education of Young Gentle

men" and he evinces much anxiety as to its fate after his decease.
   Soon after its completion this " Idea" was perused by the Rev. Andrew Paschal, of
                                                                                                               §
                                                                                                                         a
Chedzoy, in Somersetshire, who, in letter to the author, expressed very high
                                 a

opinion of it.||

* Original in the manuscript of the Lives, part iii.                                                           inthe Ashmolean
                                                                                                                                  in
   Original, dated " Oxford, Decr 23, 1683," in Collection of Letters to Aubrey,
|| § J \                         i.
Museum, vol. ii.                       p.

                                               of

                                                                          a
                                                                                     is
                                                                                               a
          Letter annexed to the Original manuscript in the Ashmolean Museum.

          Original in the Ballard Collection Letters, Bodleian Library, vol. xiv.

          Aubrey's Surrey, vol.  xiv. The Original  in Collection of Letters to Aubrey                                                the

Ashmolean Museum, vol. ii.
                          ralph Sheldon's library.                                                                     57

Aubrey's name is mentioned in a letter of about this time with reference to the

library of Ralph Sheldon, Esq. of Bewley, Worcestershire, and of Weston, Warwick

shire, a great collector and liberal patron of antiquarian literature. Anthony a Wood

frequently visited that gentleman, and made a catalogue of his books and papers.

Sheldon was likewise a friend to Aubrey, who had access to his library for literary

purposes. He died in July, 1684, and by his Will bequeathed £40 to Wood,
requesting him to see " his Pedegrees, and all his MSS., and other papers, (except

such as were written with his owne hand-writing,) delivered into the Heralds'

Office."* At this time Sir William Dugdale was Garter King-at-Arms, and John

Dugdale, his son, was Windsor Herald. They entertained a natural desire to pro

cure for the Heralds' Office, under the above bequest, as many of Sheldon's books

as possible ; and Aubrey, who was then living in London, participated in the desire.

On the 22nd of July he wrote to Elias Ashmole thus : " I presume Ant. Wood will

do his best with Mr. Sheldon's heir to get his bookes for the Heralds' Office."
                                                               :
                                                                                                                  -f-
   John Dugdale however had occasion, on the 16th of December following, to address
his father (who was absent in Warwickshire) as follows " Mr. Aubray this day told me

(wth trouble of mind) that Mr Parker, coming to the Executor of Mr Sheldon, when

the Books were all in hampers, and being told w' they were, desired to see the Cata

logue whereupon he caused all the Books to be taken out, and advised the
§% f
           ;Executor to detaine all such Manuscripts as did not relate to Herauldrie wch he
                  p.                                                  I

                                                                             J:
did accordingly; and how to get them will be hard to contrive, doubt." After

this some angry letters passed between Wood and Sir William Dugdale, on the

subject of this supposed detention of part of the books and papers, the latter sus
                                  a
                                     a                                and Wood in one of his letters

                                                   it

                                                                   ;
pecting that Wood was in some degree party to
assumed that Sir William had been " misinformed by some envious Coxcombe."
                                                                      of
* OriginalinthePrerogativeOffice,Doctors'Commons.
                                                                                             is

                                                                                                §
                                                   (Sec Hamper's LifeofSir W.Dugdale,p.l38,434.)

Copy indorsed by Aubrey on a letter from the Rev. Andrew Paschal. Collection Letter* to Aubrey,

ut supra, vol. ii.

Hamper's Life of Sir W. Dugdale,  442.
                                  it p.
Ibid.
                                                                 of
                      455. One of the most curious and valuable of the books said to have been detained  now in

the Bodleian Library. It described in the catalogue of MSS. relating to England as, " An ancient andis

very fair Leiger Book of Glasstenbury Abbey, usually called Secretum Abbatis, being alwaies in his own

custody." Aubrey, who frequently quotes in his North Division         Wiltshire, calls Secretum Domini.
                                                                      it
                                                                                     1
58 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

   Sir James Long, of Dray cot, Baronet, in a letter to Aubrey* about this time,
promised to send him " some cloth for a winter suit," and " four cheeses" made on
his own land, which he hoped would prove of good quality. It has been asserted that

Aubrey was dependent on the family of Sir James Long, but it must be observed

that no such inference should be drawn from this letter, for both the cloth

and the cheese were products for which North Wiltshire was even then famous,

and therefore such articles were peculiarly appropriate as friendly presents,

without necessarily implying poverty on the part of the recipient.

   Aubrey witnessed the coronation procession of James II. in 1685, an event which

must have called up reminiscences of his interview with the new sovereign, twenty
years before, at Avebury. His only record of the ceremony, however, refers to an

occurrence, afterwards looked upon as ominous, and as such mentioned in his
Miscellanies :--" The canopy (of cloth of gold), carried over the king's head by the

Wardens of the Cinque Ports was torn by a puff of wind, as he came to West

minster Hall : it hung down very lamentably ; I saw it."

   At this time Aubrey made numerous additions to his work upon the Natural

History of Wiltshire. He wrote a title-page and preface to                    both of which bear
is

             It

                        is

                                     ;

                                it
                                                                :
                                                              6,
                                                             ;"
                                                                                                                         :
                                                                                       it,

                                                                                                         it
the date " London, Gresham Coll. June  1685  and he now made the fair copy,

which preserved in the library of the Royal Society the original manuscript

being at Oxford.  not improbable that he expected and hoped the Royal Society

would print the work and was perhaps with this view that he inscribed to

the Earl of Pembroke, President of the society. Long previously (as he wrote to

Wood) their Secretary, hearing of the manuscript, thought fit that the society should
be made acquainted with and, as Aubrey further states, the inspection of " gave
%f
                         a
                              2)
                                 it
                                        it,
                                                                                                                       i.
                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                  -J"
                                                                                                                        it
them two or three dayes entertainment, wcb they were pleased to like."

   In 1686 (Feb. he says that "William Penn, Lord Proprietor of Pennsylvania,

did give him grant under his seale of 600 acres in Pennsylvania without his

seeking or dreaming of ,"% and he also had a gift of thousand acres of land in

* Original in Collection of Letter* to Aubrey, ut supra, vol.
   Original, dated " Twelfe day, 1675," in the Ballard Collection, ut supra.
   Faber Fortunce, in the Ashmolean Museum.
                       GRIEF AT HIS MOTHER S DEATH.                                                             59

the island of Tobago, from Captain Poyntz ;* but these lands were doubtless una
vailable for useful purposes. At an earlier period of his life, when in greater

pecuniary difficulties, he seems to have contemplated emigration,
                                                                                  I
The following letter to Wood interesting. "London. May 11, 1686. Deare                   -f-
                            a
                                   is
Friend In January last after very great conflict of affliction rowsed up my spts.
   ;

        a
and writt     Ire to you, and immediately fell to worke with my Naturall History of
Wilts, wcUye Ihad just donne April 21, (i.) rough hewn, and finished the last chapter,
when at       evening heard of sad news of Decease of my deare ever hond
                    I       ye                                       a ye         I
                                                                                               &&
                                                                                                            is
mother who died at Chalke, but my bro: has buried her with my father in North
   :

Wilts (Kington St. Mich:). My head has been fountain of teares, this the

first Ire (except of businesse) that have writt since my Griefe.                              am now involved
a

         :

         I
                                    :

                    ye I
                                                        :
                                              &
                                  I

                                   ;I
in great deale of trouble   Chalke must be sold but hope to make some reser
                                                                     :

                                                                          I

vation for myselfe and hope before dye to be able to make an honorable present

to you for am for Spaniards way sc. not to make my soule my Executor.
                                                                           &:

                                                                                          :

                                                                                        is
                                                                                                    is

                                                                                              aI
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                          I
shall shortly goe to Chalke to see how matters goe there and as soon as can pick

up little money intend to see you at Oxon, and thinke the time very long till am
   a
                                                             is
wth you. Sir W. Dugdale's Paules to be reprinted at Oxon there                                mistake in

Dr A's. Insc. sc. Atavus for Proavus. Mr. Ashmole wife angry wth him for

making such scandalous Will.                                     shall bring severall mdms wth me to insert.
                &a          yI*
God blesse you comfort me,      I
                                  may but live to finish                          publish my papers.
                                                                                         " Tuissimus, A.

                                                                                     had much discourse at
" my true love to Kit Wase, of who E. of Pembroke                ye        I& &
                                                                                                  J.

dinner, with much respect. "^ Let me desire you to write to me by the next

post, to let me know how you doe yor letter will be Cordial to me therefore
                           is                                        a                        J
                                                                                                        :
                                   I:                                       pI a
pray fail not. Fab. Philips yoM.                                 am sorry for the losse of our facetious friend

Parson Hodges.  I   must make hast wth my papers, for am now 60."

\  * Faber Fortunes, in the Ashmolean Museum.                                     a
      " 1676. From Sir W. Petty. 500 lib. gives in Jamaica 100 lib. ami. Take Chymist with me, for
                                                                                              is I
Brandy, Sugar, &c. and goe half with him." Ibid. And, in letter to Wood, dated 1674, " have been very
busy lately (and chiefly with my Lord Vaughan) newly made governor of Jamaica, who like to spirit me   a

along with him thither, and has promised me to looke out some place suitable to the qualitie of gentleman.
The Earl of Thanet would have me goe to his Estate in the Bermudas." Original in the Ballard Collection,

ut supra.
       Original in the Ballard Collection, ut supra.
X
                                     60

                                     ©fjap. IF.

Aubrey's bequest of his Wiltshire papers preparatory to visiting the west of englani
      gives his manuscripts to the ashmolean museum-- correspondence with dr. garden
     lends his works to his friends their opinions quarrel with anthony a wood

     death of the latter aubrey publishes his "miscellanies" his age and infirmities
     death and burial summary of his personal character list of portraits of john

       AUBREY.

  I have now to notice a curious paper, which not only shows the high value

Aubrey set upon his Wiltshire Collections, but also, in conjunction with other
passages in his writings, that he entertained a constant fear of sudden death while
travelling. This is a document in the shape of a Will, but it has reference only

to his Wiltshire papers :

                          WILL.

"Whe'as I John Aubrey R.S.S. doe intend shortly to take a journey into the

West : and reflecting on ye Fate that Manuscripts use to have after the death of the

author, I have thought good to signify my Last Will (as to this Naturall History of

Wilts) that my Will and desire is, that in case I shall depart this life before my

returne to London again, to finish, if it pleaseth God, this Discourse ; I say, and de

clare, that my Will then  is,
                                 &

                                I

                                                       is,
                          that bequeath these papers of Naturall History of
                                                            ye
                                                                       &
Wilts to my worthy friend Mr Robert Hooke of Gresham Colledge R.S.S., and I

doe also humbly desire him, my Will                         that the noble Buildings and Prospects

should be engraven by my worthy friend Mr. David Loggan, who hath drawn my&
Picture already in order to it. Witnesse hereunto my hand seale the eighteenth

day of August Ano Domini One thousand six hundred eighty and six.

                                                                   "Jo: Aubrey.

                                                                                                   " Signed
       GIVES HIS PAPERS TO THE ASHMOLEAN MUSEUM.                          61

" Signed and Sealed in the presence
                             " Mchn.
of us                                 there are deposited in the hands of my

" Fransis Lodwik             honoured friend Elias Ashmole, Esq. two Manu-
   Jo. Godfrey, sen.         scripts of my Writing, viz : Templa Druidum &

   Sam11. Meverell           Chronologia Antiquaria : being both about 3 quires
                             of paper : which doe belong to this Historie & to be

       Henry Spencer.        printed with it. My Chronologia Architectonica* is

* But two or three sheetes.  at the beginning of the first part of my Antiquities
                             of Wilts; wcb are deposited in the hands of my

                             worthy friend Mr Anthony a Wood of Merton Col
                             lege in Oxford: & they will deliver the afor-sayd

                             Manuscripts to ye sayd Mr Robert Hooke.""!"

   In 1687 and 1688 Aubrey wrote his Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaism, now in
the British Museum,J dedicating it to Edmund Wyld, Esq. in the former year. It
consists of extracts from the Greek and Roman writers, with illustrations tending to
prove that most of the old provincial customs and observances in England were
derived from those of the ancients.

    About this time Aubrey came to the determination of depositing his manu
scripts in the museum at Oxford. That building had been erected by the University,
from Sir Christopher Wren's designs, in 1682; and in the next year the collection
of curiosities, previously belonging to the Tradescants of Lambeth, was placed in it
by Elias Ashmole, to whom John Tradescant, the son, had given them. The
museum was in fact built upon the understanding that the Ashmole collection
would be deposited there on its completion, and it has ever since borne the name of
The Ashmolean Museum. Considering Aubrey's anxiety for the preservation of his
literary papers, it is evident that he would need very little persuasion by Ashmole to
avail himself of this eligible mode of effecting his object. That his friend felt equally
anxious they should accompany his collection is shown by the following letter, ad

  f From the Original MS. in my possession. It appears to have been a leaf of the Natural Hut. of Wilts.

   { Lansdowne MS. No. 231, (British Museum).
62 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

dressed to Anthony a Wood: --" London, 22 Dec. 1688. Mr. Wood, Last Tuesday I went

to see Mr. Ashmole, whom I found ill. He lately received a letter from Dr Plot,*

Iabout the things that sent to Oxford ; and says that he desired you to send to the

                                        and would not let him see the Catalogue that sent. Mr
Museum, but you deniedy°

                                 I it,

                                                                    &
                                                                       is

                                                                                                                                              :

                                                                                                        ;I

                                                                                                                                 &
Ashmole desired to speake with me about it,                                most outrageously angry charg'd

me to write to as soon as could, to put the box in the Museum for he looks upon

you as P.,-f- and saith so does the whole Universitie                                                    Mr. Ashmole says
       a
that now there such care good method taken, that the Books in the Museuma
                      is                &
                                              &
                                                      &
are more safe than those in the Library or Archives and he says he expects to
                                                                             ye
heare of your being plunder'd, papers burnt, as at the Spanish Ambassador's, at  ;

Wild house, where were burnt MSS. antiquities invaluable, such as are not left in   I

y° ye  world                            Since therefore              ye it   so order'd, do desire                                               appoint
                                                                         is                                  I&
                                                                                                                    &
       to send my box forthwith (y° may keep key), for feare that all my MSS. &c.

should be rifled by mobile, (which God forbid, but Mr E. Ashmoleye                                           doe much

feare it,) besides my gift will make better shew in Museum than when dispersed
                                        I
in two places                             have several other MSS. of my own and Mr Mercator's.
                                                 is
                                                       a

                                                                  ;
That of mine that most value my Idea of Education of Young Gentlemen, which
                      ye
& is  in box as big as that sent to you with choice Grairiaticall bookes both ancient
                        it I
      modern for Informations to peruse and study. If should die here they will
                                                                                          :I
be lost or seized upon by Mr Kent's son                              :+    send them to the Museum the tutorsye if

                                                                      iIf

would burn it, for crosses their interest exceedingly                                              in your hands when                            I y°

die your nephew will stop guns with them.                                  intended E. of Abingdon, but he
                                        I
                                           I

                                                             ye

                                                           aI
has now other fish to fry.                think                      E. of Pembroke would do best, but had

money to pay an amanuensis,               would leave                        copy in the hands of each of those
two peers.                                                                          " Tuissimus, Aubrey.''§
                                                                                                         J.

      * The doctor was the first keeper of the Museum.

       Meaning        Papist. This letter was written at the time of the Revolution, a circumstance which
ff              Ia
explains this and other allusions in it.
                    a
                         :

                         I
                                    of
       A subsequent letter, "16 January, 1689-90,"                   gives us another     proof that Aubrey's pecuniary affairs
                      " have been extremely busy,                             much feare
were still unsettled                                                                                     shall be engaged in
                                                                     I&
                                                                         I

                                                                                           i. i.

                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                          the next term

more trouble.   waived a Chancery suite two terms when was at Oxford, which was the reason                                                       stayed

there so long." Collection of Letters to Aubrey, ut supra, vol.

§      Original in Collection Letters to Aubrey, ut supra, vol.
CORRESPONDENCE WITH DR. GARDEN.  63

        Very soon after this was written the majority of Aubrey's gifts to the Museum

    were probably placed there, and a rough catalogue made of them ; for the following
    contemporary entry appears in a manuscript Register of the Benefactors to the
    Museum: "M.D. 1689. Johannes Aubrey, de Easton Piers apud Wiltonienses, Arm.
    e Soc. Reg. Socius, olim Alumnus, praeter Libellos, tum MSS. tum impressos, plus

     minus Octaginta, diversas illustrium virorum Effigies, Numismata Romana, Eorumq^

     matrices lateritias, Operis item Musivi sive Tesselati specimen."

      In 1690 Aubrey again wrote to Wood: "Upon the receipt of yours I will by

    the next waggon send down a box full of manuscripts & printed books. The noble

   E. of Pembroke gave me not long since as many good books as cost him I believe
   I5li. Thus hoping to hear from y° rest in hast, Yours, J. Aubrey. In my next I
   shall send you three or four obits. I wish heartily my papers were in your hands,

    for death seems to threaten.-- God blesse you & me in this in-&-out-world."*
       In the same year (the Athena and Fasti Oxonienses being then on the eve of pub

    lication,) Aubrey made some further collections in biography, as intimated by a few

   sheets of manuscript with that date, entitled, An Apparatus for the Lives of our

    English Mathematical Writers. ^
       At the beginning of 1692 he commenced a correspondence with Dr. James

.> Garden, Professor of Divinity in King's College, Aberdeen, upon the subject of

    Celtic monuments, and Scottish customs and traditions. The learned doctor furnished

    Aubrey with much valuable information respecting the stone circles of North

    Britain, the Orkney islands, &c., which they both concurred in regarding as sacred
   temples of the Druids. This correspondence continued about three years, and, besides

    the subjects mentioned, Dr. Garden's letters comprise disquisitions on the less

   important themes of " Second-sight," " Transportation by an invisible power," and

   other superstitions of the age. Aubrey applied this information to his Remaines of

    Gentilisme, and Monumenta Britannica ; and his correspondent's letters (most of
   which are still preserved in the Ashmolean Museum), are referred to with commen
   dation by Bishop Gibson, in his edition of Camden's Britannia, as well as, in

      * Original, dated " 10 May, 1690," in the Ballard Collection, ut supra.
      t Original in the Ashmolean Museum.
64 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

later times, by Gough and other writers. Two of them are printed in Aubrey'

Miscellanies, (though without the name of their author), and one is also published

in the first volume of Archaologia, p. 312.

At the persuasion of Anthony a Wood Aubrey revised and transcribed his

Perambulation, or History of Surrey, making some additions to it with reference to
South wark ; and the dates "St. Thomas-day, 1691," and "May 1, 1692,"* fix the

time when he did so. Still, though always contemplating
                                                               it                        reluctance to print
                                                                      of
anything which could be regarded as incomplete or imperfect seems to have      it,

restrained him from publishing either the Surrey or the Wiltshire collections, or any a

of his other works, some of which were by this time very minute and copious. He

however lent them to his friends for perusal and correction. Thus, on the 5th of
                                                                                         :
September, 1691, he forwarded his Natural History                   Wilts to John Ray, the    1

botanist and zoologist, who returned on the 27th October following, and who, in
                                    it
acknowledging its receipt, as well as in sending back to Aubrey, spoke in theit

most favourable terms of the work, suggesting some trifling improvements, and

strongly urging him to " speed      to the Presse."-f- Aubrey visited Ray, at Black

Notley, in the summer of 1692, and perhaps then left with him another manuscript,
respecting which the latter wrote to him soon afterwards as follows " Your

Adversaria Physica have read over once, but the variety and curiosity of the matter
                  is I
                                 I
and observations             such that cannot satisfy myself with single reading."
                                                                              Ia                 J

To " his ever honoured Friend, John Evelyn," Aubrey, at this time, sent his favorite

Idea Education, saying, " In case should happen to die before call for this Idea,
I                 :

         of                is it

                                  I
desire you then to leave with Dr Hooke at Gresham College, to be putt into my

Chest marked Idea wch full of Books for this Designe." Thus we see that he
                                                                  it
                                                                           §
was still unwilling to send this work to Oxford, where has nevertheless been safely

* See Address to the Reader, and commencement of the printed work.

\1  Original Letters in the Ashmolean Museum. They are printed entire in Aubrey's Lives     of  Eminent

Men, vol. ii. 158, and Aubrey's Surrey, vol. v. p. 408.p.

    Letter, printed in Lives of     Eminent Men, vol. ii.  p.  162. Original (24 August, 1692,) in the
                                of
Ashmolean Museum. Other letters from Ray to Aubrey in the same collection show that the former had

also read the Perambulation   Surrey, and the Idea of Education.
    Letter appended to the original MS. in the Ashmolean Museum (dated " May 10th, 1692").
§
TANNER S OPINION OF AUBREY, AND OF BOOKS.  65

kept ever since his death. The new keeper of the Ashmolean Museum, Edward

Llhwyd, informed Aubrey (March 1692-3) that he had made a catalogue of his
books in that museum, and was engaged in making another of his manuscripts.

He further says, " I have got all your pamphlets in ye museum bound, and in case

Iyou are disposed to dedicate your Collection of Letters to y* museum, will take care

to have them bound out of hand : unlesse y° have been at that charge already

yourselfe."* Perhaps we are indebted to Llhwyd's influence with Aubrey for the

preservation of the interesting Collection of Letters to him, so often quoted. The
series, now in the Ashmolean Museum, comprises nearly four hundred letters,
alphabetically arranged, and bound in two volumes.

    The important light in which Aubrey viewed his papers at this period of his life

is further illustrated by his correspondence with the celebrated Dr. Thomas Tanner,

(afterwards bishop of St. Asaph). In July 1692, and December 1693, Dr. Tanner
had in his possession, besides others of Aubrey's papers, his manuscript work on the

Antiquities of North Wiltshire, of which, as well as of the Monumenta Britannica,

and Remaines of Gentilisme, he appears to have thought very favourably, and to

have been anxious for their publication or preservation. Aubrey also sent him, at

his urgent request, the Natural History of Wiltshire, in February 1694. These cir
cumstances are detailed in three interesting epistles, which are printed in Letters

from the Bodleian, (vol. ii. p. 164,) and in another, of earlier date, prefixed by

Aubrey to his Monumenta Britannica. In the latter Tanner thus writes : " I shall

go toward Lavington on Saturday next. My principal business is to drive on our

common design, viz. the Antiquities of Wilts, which I hope will find encouragement.
If it does not I will never undertake anything more for the public. My S* Cuth-
berfs Life hath suffered the fate of a great many better books. I am heartily sorry

your Monumenta meets with no better encouragement in this age, but I like it never
the worse for that.-j- It hath been the ill fortune of the best books that they have

   * Original, in a Collection of Letters to Aubrey in the Ashmolean Museum, vol. i.
  t Aubrey had made some efforts for the publication of this work without success. Writing to Wood in
I1687 he said : " As soon as the Terme ends will perform my Promise to Sr W. Dugdale, viz. to make fitt
for the Presse my Templa Druidum." This was the first chapter of the Monumenta Britannica. Wood

                                                                                                                     K
66 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

*x not borne the charges of their own impression. It is well known that no bookseller

would give Sir Henry Spelman five pounds in books for his incomparable Glossary,

and you know that Sr Walter Raleigh burnt the latter part of his admirable History
Xof the World, because the former had undone the printer. The
                                                                              Scriptores and

the Monasticon, volumes now worth old gold, had never been printed had not the

former been carried on by a public fund, the other by the sole charges of the Editor.

I hope to five to see the Monumenta Britannica in as good vogue as the best of them."*
  IIn another of these letters is the following passage : " was heartily sorry to hear

of your affliction by that tormenting disease the gout ; but was more troubled at

that you told me at the bottom of your letter, viz. that you were so far stricken in

Iyears.  have seen, heard and read of the notorious misfortunes that usually attend

posthumous papers, so that I hope you will make haste, and yourself communicate

the greatest and best part of your labourious collections to the world. Your

entire originalls shall be deposited hereafter in the Museum according to your

desire, that posterity may see how just we have been to the memory of your pains."

   In the month of August, 1692, Aubrey thus wrote to Anthony a Wood : "Acci

dentally I spoke with Mr Gadbury, who is extremely incenst against you. He tells
me what you have wrote, and I am sorry for for he was civil to you, and was an
                                                           it ;"
ingeniose loyall person. He sayes that you have printed lyes concerning him, andit it,

he wonders you should meddle with him, having never been of the University."                                            -f-

The complaint by Gadbury, here mentioned, probably applied to brief sketch of
                                                                              a
                                                                                         if
his life, incidentally given by Wood in the Athena Oxonienses, in which he states

urged him to print the Templa Druidum, " by itselfe rather than in another book, for                                    in another

ye author of               book will carry away ye credit  and Tanner, with reference to his design of printing
:
                   is                                                       would be " more to his interest, and quite as

                       y*
the first part of the Monumenta only, advised him that
honorable" for him, " to abridge
                                  it  all, and print in about 40 sheets which would make very fair 8TM or
                                                                              ;
                                                                                     is

                                                                                                 by
                                                                                                                     a
4*° " but unfortunately these recommendations were never acted upon. Besides  Wood and Tanner, the

Monumenta highly spoken of, in letters to the author, from Gibson, Bathurst, Llhwyd, Charlet and others.
   * This lamentable account of the state of authorship and publication too much paralleled in our own

times, and in the history of the " Wiltshire Topographical Society." Bishop Tanner and Aubrey earnestly

sought for patronage and support to produce topographical elucidations of their native county. Mr. P.

Wyndham, Sir Richard C. Hoare, and the author of the present volume, have laboured hard and zealously

in the same cause, and with scarcely better success.

       Original, 20th August, 1692, in the Ballard Collection, ut supra.
f
                 HIS MANUSCRIPTS MUTILATED BY WOOD.                                                                                                                               67

that the former, after having been apprenticed to a tailor at Oxford, improved

" his natural genius for the making of almanacs," under William Lolly, and " set up

the trade of almanac-making and fortune-telling for himself ; in which he became
eminent."* This appears to have been true; and it was certainly much less
offensive than the terms in which Lilly speaks of " that monster of ingratitude, my
quondam taylor, John Gadbury ."-j- In replying to the above letter Wood expresses

much surprise that Gadbury should have felt annoyed at his remarks ; and says,

" Pray recommend me to him, and desire him, y* if I speake any things y* are

untrue, he may rectifie them ; put them into yr hands, and to be sent to me." %
   Thus far ample proof has been adduced of the continuance of a cordial friendship

between Wood and Aubrey ; but, almost simultaneously with the letter last quoted,

Aubrey wrote upon the manuscript of the second part of his Lives of Eminent

Men as follows :

                           "INGRATITUDE.

In this part the Second Mr. Wood has gelded from p. 1. to 44, and other pages

too are wanting wherein are contain'd Trueths, but such as I entrusted nobody with

the sight of but himself, whom I thought I might have entrusted wth my life. There

Iare several papers that may cut my throate.             find too late, memento diffidere was

% f * It                                                                                                                                                                    N.B.

                         by of

                        I

                                                       by

                               I

                                              it

                                                                                                     p.
                                                                                             a

                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                             it,

                                                                                                                                                                         :
                                                                                                                                                   a qd
a saying worthy of the sages. He hath also embezill'd the Index of
                                                                             " Novemb. 29, 1692."
was stitch'd up when sent to him."

   In letters from Tanner to Aubrey, already mentioned, the former alludes to the
detention of the latter's papers by Anthony Wood. Requesting the loan of one
of Aubrey's works, he says, " shall scorn to be like Ant. Wood, viz. make use of

your papers and acquaintance, and at last not afford you good word and again,

Wood's Athena Oxonienses,  Bliss, vol. iv. col. 9.

Lilly's History  his Life and Times, ed. 1774,      52.
Copy, indorsed
                 Wood on the letter from Aubrey above quoted, and headed " Sent in                                                                                          letter to Mr.

Aubrey, to be com'unicated to Mr. Gadbury, in the latter end of Nov. 1692."
68 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

I" You need not fear my playing the plagiary with your MSS., tho' must excuse

your jealousy of such a thing, Antony Wood having dealt so ungenteely by you."*
The letters containing these passages were respectively written in May and De
cember, 1693. Aubrey himself accused Wood of this offence in the following
remarkable letter, dated nearly two years after the circumstance referred to had
occurred. As they do not appear to have corresponded during the whole of that
interval, it may have been a sort of reconciliatory letter. At all events the manner
in which Aubrey mentions the subject is highly creditable to his feelings :

" Mr. Wood,                                                        " Borstall, Sept. 2, 1694."

" I thought I should have heard from you ere this time. I have been ill ever since

I came from Oxford, till within these five days, of a surfeit of peaches, &c. ; so that

I was faine to send to Kit White for a good Lusty Vomit. I c^d not eat a bitt of

flesh for six days, but abstinence hath pretty well settled me again. Your unkindness

and choleric humour was a great addition to my ilnes. You know I always loved
Iyou, and never thought took paines enough to serve you ; and I was told by

severall at Oxford, and so the last yeare, that you can never afford me a good word.

I desired you to give to the Museum my draught of Osney, which cost me xxs.
when I was of Trin. Coll : 'twas donne by one Hesketh, a Hedge-Priest, who painted
under Mr Dobson ;-f also I desired you to give the entertainment to the Queen at

Bushells' Rocks ; your Nephews and Neices will not value them. You have cutt

out a matter of 40 pages out of one of my volumes, as also the index [was ever any

body so unkind ?] and I remember you told me coming from Heddington, that there
were some things in it that would cutt my throat. I thought you so deare a friend
that I might have entrusted my life in your hands ; and now your unkindness doth

almost break my heart. If you will returne these papers to me & the other things

   * Originals, in the Collection of Letters to Aubrey, ut supra.  (These are printed in Letters from the
Bodleian, vol. ii. p. 164 -- 169. )
t See ante, pp. 14, 51, as to this drawing of Osney Abbey. " Mr. Dobson" was the well known portrait
painter, patronized by Vandyck and Charles I. He was appointed serjeant-painter to the king, and died in

1646. Neither the drawings of Osney, nor the other subject mentioned in this letter, are now to be found in

the Ashmolean Museum.

                                                                   X
                  Aubrey's remonstrance with wood :--death of the latter. 69

                  Iy° may then have the Lives : tooke Dr Gale's Life from his owne [mouth]
                  Ierling's under his own hand. should be glad
                                                                                  , you shall be

heartily welcome, and I will shew  booke of this house, in parchment

done in H. 6. and      this Estate granted to him by Edw. Confessor.* I

want Mr Lilly's Epitaph. I would have you come the next week, for in a fort

night hence Sr J. A. goes into Glamorganshire, & will have me with him. I have

not been very fitt for riding, but I intend to spend 2 or 3 dayes                              before

Sir Jo. goes away. You cannot imagine how much your unkindness vext and dis

composed me. So God bless you.                                  Tuissimus, J. A."

I" would have you come hither as early as you can, because of perusing the MS.

and seeing the gardens, for the afternoon will be taken up with good-fellowship."
                                   ;
There no evidence amongst the writings of Wood or Aubrey to show that the
        %                                   it
former ever made the latter any apology or explanation. He died on the 28this
November, 1695, in his 63rd, when Aubrey was in his 70th, year. How stronglyIt a is
                                                                             i.
do the letter and the sentiments above quoted contrast with the splenetic andis     -f-

invidious language used by the author of Athena Oxonienses, who calls his traduced
friend " mere pretender to antiquities," and " little better than crazed."

About two years before Wood's death proceedings were taken against him for a

libel on the Earl of Clarendon, for which he was fined and degraded, and the

second volume of his Athena Oxonienses, containing the alleged libel, was publicly

burnt.                 stated by Hearne that the offensive passages in that work were

inserted by Wood from Aubrey's notes,^ whence, according to Dr. Bliss, the former

was punished for writings of which he was not the author and                             possible that

Wood entertained some such feeling when he stated, in the article so often men
tioned, that Aubrey, " being exceedingly credulous, would stuff his many letters

See notice of the ancient chartulary here referred to in the note to page 23, ante. Wood had visited
§X\ *
Borstall and examined that curious manuscript in 1668. (See his Auto-biography.)aa
      Original, in the Ballard Collection, uf supra.

For full account of these proceedings see Bliss's edition of Wood's Athence Oxonienses,  vol.
MS. Collections for 1710 (quoted by Bliss, ut supra).
70 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

sent to A. W. with folliries, and misinformations, which sometimes would guid him

into the paths of errour." Still, it must be observed that the passages for which

Wood suffered were, like many other so-called libels, offensive only from their per

tinence and truth ; for Aubrey's statements, on which they are said to have been

founded, were evidently based upon good authority.* We are therefore compelled

to regard the testimony of Wood, with reference to Aubrey, as being quite at
variance with facts, as were also his perverted notices of the characters of Locke,

Ashmole, Bathurst, Wallis, and others.-f- The circumstances here adverted to, taken
in connexion with the former long and friendly correspondence of the two

biographers, prove that the account which Wood gave of Aubrey could only have

been written during the last three years of the former's life.

   Few personal notices of Aubrey are to be found after those last referred to. On

the 20th of March, 1692-3, " about 1 1 at night, [he was] robbed and had 5 wounds

in his head," % on which Dr. Garden condoled with him in his next letter.                   On the
5th of January following he had " an apoplectick fitt, circiter 4 h. P.M."§

   In his Miscellanies \\ he says, "On the day of S' John the Baptist, 1694, 1 acciden
tally was walking in the pasture behind Montague house, ^[ it was 12 o'clock. I saw

there about two or three and twenty young women, most of them well habited, on

their knees very busy, as if they had been weeding. I could not presently learn

what the matter was ; at last a young man told me, that they were looking for a

coal under the root of a plantain, to put under their head that night, and they

   * Memoir of Judge Jenkins, in Aubrey's MS. Lives of Eminent Men, in the Ashmolean Museum. (This

memoir, so important in its bearing on the proceedings against Wood, was nevertheless omitted by the editors

of Letters from the Bodleian. It however, quoted by Bliss in his edition of Wood's Atherue Oxonienses,
                                  of
vol. clxix.)                          of is,
        See D'Israeli's Quarrels
f                                  Authors, vol.                     275, Biographia Britannica, article Ashmole, and,
    i.                                        a
          p.                                     ||

more especially, Malone's Account           Aubrey, in BoswelPs Shakespeare, vol. ii. 695.in
                                                                      p.
       Collection Genitures, ut supra.                I ii.
X             of                                                 p.            of

§      Ibid.     it                               Chapter on Magick.

by     Montague House, now the British Museum, was at that time on the northern verge London, bounded
   ^f
     fields. So was in 1790, when was boy.                         often walked from Sadler's Wells, through/?e&&, between
                                   I

the Foundling Hospital on the north, and Bedford House and Montague House on the south, to Tottenham
Court Road. Dr. Stukeley, in his MS. diary, my possession, describes the rural character of Queen-square,

and its vicinity, when he resided there in 1749.
HIS WORKS QUOTED IN THE " BRITANNIA."                                71

should dream who would be their husbands. It was to be sought for that day

and hour."
   In 1695 Gibson's first edition of Camden's Britannia was published, in the

preface to which he records his obligations to many literary men of the time, but
omits the name of Aubrey. In his additions to Camden's remarks on Wiltshire he,
however, quotes the account of Avebury from the Monumenta Britannica, respect
ing which place nothing had till then been published ; and, moreover, in speaking
of the different opinions concerning the origin and purposes of Stonehenge, the

learned editor notices a theory " that it was a temple of the Druids long before
the coming in of the Romans ; which," he adds, " Mr. John Aubrey, Fellow of the

Royal Society, endeavours to prove in his Manuscript Treatise, entitled Monumenta
Britannica"

    In many other parts of the same edition of the Britannia, there are marginal
references to " Mr John Aubrey's Manuscript Treatise, entitled Monumenta

Britannica," to " Aubr. MS. Wilt.," and to " Letters from the learned and judicious

 Dr James Garden, Professor of Divinity at Aberdeen, to an ingenious gentleman
 of the Royal Society, Joh. Aubery of Easton-Pierce in Wiltshire, Esqr." Some
 of these passages may have been written by Tanner, who, as he states in the
 letters already referred to, assisted Gibson in his task, and who, in fact, bor
 rowed the Natural History of Wilts to aid him therein. But, from his know
 ledge of the works referred to, Gibson was equally competent to write them, and
 there is reason to believe that, when his new edition of the " Britannia" appeared,
 Aubrey's Monumenta Britannica was either in his possession or in that of Churchill
 his publisher. In 1719 Mr. Churchill retained that manuscript,* and it continued
 in his family at least a century afterwards.

    In 1696 Aubrey's Miscellanies^ was published by Edward Castle, and dedi
 cated by the Author " to the Right Honorable James Earl of Abingdon, Lord
 Chief Justice in Eyre of all His Majesty's Forests and Chaces on this side Trent,"

* Rawlinaon's Account of Aubrey, prefixed to the History of Surrey.

f See page 2, ante-
72 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

as follows : " My Lord, When I enjoyed the contentment of solitude in your pleasant

Iwalks and gardens at Lavington* the last summer,             reviewed several scattered

papers which had lain by me for several years ; and then presumed to think, that if

Ithey were put together they might be somewhat entertaining : therefore digested

Ithem there in this order, in which now present them to your Lordship . . .
... It was my intention to have finished my Description of Wiltshire
                                                                                  is -j-        (half

finished already) and to have dedicated                      to your Lordship but my age now
                                         ;I                   I
too far spent for such undertakings                                     :
                                               it
                                                             have therefore devolved that task on my

countryman, Mr. Thomas Tanner, who hath youth to go through with it, and                          a

genius proper for such an undertaking.^: Wherefore, humbly beseech your

Lordship to accept of this small offering, as a grateful memorial of the profound

respect which have for you, who have for many years taken me into your favour
                       I

and protection. My Lord, May the blessed angels be your careful guardians                         :

such are the prayers of your Lordship's most obliged and humble servant,

                                                                               "John Aubrey."

   Our Antiquary made " many very considerable alterations, corrections, and addi

tions" to this volume, apparently for the publication of second edition. The copya
containing these notes belonged to Mr. Churchill, the bookseller already mentioned,
                                                                 :
and with other copies was sold by auction, at the Queen's Head Tavern, Paternoster

Row, on Tuesday the 26th of July, 1720. The following letter from Aubrey to
Churchill was written on the first blank leaf of the volume " Mr. Churchill. There
                                                                                  I

                                                                                             is
a     very pretty remark in the Athenian Mercury, concerning Apparitions, which would
   *have inserted under this head. It in vol. 17, numb. 25, Tuesday, June 1695.
                                         of
      The old family mansion at this place, once the residence of nobles and men of learning, has, like many: is

other ancient houses of note, fallen to ruins, and, after various mutations into the dwelling and premises of the

farmer and even his labourer, has been effaced from the soil. Wood's account of Aubrey renders    pro
                                                                                  a
bable that he often visited the Earl of Abingdon, at Lavington. The adjacent town of Market Lavington was; it

the birth-place and residence of his friend, Tanner.                             Sir Thomas Phillipps --the
      " Iteposited in the Museum at Oxford." This refers to the work printed
    tf                                                                        intended to add similar Deby

                   ofthe North Division  Wiltshire to which Aubrey, perhaps,
Description

scription of the South division of the county.
       Aubrey's recent correspondence with Dr. Tanner had evidently led him to regard his new friend as his

literary executor, instead of Hooke, previously referred to.
HIS DEATH AND INTERMENT.  73

Mr. Dunton,* at the Raven in Jewin Street, will help you to this Mercury, but

yesterday he would not, his wife being newly departed. J. A."

   In 1721 a second edition of the Miscellanies was published by "A. Bettesworth and

J. Battley in Paternoster Row, J. Pemberton in Fleet Street, and E. Curll in the

Strand," in which the above letter is printed ; and which, besides some additions

and corrections in various parts, contains the story of an apparition referred to by

Aubrey as above mentioned.

    The increasing age and bodily afflictions adverted to in Aubrey's correspondence,

and especially the fit of apoplexy from which he suffered in the year 1694, were certain

preludes to his decline and death. Probably another apoplectic fit was the immediate
cause of his dissolution ; at all events the suddenness of his decease isshewn by the

fact that, within six days after the date of the above quoted letter, hewas buried in the

ancient parish church of St. Mary Magdalene at Oxford. The entry in the register

of burials stands thus :--" 1697 John Aubery A stranger was Buryed Jun. 7th."

    The term u Stranger" merely implies that Aubrey was an out-parishioner, or

extra-parochial person, for whose burial additional fees were charged. As a member
of Trinity College he was probably interred in the south aile of the nave : where
indeed so many distinguished members of that college were buried that until

recently it was known as the " Trinity aile." There is no inscription, or other
record than the register, to mark the place of his interment ; nor is it probable that

any sepulchral memorial of him was erected.

   In 1719, Dr. Rawlinson stated in his Memoir that "several misfortunes" reduced
Aubrey, in the latter part of his life, " to very low and mean circumstances, so that

(as a Reverend Divine from Kington St. Michael's informed the Editor,) he was

generously supported by the late Lady Long, of Draycot, in her own house, to which

   * John Dunton was an eccentric and successful bookseller, from 1769 until within a few years of his
death, which occurred in 1733. He carried on business at different places successively, but his shop generally
bore the sign of the Black Raven. He wrote and published his "Life and Errors" (1705), wherein he
records a variety of curious and interesting particulars of contemporary authors, printers, booksellers, &c.
Many extracts from this volume may be found in Nichols's Literary Anecdotes of the 18fA Century;
especially an account of the origin, contents, and progress of the Athenian Mercury, which attained a great
degree of popularity (vol. v. p. 67) ; and the Life and Errors, with selections from Dunton's other works, were
reprinted in 1818, in two vols. 8vo.

                                                                                                                     L
74 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

he was going, on his return from London, when his journey and life were concluded

at Oxford, where it is presumed he was buried ; though neither the time of his Obit

or his place of burial can be yet recovered."*

   How far the statement that Aubrey was " supported " by Lady Long is correct,

cannot now be ascertained. This Lady's husband, Colonel, afterwards Sir James

Long, Bart., has been already mentioned. He frequently corresponded with Aubrey,

and after his death, which occurred in 1692, his widow probably continued to the

venerable antiquary that friendly patronage which he had previously enjoyed.

The tradition of Aubrey being on his road to Draycot when he died rests entirely

upon the authority of the passage above quoted, but it is most likely true.

Aubrey in his life-time fully anticipated some monument would be raised to mark

his last resting-place. Amongst his papers are two suggestions, made at different

times, for an Inscription to be placed on his tomb. In the first of these he de

scribes himself briefly as the son and heir of Richard Aubrey of Easton-Pierse,

adding, " Obiit A0 Dni 168 . . . die mensis     ;"fA0 ^Etatis suae 6 --

shewing that he contemplated his demise much earlier than it occurred, for when

that event took place he was in his 72nd year.

   * After the publication of this Memoir, Dr. Rawlinson ascertained the place of Aubrey's burial ; and
wrote upon the margin of his own copy, now in the Bodleian Library, the following words : " Mr. John Aubrey
,died at Oxford, and was buried in St. Mary Magdalene Parish Church there, Octob. 1697." Though not

precise as to the month, this note referred me to the right source of information respecting Aubrey's burial .

and it is evident that no very extensive research was made by the various writers on the subject, from the

time of Rawlinson to the present day, or it must otherwise have been long ago discovered. The portrait of

Aubrey engraved by Vandergucht, which accompanied the learned Doctor's Memoir, was afterwards inscribed,
below the name of Aubrey, " Obiit Oxon. Junii 7, 1697 ;" and with this addition impressions of the plate accom

panied Manning and Bray's History of Surrey. This inscription, it will be observed, is not strictly correct ;

as the 7th of June was not the day of Aubrey's death, but of his burial. The majority of his biogra
phers have been content to copy Dr. Rawlinson's printed statement on this point ; though some of them state
that he " died at Draycot," and others " on the road from Oxford to Draycot." Browne Willis appended a
manuscript note to his copy of the memoir (now in the British Museum), as follows : " Buried in St. Michael's
Church Oxon. in Jesus College Isle" ; a statement not borne out by the registers of that church, and certainly
erroneous. In the curious manuscript Obituary bequeathed by Sir William Musgrave, Bart, to the British

 Museum, the year of his death is correctly stated ; the authority for it being merely indicated by the

abbreviation "MS." which perhaps refers to the above mentioned note by Rawlinson. With these exceptions the

question of time and place has till now remained in doubt, as it was left by the learned Doctor's Essay in 1719.

   t North Division of Wiltshire, in the Ashmolean Museum.
                ADMINISTRATION GRANTED TO HIS BROTHER.                                                                                                75

   The second proposed inscription, beneath a shield of the family arms, Azure, a
chevron between three eagle's heads erased or, is as follows :--

                Jtt £

                           Uofjannrs Sutury
                de Easton-Piers in Agro Wilton,

                   Arm: Regalis Societatis Socius
                                 infra situs est.

                Obiit

I" wod desire                             Anno (Dm.                  of white Mble. about the
                                                   (iEtat.

                that this Inscription shod be a stone

bigness of a royal sheet of paper, scilicet, about 2 foot square. Mr. Reynolds of

Lambeth, Stonecutter, (Foxhall,) who married Mr. Elias Ashmole's Widow, will ^y
me to a Marble as square as an imperial sheet of paper for 8 shillings," *

   John Aubrey died intestate : and Letters of Administration to his effects were

granted, on the 18th of December 1697, to his surviving brother, William.-f- In the
record of the circumstance in the Prerogative Office, Doctors' Commons, John is
described as " late of Broad Chalk in the county of Wilts, Bachelor."

   William Aubrey lived until 1707- He seems to have been on very affectionate

* Written on a
f                                                           Villare Anglicanum,
                             fly
                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                            p.
                leaf at the end of Aubrey's Interpretation                                                                                            in the Asbmolean

Museum.

Thomas, his younger brother, died many years before. (See Pedigree,                                                                             24.)
  76 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

  terms with his brother, and occasionally assisted him in his antiquarian researches.*
  He resided at Kington St. Michael, where he died, unmarried ; and was buried in
  the parish church on the 29th of October. His circumstances appear to have been
  straitened, for his " principal creditor, Thomas Stokes," took out administration of

  his goods and chattels, on the 24th of November following his death. If William

   Aubrey had preserved any of his brother's personal or literary documents, they
   were most probably destroyed by those into whose hands they afterwards passed.

     The preceding narrative, and the varied memoranda of Aubrey himself, together

  with those of his contemporaries, which have been quoted from numerous manu
   script and printed works, cannot fail to afford ample evidence and elucidation of the
  prominent characteristics of the man. They also furnish many striking features of
' the tone and temper of an age which was peculiar, and deserving of remark, for the
  illiteracy, superstition, and besotted infatuation of even the higher classes of society.
  In spite of the writings and example of such men as Camden, Bacon, and Shak-
   spere, who preceded the Aubrey era, the greater part of the seventeenth century may

  be classed as part of the " dark ages." The foundation of the Royal, and some other
  literary and scientific societies, was the advent of improvement in the public mind,

   and, though their effects were not immediate or remarkable, they unquestionably
  opened new roads to social intercourse and mental emulation. Had Aubrey lived and
   associated with Dr. Stukeley, and the other founders of the Society of Antiquaries, and
  the Egyptian Society, we may be assured that both his writings and his life would
  have presented many features, dissimilar to those shown by the evidence here

  adduced. It is but reasonable to infer that, had all his private manuscripts been

   preserved, they would have afforded much additional information relating to himself
  and his contemporaries, as well as to many places and things, which would in the
  present day be highly interesting.

    In reviewing the personal or domestic characteristics of John Aubrey, by the

     * See North Division of Wiltshire, (printed by Sir Thomas Phillipps,) part ii. pp. 2, 82, and a letter
  from Tanner in the Collection of Letters to Aubrey, ut supra, vol. ii.
                         HIS FRIENDSHIP FOR WOOD AND HOBBES.                                             77

aid of such materials as are accessible, the qualities most conspicuous are his frank

and candid simplicity, combined with a natural warmth and kindness of heart : a

disposition, however, which was accompanied (as is too often the case) with a certain
degree of incapacity for the active business of life, and a proportionate love of literary

ease or indolence. Less fortunate in pecuniary affairs than his birth and station in

life had led him to anticipate, he was always involved in debt after the demise of his

father, and consequently became harassed and oppressed by litigation.

    Aubrey was an affectionate relative, a kind and indulgent master,* and a sincere,

enthusiastic, and forbearing friend : qualities which must have endeared him to all his

acquaintance. His sympathies for Hobbes as well as Wood led Aubrey to feel acutely

the injury inflicted on the latter by Bishop Fell, who, contrary to the author's wish,

not only caused his History of the University of Oxford to be translated into Latin,
but altered and mutilated it in many parts, and more especially in the notice of the

"philosopher of Malmesbury." Here is one of Aubrey's many epistles to Wood
upon the subject : " I received your kind letter w,h Dr Fell's insertions concerning
....my countryman Mr Th. Hobbes, & sent you an answer to
                                                                           y° it,  and        of my

delivering to him (who remembers him very kindly to y°), and that he wod desirea it
   to write letter of complaint to him of and he will vindicate himself in print
y°                                              is
                                                  is a
against Dr, at end of book he now printing, viz. the translation of Homer'syeye
                             it                           & it,
Odysseys.   I     have not since heard from y°, so that whether received my letter&                      II
                                ;a
am doubtful.      I  showed                     to Sr Chr. Wren Dr Twisse (who remembers him to y°)

aim multis aliis, Virtuosis who all funo ore) cry out of the injustice used against
y°, and say again (amongst others Mr Dugdale Mr Ashmole) that have no way
                                                                                   ye
                                                                                          y°
so good to cleare yourselfe, as to print sheet here in London of Drs foystings, to

be bound up wth yor book. Dr Twisse sufficiently nettled (as he haz reason) and
   glad to heare of such revenger." This was dated April, 1674 and he renews
is                                                                                 ;

              a
                 a

                                             a
the subject, urging most strongly an explanation on the part of Wood, in several

   * In letter to Wood, 1668, Aubrey urges him to recommend his " beloved servant, Robinet, to wait on
Mr President" (Bathurst, of Trinity College), " such being the height of his desires." He further adds, "

could prefer him to the E. of Worcester, or Pembroke, but Oxford       is  the place he loves, and where he could

make out better livelyhood." In subsequent letters he sends his " love to Robinet." --Ballard Collection, ut

supra.
78 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

other letters, written in the same year. " Your book," he says, " is generally very

well received, but would bave been better, had not ye Dean embittered so much
                                          a
and so often, wth his gall and spleen."*                                                  it,

   Except in this instance, Aubrey was not partizan in any of the literary quarrels
of his time. Unlike Hobbes and Wallis, Wren and Flamsteed, Hooke and Newton,

his name does not appear to have been immediately involved in any personal or

literary dispute.
   In the age in which he lived credulity and superstition might be especially

expected to accompany such a warm, enthusiastic temperament as Aubrey's and,
                                          a
but for his innate good sense, acuteness, and discrimination, the absurd delusions ofa

astrology would have exercised more potent influence over his works and actionsa

than they appear to have done.                                                        ;

Aubrey,  may be presumed, received as good an education as was usually       it
         it                                                                           is

                              ;                                                                      a;

                                a
imparted by the tutors and colleges of his age. The course appears to have

embraced the classics,             general knowledge of algebra, geometry, mathematics,

natural history, &c. but he never became eminent as scholar or man of science.

His Idea of Education shows that, although he did not undervalue the advantages

of mere erudition, he felt the necessity of more practical system of instruction

than he had himself received, in order to prepare  youth for the business and

general pursuits of the world.

His loyalty to the House of Stuart was no doubt sincere but                                    displayed

rather by invectives against the tyranny of the Puritans than by any expressions of
regard for their ill-fated but misguided victim, -- Charles the First, -- or his profligate

successor. Religious topics he seldom appears to have adverted to. He was Pro

testant and he records his devout acknowledgments to the Almighty for preserva
;

tion from many dangers. (Vide ante, pp. 18, 19.)
   Aubrey's love of literature, of science, and of antiquarian research and illus

tration, the interest he felt in all projects for local or national improvements, and in

matters relating to the mechanical and useful arts, together with his zeal for the

                        *  Originals in the Ballard Collection, ut supra.
HIS ORTHOGRAPHY HAND-WRITING -- PERSONAL APPEARANCE.  /9

welfare and advancement of societies, and public bodies, instituted with similar

views, are proved by numerous passages in his writings. His Lives of Eminent

Men* especially, have many memoranda showing his desire to advocate and promote

such objects.

   His easy and familiar style of composition has been already illustrated by the
extracts from his writings in the preceding pages. It is certainly peculiar, and

almost unique. Notwithstanding their liveliness and freedom, his productions

have much less vulgarity and coarseness than those of many of his contemporaries ;
but they are occasionally disfigured by uncouth words of Latin derivation, now long

since obsolete. His orthography is comparatively pure and modern. It is true, pre

cision in the orthography of names was not then practised or studied; hence,
though he generally spelt his own name " Aubrey," on some occasions he wrote it

" Awbrey." He frequently used the monogram J. A. (formed by a J. within, and

crossing the horizontal line of, the letter A.) instead of a signature at full ; some
times he Latinized the name, " Albericus ;" and in one letter to Anthony a Wood
he quaintly signs " Jo. Gregorius," perhaps with reference to his birth upon St.
Gregorys Day. His handwriting varies considerably. In later life, and in all

of his most hurried memoranda, it is very small and illegible ; but his more elabo

rate and important manuscripts are in a bold and plain character.

    Although we have not any satisfactory data to mark or define his general personal

figure and appearance,-f- we may infer from the portrait accompanying this volume

that his features were manly, bold, expressive, and intelligent. The nose, mouth,

forehead, and eyes show that the face was symmetrical and fine, and, therefore,

calculated to make a good bust or picture. The monstrous and barbarous wig,

however, not only disfigured the human countenance, but, like a bad and disgusting

frame to a beautiful picture, was calculated to deteriorate and degrade the gem

it enshrined.

   * See volume ii. pp. 203, 482, 475, 502. Also his Faber Fortunes, noticed in chap. v. of this Memoir.

  t In noticing the " squeaking voice" of Dr. Kettle, Aubrey says, " they were wont to mock me with this."

{Lives of Eminent Men, vol. ii. p. 422.) This corroborates the allusion of Henry Coley (ante, p. 48) to
" an Impediment in ye Native's speech." From a note to his Life of Milton we learn that Aubrey was " of
middle stature." He was particularly minute in describing the personal appearance of those of whom he wrote,

and perhaps attached some importance to the advantages of a handsome face and figure.
80 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Aubrey distinctly mentions at least three original Portraits of himself. The first

was taken in 1656, when he was thirty years of age. He does not name the artist,

but merely states that a picture of him, painted at that age, was, in 1671, in the

possession of the widow of his friend, Lord Charles Seymour.* It may have been

the work of the celebrated Samuel Cooper, who is known to have painted his

portrait. Indeed, if this early picture were not by him, it must be held to con

stitute a fourth in the present list, as the artists of two others are known. In a

letter to John Ray he writes: "London, Oct. 22, 1691. Sir, When I was lately at

IOxford gave several things to the Musaeum, which was lately robbed, since I

wrote to you. Among other things my picture in miniature, by Mr S. Cowper,

a (which at an auction yields 20 Guineas,) and Archbishop Bancroft's, by Hillyard,
    the famous Illuminer in Q,. Elizabeth's time."-f- To which Ray replied, " You write

that the Museum at Oxford was rob'd, but do not say whether your noble present

was any part of the losse. Your picture done in miniature by Mr Cowper is a thing

of great value. I remember so long ago as I was in Italy, & while he was yet

living, any piece of his was highly esteemed there ; & for that kind of painting he

was esteemed the best artist in Europe." % No portrait of Aubrey by Cooper, nor
any portrait of Archbishop Bancroft, is now in the Ashmolean Museum, nor is the

fact of such pictures having been there formerly on record. They were probably

stolen, as mentioned in the above letters. §                           One of these
   Respecting the identity of two other portraits, there is no doubt.

   * " My Ld. Ch. Seymour had my picture, aetat. 30, which his lady now hath." -- Note, dated 1671, on title
page of Monumenta Britannica. The nobleman here alluded to (who died in 1665) is the same individual
Imentioned as the Honourable Mr. Seymour in p. 80, ante. Since writing the note * in p. 16, have been
led to conclude that the " Mr. Ch. Seymour " there noticed amongst the friends of Aubrey, is also the same
person as the " Ld. Ch. Seymour" here named. The reader is therefore desired to cancel the note referred
to. In enumerating his distinguished friends, Aubrey inserted his lordship's name, although at that time he
had been dead more than fifteen years. He described him as Mr. Seymour, as he had only been Lord

Seymour of Troubridge a year before his death.

  f Printed in Ray's Philosophical Letters, 8vo. 1718, p. 251 ; and in Aubrey's History of Surrey, vol. v. p.

408.

   X Original annexed to Aubrey's Natural History of Wilts, in the Ashmolean Museum.

  If§ the picture painted in Aubrey's thirtieth year was identical with that by Cooper, it follows that,

between 1671 and 1691, it had been returned by Lady Seymour.
PORTRAITS OP AUBREY.                                                                   81

was drawn by William Faithorne the elder* (an artist well known by his finely en
graved portraits), in the year 1666, when Aubrey was forty years of age. This has

Ibeen engraved several times, but can confidently assert that the print accom

panying the present memoir is a more faithful copy of the original than any
previously published. The drawing, which is in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, is
executed in Indian ink, in a careful and beautiful manner, with the flesh slightly
coloured. It is in an old black frame, and has an inscription beneath, which (though
partly pasted over in the process of mounting) may still be read, as follows : " Mr.
John Aubrey, R.S.S. 1666. jEtatis 40."

   The author intended to have this drawing engraved for publication in his

Monumenta Britannica, as appears by another part of the note upon the title-
page of the work already quoted: -- ',' My brother hath the picture that Mr.

Faith orn drew in black and white, A0 1666, in order to engrave it for this book."

But the contemplated publication being deferred, he, about twenty years afterwards,

had another portrait drawn by David Loggan,-f- who was also an engraver:

and it is evident that the latter drawing was intended to be engraved to accom

pany his Natural History of Wiltshire. It is so expressly mentioned, not only
in the curious Will printed in page 60, but also on the manuscript of the work
itself, as follows :-- " Anno 1686. iEtatis 60. Mr. David Loggan the graver, drew my

picture, in black and white, in order to be engraved, which is still in his hands."

   No plate from either of these drawings had been engraved until 1719; when

  * William Faithorne was born in London, but it is not known in what year. He died in 1691. It

is said that he studied the art of painting portraits in crayons at Paris. His engravings, which are chiefly

portraits, are executed almost entirely with the graver, in a clear, free style. Many of them are of admirable

execution ; and good impressions from some are scarce and valuable.  At the time he drew Aubrey's

portrait, he was carrying on a considerable trade in Italian, Dutch, and English prints, near Temple Bar,

where he had established himself as an engraver and printseller. -- Bryan's Dictionary of Painters and

Engravers.                                                 He came to England before the Resto

  f David Loggan was born at Daatzic about the year 1630.
ration, and was first employed in engraving views of the public buildings of the University of Oxford. He

also drew and engraved a series of views of the colleges, &c. in Cambridge (folio,  1688), which, with those of
                                                                                    with the graver, in a neat,
the sister University, are highly interesting.  His works are generally executed
but formal style. --Bryan's Dictionary of Painters and Engravers.

                                                                                    M
82 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Michael Vander Gucht copied that of Faithorne, in line, for Aubrey's History
of Surrey, 8vo. which was published in that year by Dr. Rawlinson. This bears
the inscription "John Aubrey, Esq. F.R.S. M. Vder Gucht Sculp." Impressions of
the same plate, printed on folio paper, and with the words "Obiit Oxon. Junii
7, 1697," added to the Inscription, were prefixed to the second volume of

Manning and Bray's History of Surrey, 1 809.
  The next engraved portrait of Aubrey was a frontispiece to J. Caulfield's Oxford

Cabinet, a 4to. volume published in 1797, containing a few of Aubrey's Lives
of Eminent Men. This, which is in stipple, and larger than Vander Gucht's head,

has beneath it the family shield and crest of Aubrey ; also the name " John

Aubrey, Esq. F.R.S." ; but no artist's name. In the arms, the eagle's heads (both

in the shield and crest) are incorrectly turned to the sinister side ; but I have an

impression of the plate with the arms corrected by the engraver, and with the

additional words, " Published by J. Caulfield, Jan*. 1. 1798."

    Another portrait deserving especial notice was engraved by Francis Bartolozzi,
for Malone, from a copy of Faithorne's Drawing, purposely made by Silvester Har

ding. It was never published, and impressions are exceedingly scarce ; indeed
only two or three proofs were probably taken. As it is a fine specimen by a justly
celebrated engraver, it would have gratified me to have substituted impressions

of that plate for those prefixed to this memoir.*
   A fourth portrait was engraved by T. Cook, for Malcolm's Lives of Topographers

and Antiquaries (4to. 1815), and there is also an unpublished etching by Mrs.

Dawson Turner, of Great Yarmouth, Norfolk. All of these are from the Ashmolean

picture.

    * Mr. G. P. Harding, an artist of talent, who has devoted many years to copying fine old historical

Iportraits, has the only proof of the plate have ever seen. Knowing that it had been executed for the late
IEdmund Malone, and intended by him for his last edition of Shakspere's works, instituted inquiries, through

the medium of the Gentleman's Magazine, and of persons who were connected with the annotator on Shak-
spere, for the unpublished plate, but without success. Some of Mr. Malone's books, &c. were deposited in the

IBodleian library, Oxford, and others in the public library at Dublin, to each of which establishments
applied in vain. The engraving is noticed in Granger's Biographical History of England, vol. v. p. 272

(8vo. edition of 1824).
                                               83

BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS OF THE MANUSCRIPT AND PRINTED WORKS OF JOHN AUBREY.

In the following brief account of Aubrey's literary papers I propose to describe

the contents and present state of them, in the order marked by himself, as already

given (page 20).                                                                 Aubrey's
   The greater part of these are in the Ashmolean Museum, at Oxford.

gift to that establishment has been already mentioned ; and the circumstance

is recorded, in a prominent and appropriate manner, by the following inscription,

in letters of gold, upon a blue ground, over the doorway to the library of

the Museum.

"f D. ELIiE ASHMOLE ET MARTIN LISTER : QUIBUS NON PAUCOS
                              ADDIDIT VIR INDUSTRITJS NEC INFIME DE RE ANTIQUARIA ET
                                 PHYSICA PROMERITUS, D. JOHANNES AUBREY DE EASTON
                                  PIERCE APUD WILTONENSES ARM. ET SOC : REG: SOCIUS."**

      His manuscripts do not appear to have sustained any material injury since they
      were first deposited there : along with them are some writings in small quarto,
       on musical subjects, by Mercator ; and a beautiful breviary, which belonged to
      Sir Thomas Pope. These formed part of Aubrey's collection ; and, in addition,
       there are two folio manuscript volumes relating to Dr. Dee, preserved in the same
       closet, which have been considered as part of his gift to the Museum whereas
       they were in fact presented by Edward Llhwyd. One of those volumes
f
        ;
                                     a
                                                              by
                                                                                     -f*
                                                                                               by
                                                                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                                                   is
* " The printed and manuscript books bestowed  those most famous men, Elias Ashmole and Martin

Lister to which not few were added  that industrious man, and no mean deserver in things relating to

antiquity, John Aubrey, of Easton Peirce, in Wiltshire, Esq. and F.R.S." -- Translation in Biographia

Britannica.

By Warton and Huddesford, in their edition of Anthony a Wood's Life. 8vo. 1772.
84 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

chiefly in the hand-writing of Dr. Dee, and the other contains some materials,
collected by Elias Ashmole, for a life of that once noted astrologer. Nearly the
whole of the ancient coins, which were given to the Museum by Aubrey, still

form part of its collection. They consisted of thirty-seven Roman brass specimens,

principally of the Lower Empire ; and fourteen matrices for Roman coins ; most

of which were found at Edington, in the parish of Moorlinch, Somersetshire. Only

five of the latter remain, and these, with a few of the former, are exhibited

in one of the glass cases. Aubrey also gave to the Museum a fragment of a
Roman pavement from Farley Castle, Wiltshire ; * but this, according to a memo

randum on an old manuscript catologue of the collection, was subsequently

removed, though for what reason it is difficult to say, into the Medical Profes

sor's Cabinet ; which was in a separate building.

Aubrey's manuscripts, given to the Museum, could hardly have amounted to

more than thirty volumes; therefore, according to the Register of Benefactions

(quoted in page 63), he must have presented also about fifty volumes of printed

books. Unlike the manuscripts, these have always been mixed and confounded

with the general collection ; no separate list of them appears to have been made ;

and they are only to be identified by the autograph of the donor, which appears
inside the covers of some of them, or the inscription, " Musei Ashmoleani Ex dono

clarissimi authoris," written upon others. Amongst the volumes thus traced are
f * I.
                                           -f-
                                              by
                                                        it
                                                                                      2
                                                                                                         it
several containing Popish Plot pamphlets, and similar ephemeral publications.
   The following account of the Aubrey Manuscripts may be useful to future

antiquaries and biographers: whilst  will tend to confirm and exemplify the

opinions herein given of his personal industry and literary merits.

"Antiquities of Wiltshire, after the method of Sir W. Dugdale's

Description of Warwickshire.         parts, in fol." [In the Ashmolean

Museum^]

Incidental notices of this work, especially of the manner in which                                           was first

undertaken by the writer in 1659, and of its elaborate execution, will be found in

Camden's Britannia,  Gibson, (1695), note in col. 105, quoting Aubrey as the authority,

These words are inscribed on the copy of Aubrey's Miscellanies, given by him to the Museum.
"NORTH DIVISION OF WILTSHIRE."  85

previous pages of the present memoir. It consists of two volumes, folio, bound in
vellum ; with the title, " An Essay Towards the Description of the North Division of

Wiltshire. By me John Aubrey, of Easton Pierse." During the author's life it was
lent successively to Wood and to Tanner, and quoted in Gibson's edition of Camden's

Britannia. Aubrey alludes to it under the titles, the Description of Wiltshire, and
the Antiquities of Wiltshire ; but never by its full title, as here given. He speaks of it
in the Dedication of his Miscellanies, as being " half finished already," and "reposited
in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxon."

   The "Introduction" to this manuscript was printed entire in a very scarce
and curious pamphlet, published in 1714, and which is deserving of particular

notice. This little work, often erroneously quoted as "Aubrey's" Miscel
lanies, bears the following title : -- " Miscellanies on several curious subjects : now

first publish'd from their respective originals. London, Printed for E. Curll, at the
Dial and Bible, over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet Street, 1714." (8vo. pp.
88).* The title page has a small medallion portrait, which in the catalogue of
the Stourhead Library is said to represent Aubrey. This is evidently erroneous ;

Ias is also a manuscript note have seen, stating that the volume was edited by

Hearne, and that the portrait is intended for Anthony a Wood. The present remarks
are intended to correct an erroneous statement made in the Essay on Topography,

(p. xl.) published by the Wiltshire Topographical Society, in which the volume
above referred to is confounded with Aubrey's Miscellanies.

   From the Introduction to the volume by Aubrey, now under consideration, it may be

expedient to quote a few passages which are intimately connected with his biography,

and also with the Topography of Wiltshire. " I am heartily sorry I did not set down

the Antiquities of these parts sooner, for since the Time aforesaid [1659] many
Things are irrecoverably lost. In former Days the Churches and great Houses here

abouts did so abound with Monuments and Things remarkable, that it would have

   * Besides the Introduction to Aubrey's North Division of Wiltshire, the volume contains the charge,
answer, and sentence, in the prosecution of Anthony a Wood for his alleged libel on Lord Clarendon ; also

five letters on various matters of antiquity by Ashmole, Plot, Langbaine, and Selden ; and five others, on
similar subjects, addressed to Aubrey by Andrew Paschal, John Lydall, and E. G. [Edmund Gibson ?]
86 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

deterr'd an Antiquary from undertaking it." After a review of the state of the

northern part of Wiltshire before the Roman Invasion, and under the dynasties
of the Romans, Saxons, Normans, &c. successively, he states that " in the time of

Henry VIII. this country was a lovely Champain, as that about Sherston and

Cotswold ; very few Enclosures, unless near Houses. My Grandfather Lyte did

remember when all between Cromhall (at Eston) and Castle Comb was so, when
Easton, Yatton, and Comb, did intercommon together. In my remembrance much

hath been enclos'd, and every year more and more is taken in. Anciently the Leghs

(now corruptly called Sleights), i. e. Pastures, were noble large grounds, as yet the
demesne lands at Castle Combe are. So likewise in his remembrance was all

between Kington St. Michael and Draycot Cerne common fields. There was a

world of labouring people maintained by the plough, as yet in Northamptonshire,

&c. There were no rates for the poor in my Grandfather's dayes ; but for Kington

S' Michael (no small parish) the Church-ale at Whitsuntide did the business". He
then traces the derivation of the term Church-ale, and, after noticing the religious

festivals of the times referred to, says, " Such joy and merriment was every Holyday ;

which days were kept with great solemnity and reverence.  These were the days
when England was famous for the Grey Goose Quills."
                                                             " This country was

full of Religious houses. Old Jacques (who lived where Charles Hadnam did) could

see from his house the Nuns of the Priory of St. Mary's (juxta Kington) come forth

into the Nymph-Hay, with their Rocks and Wheels, to spin, and with their sewing

work. He would say that he hath told three score and ten; tho' of Nuns there

were not so many ; but in all, with Lay-sisters, as Widows, Old maids, and young

Girls, there might be such a number. This was a fine way of breeding up young

women, who are led more by example than precept, and a good retirement for

widows and grave single women, to a civil, virtuous, and holy Life." It concludes

thus : " This searching after Antiquities is a wearisome task. I wish I had gone
through all the Church monuments. The records at London I can search gratis.
Though of all studies I take the least delight in this, yet methinks I am carried on

a

                                          it

                                                                     a
                                                                                                        it,
with a kind of Oestrum ; for nobody else hereabout hardly cares for but rather

makes scorn of it. But methinks shews kind of gratitude and good nature, to
                            "MONUMENTA BRITANNICA."                                             87

revise the memories and memorials of the pious and charitable Benefactors long
since dead and gone. Eston-Pierse, April 28, 1670."*

   This work, as already mentioned (ante, p. 2), has been published at the expense of
Sir Thomas Phillipps, Bart.,-f- who however acknowledges that his edition was printed
from a transcript, and that the proof sheets were not compared with the original.
The omission of Aubrey's original drawings seriously depreciates the printed copy.
Amongst these are some interesting sketches of Kington St. Michael, shewing the
church, with the spire, which was then standing ; and the adjoining buildings. The
passages in Domesday Book relating to Kington and Langley have been copied with
great care and literal accuracy, and are preserved in the manuscript referred to.

   All previous writers have omitted to distinguish this work from that by Aubrey,
on the Natural History of Wiltshire (see Article III.) Warton and Huddesford

mention only the latter ; and their statement has been copied in every succeeding
notice, excepting that in the Biographical Dictionary of the Society for the Dif
fusion of Useful Knowledge, by Mr. Stanesby, who was led to conjecture that
there were two works on Wiltshire written by Aubrey.

                   II. " MONUMENTA BRITANNICA. 3 PARTS. FOL."
   All my attempts to trace the manuscript of this important work have failed. I

possess, however, an abstract of which was made for me, from one more copious,
in the Bodleian Library, Oxford. The latter was copied by Richard Gough, the
Topographer, from manuscript in the possession of the Rev. Mr. Hutchins, of
                of
                         a
                                              it,
       As early as 1716 this introduction was quoted by the author of curious essay well known to Topo

graphers, viz. A Little Monument to the once famous Abbey and Borough of Glastonbury published in
|*                                                               a
J.Hearne's History Glastonbury (1722).
                                                                    I
      In two parts, small 4to. The first was printed by                                    I;
                                                                 Davy, Queen Street, Seven Dials, in 1821, with
the title, " Aubrey's Collections for Wilts, Part I." and the second in 1838, with the full title, " An Essay

Towards the Description of the North Division of Wiltshire. By me John Aubrey, of Easton Pierse. Typis

Medio-Montanis, Impressit C. Gilmour, 1838." The first part was printed when Sir Thomas was abroad,

and he admits, " not so accurately as could have desired.        To this second part therefore  have added
                                          I

the list of Errata, by which the possessors of the work will be able to correct their 1st part." Unfor

tunately, these Errata do not appear in the copies of the second part which have seen, nor have the promised
" Appendix                                         "
            of  Plates and  Descriptions  of Arms     yet  made  their appearance.
88 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Wareham, in Dorsetshire (the learned historian of that county), which copy was,
in its turn, abridged from the original by Aubrey.

   At the time of Aubrey's death the original work belonged to Awnsham

Churchill, an opulent London bookseller and publisher, at the end of the seven
teenth and early part of the eighteenth centuries, and it remained in the pos
session of his descendants until the year 1819.

   Churchill was the last person with whom we find Aubrey in communication
(vide ante p. 72). He published Gibson's edition of Camden's Britannia (1695),
and it is not improbable that Aubrey deposited the Monumenta Britannica with

him for the purpose of publication ; or it may have been left in his custody, after the
completion of the Britannia, by one of the literary friends of Aubrey, who must
have had recourse to it for the improvement of that work : the latter supposition
is strengthened by a note in Warton's Life of Bathurst (8vo. 1761, p. 151). Dr.
Rawlinson, in his Memoir of the author (1719), states that the manuscript was at
that time said to be in Mr. Churchill's hands. The wealthy bookseller purchased
the manor of Henbury, near Wimborne, in Dorsetshire, in 1704; was member of

Parliament for Dorchester in 1709; and ultimately died unmarried.*

The manuscript afterwards became the property of his nephew and representative,

Awnsham Churchill, of Henbury ; and in 1755 the Rev. John Hutchins, who resided

in the vicinity, " made a faithful abstract of                  with copies of the rude sketches,
                                                     %
while was lent to him for the use of his excellent history of Dorsetshire."-f-
+ it                                                      it it,
             \ of byThe original was, perhaps, inaccessible to Gough, for in October 1769 he made

                               ahis transcript or abridgment from Hutchins's. He evidently thought very highly
of the work, and in his British Topography, published in 1780, and afterwards in his
                                                 p.
edition of Camden's Britannia,^ he refers to with much commendation. He
states that the original was then in the possession of Awnsham Churchill, Esq. of
Henbury, who he calls son of Awnsham Churchill, the bookseller.

At a very early period of my architectural and antiquarian studies, my attention

    * See an article  an old correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine (1783),                                                  quoted in Nichols's
Literary Anecdotes                                                                                                                 145, note.
                      the \Sth Century, (ed. 1812), vol.  150, note.
               Ibid.                                 ii.
                                                                       i.
                                                                            p.

                                                                                             §
                                                                                                                              p.
                      Preface, xiii. and vol. pp. 369, 370.           Wiltshire,
            « MONUMENTA BRITANNICA."                                                                                                                                      89

was forcibly drawn to this work, in consequence of the notice which it had received

from Gough and other writers ; and accordingly, in 1814, I was induced to procure
the copy I have already mentioned from that of Gough ; which, on his death, had
Ibeen deposited in the Bodleian Library, at Oxford. In 1817 lent the volume to

the late Sir Richard Colt Hoare, who was so much pleased with its contents that

he applied to Mr. William Churchill, of Henbury (a son of Awnsham Churchill the
younger), who then possessed the original, and by his kindness procured the loan
of for the purposes of his work on Ancient Wiltshire* Sir Richard made copious
extracts from the manuscript, chiefly of the parts relating to Wiltshire and these,

which, excepting Mr. Hutchins's, appear to be the only direct transcripts ever made

from Aubrey's work, still remain in the library at Stourhead, Wiltshire. Sir Richard
Hoare added some manuscript notes, in illustration of the text, to my abstract,
it,

                                                                                                                                                                    ;

and these have been since augmented by myself, by Dr. Sherwen, of Bath, and also

by others.

Since 1819, when Sir Richard Hoare referred to the Monumenta as being in the

possession of William Churchill, Esq., have not been able to learn its history.
I

        :

            ; is
                        is

                                                    *

                                       I

                                                                            is

                                                                      it

                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                   it

                                                                                                                                                                                                ;
On the death of the latter gentleman., many years ago, his son William sold

Henbury, with portions of his father's library, and resided himself in London

but have failed to ascertain from the representatives, either of those who con

ducted the sale, or of the principal purchaser, whether Aubrey's manuscript was

then disposed of. If retained by Mr. Churchill,  perhaps formed part of his

library in London, which on his death passed to his cousin Sir Charles Greville.

That gentleman also dead, and his brother, the Earl of Warwick, who inherited

his library, not aware that the manuscript in his collection, either in London,

or at the Castle of Warwick.

   The work bore the title, " Monumenta Britannica, or Miscellanie of British

Antiquities " and, according to Gough and Sir Richard C. Hoare, consisted of four

thin folio volumes, of about 100 pages each; the contents being arranged as
follows --

            See vol. ii. p. 57 of that work.

                                                                                                                                                                       N
90 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

  Part (or Vol.) I. Chap. 1. Templa Druidum, including a review of Stonehenge,

a particular account of Avebury ; and notices of Druidical monuments in various
parts of Great Britain.*-- 2. Mantissa de Religione et Moribus Druidum; from
several ancient authors.-- 3. An Apparatus of Bards. --4. Four of Dr. Garden's

Letters to Aubrey respecting Celtic Monuments, one of them being the letter
printed in Archaologia, vol. i. p. 312.

   Part II. Chap. 1. Of Camps.-- 2. Old Castles, or Castella.--3. Military Archi
tecture.--4. Roman Towns. -- 5. Pittes. -- 6. Homes.

  Part III. Chap. 1. Barrows. --2. Urnes. --3. Sepulchres. --4. Ditches.-- 5. High

Wayes. -- 6. Roman Pavements.--7- Coins. -- 8. Embanking and Draining.
  Part IV. (which was entitled STPQMATA sive Miscellanea). Chap. 1. Chro-

nologia Architectonica --2. Chronologia Graphica. -- 3. Chronologia Aspidologica. --

4. Chronologia Vestiaria. -- 5. Weights and Measures.-f- --6. Prices of Corne.-f---
7. Diversities of Standards or Values of Money.-f- -- 8. Nouvelles ; natural and arti
ficial things, by whom, and when, brought into England. --9. The proportion of

the several languages, ingredients of our present English.-f-

   There seems to have been a fifth part, containing remarks on Day-fatality,

Omens, Dreams, &c. ; but these were, no doubt, embodied in the volume Aubrey

published with the title of Miscellanies, and therefore cannot be regarded as a

portion of the Monumenta Britannica. The work, as we have seen (ante p. 66), was
lent to many of the author's friends, who all thought highly of it : some manu

script notes were added by John Evelyn, and Dr. Thomas Gale, and are favourably

   * This chapter constituted hy far the most important and valuable part of the work. It bore the motto,
from Cicero, De Divinatione, " Quis est, quern non moveat clarissimis monumentis testata consignataque
antiquitas ? '' which, from its peculiar application to the great temple at Avebury, was adopted by Sir

Richard Hoare, and prefixed to his account of that monument.  It is evident from Aubrey's correspondence

that, partly in compliance with a desire expressed by Dugdale, he at one time contemplated printing this
                     Tanner, however, who refers to some " proposals " for printing
f                                                                                                                                                    strongly urges him to
              it
                                        it
                                                                   p.
                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                       it,
chapter separately.
           all, and print in about forty sheets, which," he says, " will make very fair octavo or quarto."
" abridge

(Letters from the Bodleian, vol. ii. 170. See also several passages in the Original Letters to and from
Aubrey in the Ashmolean Museum, and Bodleian Library, ut supra.)

Gough states that the manuscript was deficient in these chapters.
                              "monumenta britannica."                                                                                                                          91

spoken of by Warton and Gough. It was dedicated to the Earl of Pembroke, to
whom also a work to be noticed next, --the Natural History of Wiltshire, -- was
inscribed ; and the Will, printed in p. 60, shows that Aubrey proposed to incor
porate the two works in one publication.

   The Monumenta Britannica had its origin in the command given by King Charles

the Second to the author, to print an account of Avebury (vide ante p. 39). The
nature of its contents were not, however, made public till 1695, when Gibson's

edition of the Britannia appeared ; wherein Aubrey's theory respecting Stonehenge

is expressly quoted, together with an abridgment of his description of Avebury.*

After that date the work was alluded to in the Memoirs of Aubrey, prefixed to his

History of Surrey (1719) and Miscellanies (2nd ed. 1721). Dr. Stukeley published
his volume on Abury in 1743, but does not allude to Aubrey's remarks upon that
temple, though he can hardly be supposed to have been ignorant of them. In
p. 32, he refers to " Mr. Aubrey's manuscript notes, printed with Camden's Bri
tannia." In his Itinerarium Curiosum, vol. ii. p. 169, speaking of the stone circle
at Stanton Drew, in Somersetshire, he says, " Mr. Aubrey, that indefatigable

searcher-out of antiquities, is the first that has observed it." The Monumenta was

particularly noticed, as already mentioned, by Warton (in his Life of Bathurst,
1761), by Gough, and by Sir Richard C. Hoare ; and it appears that Francis Perry
published some rude etchings from the sketches by Aubrey, in the first chapter of
Part IV., illustrating " the several styles of windows, &c. in England." These, it is
stated, he executed " while Mr. Hutchins's abstract was in the hands of one of his

London friends."
f

    It

            is
                                   -f-

                                                        p.

                                             of

                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                                                     p.
                                                                                                                                                                            ;
* singular that the learned Editor of the Britannia does not mention Aubrey, amongst the many

correspondents to whom, in his Preface, he acknowledges obligations.

Nichols's Literary Anecdotes           the 18th Century (ed. 1812), vol.  150, note                                                                                            and Gough's

British Topography, vol. ii.  370, note. Perry's etchings are to be found in his volume,                                                                                       entitled, " A

Series of English Medals," 4to. 1762.
92 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

III.--" Memoires of Naturall Remarques in Wilts. 2 parts, fol."

This was Aubrey's first literary work, and was commenced as early as 1656. It

was lent, during his life, to many of his learned associates ; and the original, which

is now in the Ashmolean Museum, has numerous manuscript notes by Evelyn, Ray,
Tanner, and Thomas Gale. It was also submitted to the Royal Society in 1675,*
and subsequently, when methodized and arranged in its present form, it was

dedicated to the Earl of Pembroke, then President of that scientific body. Perhaps
in the hope that it would be published by the society, the author made a fair

copy of the work, which he presented to them, and which is still preserved in their

valuable library.
   In 1719 Dr. Rawlinson printed the Dedication and Preface, as addenda to Aubrey's

History of Surrey (vol. v. p. 403). These he probably copied from the original.
The transcript in the Royal Society's library was quoted by Walpole in the first

chapter of his Anecdotes of Painting (1762). Gough states that he could not find
the work mentioned in Mr. Robertson's catalogue of that Library (British Topo

graphy, vol. ii. p. 515) ; and he does not appear to have taken the pains to make
further search. Warton and Huddesford refer to the original, in the list of

Aubrey's manuscripts at Oxford, in a note to the Life of Anthony a Wood.

   The original manuscript in the Ashmolean Museum consists of two folio
volumes, bound in vellum. Its full titles are, " The Natural Historie of Wiltshire,"
and " Memoires of Naturall Remarques in the county of Wilts ; to which are

annexed Observables of the same kind in the county of Surrey and Flyntshire. By

Mr. John Aubrey, R.S.S." The notes respecting Surrey and Flintshire, if ever written,

do not form part of the present manuscript. The title-pages bear the dates 1685

and 1686, when the contents appear to have been arranged and transcribed by the

author. It is dedicated to " The Right Honourable Thomas Earle of Pembroke and

* The following is part of a letter from Aubrey to Wood, dated, " Twelfe day, 1675. I have written ye

Natural Historie (for Dr. Plotts) of Wilts and Surrey, besides pieces of other counties ; ten sheetes closely
Iwritten, and shall send him more. As was sending it to Oxon our Secretary hearing of
                                              it,                                                                                        thought fit the
                                                                                                                                    it,
K. Soc. should first be made acquainted with  which gave them two or three dayes entertainment, wch they

were pleased to like." Original, in the Ballard Collection, ut supra.
                   <( NATURAL HISTORY OF WILTSHIRE."                                                    93

Montgomerie, Lord Herbert of Caerdiffe, one of the Privy Councill to their

Majesties, President of the Royall Societie, &c, my singular good Lord."

   The history of this manuscript is narrated in the preface, which commences with

a kind of apology for the work, as a novelty in literature. In this Aubrey says
that, " 'Till about the year 1649, when Experimental Philosophy was first cultivated

by a Club at Oxford, it was held a strange Presumption for a man to attempt an

Innovation in Learning, and not to be good manners to be more knowing than his

INeighbours and Forefathers.  was from my childhood affected with the view of

things rare, which is the beginning of Philosophy ; and though I have not had

leisure to make any considerable proficiency in                         I I it,yet was carried on with
                                                                                 I         a
                                                                                                        a
J^ impulse to undertake this TaskeI;   knew not why, unless for my owne
                                    I
private pleasure; Credit there was none, for  it                        getts the ^TM£ of  man's

neighbours. But could not rest quiet till had obeyed this secret call. Mr.
   it *                                I

              'I
Camden, Dr. Plott, and Mr. Wood confess the same.
                                              '                                  am the first that ever made
                                                  e

an Essay of this kind for Wiltshire, and (for ought know) in the nation having
                                                                                           ;I ;
begun A° 1656. In the year 1675 became acquainted with Dr. Robert Plott,                          I

who had then his Natural Historie of Oxfordshire upon the Loome, which seeing

he did perform so excellently well, desired him to undertake Wiltshire and

would give him all my papers, as did also my papers of Surrey as to the naturall
                              :I

                                                                     :
things, and offer'd my farther assistance. But he was then invited into Stafford

shire, to illustrate that Countie which having finished in December 1684,                  I

importuned him againe to undertake this county but he replied, He was so taken

up in the Musaeum Ashmoleanum, that he should meddle no more in that kind

(unlesse were for his native countie of Kent), and therefore wish'd me to finish
   is it

           I
and publish what had begun. Considering therefore that                           iIf  should not doe this

myselfe, my papers might either perish, or be sold in an auction, and somebody

else (as not uncommon) put his name to my paines and not knowing any one
that would undertake this Designe while live have tumultuarily stitch'd up what
                              I        is, ;I
                                    I                       ;
I  have many years since collected, being chiefly but the observation of my frequent

road between South and North Wilts (that between Broad Chalke and Easton-

Piers). If had had then leisure would willingly have searched the naturals of
   I
                              now fifteen yeares since left this country, and have at
                It

                          is
the whole County.                                I
94 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Ithis distance inserted such additions as can call to mind ; so that methinks this

description is like a picture that Mr. Edwd Bathurst, B.D., of Trin. Coll. Oxon.,

drew of Dr. Kettle, some yeares after his death, by strength of memory only ; he

had so strong an Idea of him, and it did well resemble him. I hope hereafter it

may be an incitement to some ingeniouse and public-spirited young Wiltshire man,

Ito polish and compleat what I have here delivered rough-hewen, for have not

leasure to heighten my stile."* This is dated " London, Gresham College, June

6, 1685."

   The work is divided into chapters, with the following titles : 1. Air. -- 2. Springs
Medicinall. -- 3. Rivers. -- 4. Earthes. -- 5. Mineralls. --6. Stones. -- 7. Formed Stones.
--8. A Digression, ad mentem Mr. R. Hook, R.S.S. -- 9. Plantes (Herbes, Trees).
-- 10. Beastes. -- 11. Fishes.-- 12. Birds. -- 13. Insects and Reptiles. -- 14. Men and
Women. -- 15. Arts, Inventions. -- 16. Architecture. -- 17- Of the Grandure of the
Herberts, Earles of Pembroke --Learned men who received pensions from those
Earles --Wilton House and Garden.-- 18. Worthies (Writers and Illustrious Men).
-- 19. Agriculture and Implements. --20. The Downes.-- 21. Shepherds and Pasto-
ralls.-- 22. Sheep and Wooll. -- 23. The History of Cloathing and Cloathiers of Wilts.
-- 24. Faires and Markets, their rise and decay. --25. Prices of Corne. --26. Weights
and Measures. -- 27- Accidents. --28. Observations on some Register Books, as also
the Poores Rates and Taxes of the County, ad mentem D1" W. Petty. --29. Diseases
and Cures. -- 30. Antiquities and Coines.-- 31. Sports and Races. --32. Things Prae-
turnatural, e. g. Witchcraft, Phantomes, &c. -- 33. Draughts of the Seats and
Prospects.-- 34. Forests, Parkes, Chaces. -- 35. Falling of Rents. -- 36. Number of
Attornies every 30 yeares since H. VIII.

   Of these subjects, the first 14, --with the 28th and 29th, --are contained in the first

volume ; the remainder being carried forward to the second, though with a some

what different arrangement. Thus chapters 25, 26, 30, 32, and 34, are omitted

altogether ; and the following new chapters are added :-- Local Fatality. --Hawkes
and Hawking. -- Of Gardens (Lavington Garden, Chelsea Garden, &c.)

    One of Ray's original letters to Aubrey, approving of the work, is inserted in the
first volume. It is the same which contains the gentle reproof of the latter's credu-

                                                * Original, in the Ashmolean Museum.
a NATURAL HISTORY OP WILTSHIRE."                                                              95

lity quoted in page 5, and has been printed in the fifth volume of Aubrey's History

of Surrey, p. 408.* The remarks of the author are not confined to Wiltshire; but
are apparently derived from personal observations made in different counties. A

few dried botanical specimens are preserved in the chapter on Plants, with Aubrey's
notes of their locality and date, and other MS. notes, by Ray. Annexed to the

chapter on Fishes, and carefully folded up in a small piece of paper, is the " bone found

in the head of a carp : a good medicine for the apoplectick, or falling sickness."

A pamphlet and three Gazettes, containing accounts of different Earthquakes ; A
manuscript " Explication of the heat of the Waters of Bath," (By Edw. Jorden, of
Bath, and Mons. Nich. L'Emery, Chymist,) and a small printed " Treatise on Wool,"

(a presentation copy to Aubrey from the author, George Clark,) are inserted in

appropriate places. There are several memoranda by Aubrey alluding to his gifts

of " petrified shells," " naturall iron bullets," &c. to the Royal Society, and to the
Ashmolean Museum. In the seventh chapter he mentions " a Turkey stone ring "

which he gave to Robert Boyle, Esq., describing the variations of its nebulae ; under

the head of Men and Women there are some marvellous stories of longevity, and

of monstrous births ; under Diseases and Cures, some very absurd prescriptions ; and

under Parish Registers, several curious extracts from those of Broad Chalk, Wiltshire,
" according to the way prescribed by the Honble Sir Wm Petty, Knight." The
eighth chapter, which is termed A Digression, is " an Hypothesis of the Terrestrial

Globe." Ray expressed an unfavourable opinion of this " Digression," which he

thought might be very well left out. The following sentences exemplify the writer's

notions : " The earth we now do inhabit is rough and uneven, and appears to have been

ye ruines of an old one. As the world was torn by earthquakes, as also the vaulture

by time foundered and fell in, so the water subsided, and the dry land appear'd.
Then why might not that change alter ye center of gravity of ye earth ? Before this
the pole of the Ecliptick perhaps was the pole of the world. Now (1691) Mr.
Edmund Halley, R.S.S. hath an hypothesis that the World is only about 500 miles

                                        wch causes the variation of the needle
a
                                    it,

                                                                                                                                  ii.
                                                                                                                                        p.

                                                                                                                                                            :
thick, and that a Terella moves within

and in the center Sun." In the same chapter the author says, " On St. Andrew's

* Other epistles from Ray respecting this MS. are printed in Letters from the Bodleian, vol.  158--164.
96 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Day, 1666, my Lord Brouncker, Mr. Wyld, Dr. Charlton, and I, riding in a coach
towards Gresham Colledge, (the Anniversary Day,) at ye corner of Holborn Bridge,
a cellar of coals was opened by the labourers (who digged ye rubbish and founda
tions), and there were burning coals (which we saw) which burnt ever since the
Great Fire ; but being pent so close from air, there was very little waste."* In chap.
17, which illustrates "the grandeur of the Pembroke family," and describes their
splendid seat at Wilton, is the following passage ; which is here quoted as a matter
of curiosity, throwing a doubt (as it does) upon the authorship of one of the most
celebrated verses of the seventeenth century.

                                                            " Underneath this sable hearsea          ;
                                                                Lies the subject of all verse,is,
                                                                                                        a
                                                  Sidney's sister -- Pembroke's mother.;
                                        ;
                                                                Death, ere thou kill'st such another,
                                                                Fair, and wise, and learn'd as she,a
                                                                Time will throw a dart at thee."a

       " These verses were made by Mr. Willia Browne who wrote the Pastoralls, and

 they are inserted there."

      The above lines are almost universally attributed to Ben Jonson : it is therefore

   essential to observe that Aubrey is not alone in stating them to be by Browne, the
   author of the Pastorals ; for, in his note upon the subject, he left a blank for the
   latter's Christian name, " William ; " which was filled up by Evelyn when he perused

    the manuscript. Indeed, Evelyn not only filled up such blank, but added, as a

   further note, " William, Governor to ye now E. of Oxford."
      As " Advice to the Painter or Graver," there at the end of the work, list of

    the illustrations Aubrey appears to have thought most desirable. Besides his own

   portrait after Loggan, he proposed to have "Mappe" of Salisbury, with exterior
   and interior views of the Cathedral Views of Malmesbury Abbey Church " Priory
   St. Maries, juxta Kington St. Michael " and, among " Houses of lesser note," " The

    Mannour-house of Kington St. Michael." Amongst the prospects, he desired to have

   one " from the Garret at Easton-Piers, South-east, delicate prospect." " If these
   views," he says, " were well donn, they would make glorious Volume by itselfe,

   * This memorable conflagration  continued from the 2nd to the 6th of September.  St. Andrew's Day       is
the 30th of November.
" HISTORY OF SURREY."  97

and like enough it might take well in the World. It were an inconsiderable charge

to these Persons of Gtualitie : and it would remaine to Posterity, when their Families
are gonn, and their Buildings ruin'd by time, or Fire, as we have seen that stupen
dous Fabrick of Paul's Church, not a stone left on a stone, and lives now onely in

IMr Hollar's Etchings in Sr William Dugdale's History of Paul's. am not displeased

with this Thought as a Desideratum, but I doe never expect to see it donn : so few

men have the hearts to doe publique good : to give 3, 4, or bli. for a Copper Plate."

There are about three hundred pages in the first volume, and three hundred and

twenty in the second.
   The Royal Society's copy of the " Natural History of Wiltshire" appears to be a

close transcript of the original. The two parts are bound as one volume ; and there

is inserted, at p. 260, a MS. copy of a " Survey of our Lady Church at Salisbury taken
by Dr Christopher Wren (since Sir Christopher), Anno Domini, 1669, being invited
down to do it by Seth Ward, Lord Bishop of Sarum." Mr. Halliwell, in his " Cata
logue of the Miscellaneous MSS. in the Library of the Royal Society," (8vo. 1840,)
states that " this work is in course of publication, under the able editorship of

Sir Thomas Phillipps, Bart.," thus committing the error of previous writers, by con

founding the manuscript now referred to with the Description of North Wiltshire,

 already noticed.

   It is hoped and expected that the Wiltshire Topographical Society will
publish the " Natural History," as a companion to the present memoir.

IV. "Perambulation of halfe the County of Surrey, fol." [In the

   Ashmolean Museum!]

   The circumstances attending the production of Aubrey's Perambulation, or His
tory of Surrey, have been already mentioned, (vide pp. 49, 64,) and the work itself,

as printed under the care of Dr. Rawlinson, in five vols. 8vo., 1719, though now
scarce, is in many public and private libraries.

   The manuscript in the Ashmolean Museum does not appear to contain the

                                                                                                                                    o
98 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

whole of the work, but comprises about one hundred and eighty leaves of paper,
(foolscap folio, stitched,) written on one side only, with occasional corrections on

the opposite pages. It contains many notes by Evelyn, and the original of his
letter to Aubrey, which is given in the printed work. There is also a dedi
cation to "the Honourable and Vertuous Charles Howard of Norfolk, and the
Honoured and Vertuous John Evelyn, of Deptford, Esquire," also many slight draw
ings, by the author, of the principal seats in the county, armorial bearings, &c. In
Manning and Bray's History of Surrey, vol. iii. p. 685, Aubrey's perambulation is
spoken of with respect. The authors state that, " by his labours, many monumental

inscriptions have been preserved, which have since been destroyed. Although his
copies are by no means exact as to spelling, his dates are seldom found to be incorrect."

    In Gough's British Topography, (vol. ii. p. 262,) Granger is quoted, to the effect
that another edition of the History of Surrey was published in 1723 ; and Worrall,
in Bibliotheca Topographica Anglicana, mentions an edition in 1723, with only anew
title. In Lowndes's Bibliographer's Manual copies of the work are said to have
realized the following prices : " Sotheby, Morocco, £7. 12*. 6d., Sir P. Thomp
son £9. 16*. 6d., Dent, Russia, £19. 5* Od., Towneley, Russia, £26. 5*. Od., Nassau
£26. 15*. 6d., Beckford, 1817, Morocco, £29. 8*. Od" According to Worrall it was
published at £1 5*. Od.

                                    V. " Miscellanea, fol."
   This manuscript is not in the Ashmolean Museum, nor am I able to give any
account of it. It may be supposed to have contained materials for Aubrey's Mis

 cellanies, which will be noticed in a future page.
                       VI. " Lives, 3 parts

                     VII. Mr Th. Hobbes' Life in English.

    These are the works by which Aubrey is best known to the public : a full
 account of the circumstances under which they were written has been already
 given. It is evident on comparing these manuscripts with Wood's Athena Oxonienses
 that several of the lives printed in the latter were compiled from materials collected
eeLIVES OF EMINENT MEN."  99

by Aubrey ; but Wood made many additions and corrections to them, as may be

seen by collating his notice of James Harrington with that written by Aubrey, and
printed ante, p. 35 --37.

   Neither Rawlinson nor Gough, in their remarks respecting Aubrey, took any
notice of the Lives. It is said that Granger, in his Biographical History of England,
(1769), acknowledged his obligations to them for several anecdotes ; and that Lysons

used them in his Environs of London, (1791).*
   The Aubrey manuscripts, and especially the Lives of Eminent Men, attracted a

great degree of attention from some of the most eminent literati towards the latter
part of the last century, and led indeed to controversy and differences of opinion, the
history of which would form a curious chapter in the literary annals of the country.

   Thomas Warton, the historian of English poetry, as a Fellow of Trinity College,
Oxford, and a true lover of antiquities, devoted much of his time and attention to
the preparation of the Life and Literary Remains of Ralph Bathurst, D.D., which
he published in one volume 8vo., in 1761. Bathurst had been a contemporary and
intimate friend of Aubrey, and was President of the college to which they both

belonged, from 1664 to 1704.

   From the Memoir of Aubrey by Dr. Rawlinson, from Hearne's edition of Anthony
a Wood's Life, and from the Biographia Britannica, Warton necessarily derived a
general knowledge of the talents and the labours of Aubrey ; and in the pursuit
of inquiries for his Memoir of Bathurst, the Ashmoleam Museum afforded him

an obvious source for material information and assistance. There he consulted with

great advantage the manuscript collections so often referred to. In the preface to

his memoir, after adverting to other libraries whence he had obtained aid, Warton

remarks, " But I found much greater assistance from Aubrey's Collection of Letters,

in the Ashmolean Museum, containing a correspondence between the most learned

of Dr. Bathurst's contemporaries." Those letters (respecting which see Article XIX.

p. 118) are repeatedly quoted by Warton, who also refers, in this volume, to other
portions of the manuscripts. Amongst these, Aubrey's notices of Bathurst, and

      * See Caulfield's Inquiry into the conduct of Malone, --a pamphlet fully noticed hereafter, p. 103.
100 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

his memoir of Dr. Kettle, also a president of Trinity College, necessarily called

for special notice from the biographer of the former. The Life of Hobbes, too,

as containing anecdotes of Bathurst, is alluded to ; and the Lives, generally, are

described by Warton (p. 153, note) as "An account of English Writers, especially

our Poets, with many of whom Aubrey was intimately acquainted, containing
several new and curious anecdotes of their lives." He proceeds to state, from
personal examination of the work, that it was lent by the author to Anthony a

Wood, whose obligations to it he describes, adding the Lives of Spenser and of
Shakspere, " as a specimen" of the manuscript. A letter from Bathurst to Aubrey,

commending his Monumenta Britannica, induces Warton to advert to that work ;
of which, however, it appears his only knowledge was derived from the printed

account by Dr. Rawlinson. It may be observed that Warton refers to the papers
with scrupulous minuteness ; for instance, " Aubrey's MSS. Lives, Mus. Ashmol.
Part I, No. 10, folio, p. 36, Cod. Ashmol." " Collection of Original Letters, MSS.
 Mus. Ashmol. No. 15, folio. In Ashmole's Study, vol. i." &c.

    In 1780, Warton published a Life of Sir Thomas Pope, the founder of Trinity

 College (8vo.), wherein he again refers, incidentally, to the Lives, and especially to

 that of Dr. Kettle. At page 185, he gives quotations from " Sir Thomas Pope's bre
 viary --written and illuminated-- given by John Aubrey, the antiquarian, to the Ash-
 molean Museum." (vide the present Memoir, ante, p. 83). He adds, on the authority
 of a " Letter to Wood," in the Ballard volume already frequently quoted in this
 memoir, that " Aubrey had intended to place this breviary in its proper repository,

 Trinity College Library ; but, having conceived some prejudice against Dr. Bathurst,
 the president, he changed his design, and gave it to the Ashmolean Museum."

     In conjunction with William Huddesford, also a Fellow of Trinity College, and
 then keeper of the Ashmolean Museum, Warton published, in 1772, a new edition of

  Anthony a Wood's Life, together with Memoirs of Leland and Hearne ; and, in a
 note to the first of these, they appended a list of Aubrey's manuscripts in the
  museum ; but it is remarkable that they entirely omitted to notice in that list the
  Lives of Eminent Men.
                               "lives of eminent men."                                           101

   Dr. Farmer, in his Essay on the Learning of Shakespeare (8vo. 176/), thus
mentions Aubrey's Lives : " The celebrated Mr Warton in his Life of Dr Bathurst
hath favoured us with some hearsay particulars concerning Shakespeare, from a MS.

of Aubrey's which had been in the hands of Wood, and I ought not to suppress
them, as the last seems to make against my doctrine.* They came originally, I
find, on consulting the MS., from one Mr Beeston,-f- and I am sure Mr Warton, whom
I have the honour to call my friend, will be in no pain about their credit." (p. 36)

Farmer then quotes Aubrey's notice of Shakspere, and partially refutes it ; adding,

" It is therefore sufficiently clear that poor Antony a Wood had too much reason for

his character of Aubrey."

   The biographical writings of Aubrey in the next place attracted the attention of
Malone ; who, in the course of his task as an editor and commentator on Shakspere,

derived much curious information from the papers of the old topographer and
antiquary. Some passages in the first part of vol. i. of Malone's edition of Shaks-
peare (8vo. 1790),J shew that when that was printed his knowledge of the Aubrey
manuscripts was limited to the facts previously made public ; but it is evident
that, before issuing the second part of the same volume, he had made some imme

diate use of the originals ; though still (there is reason to believe) not from per
sonal examination, but merely by extracts, furnished by Warton, with whom he was

on friendly terms. " Since my remarks," says Malone, " on the epitaph said to have

been made by Shakspeare on John O'Combe, were printed, it occurred to me that the

manuscript papers of Mr. Aubrey, preserved in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford,

might throw some light on that subject."§ He then gives a short but circumstantial
account of Aubrey's life and writings ; together with the favourable opinions of

his literary merits, which have been quoted in p. 6 of the preceding Memoir.
He proceeds as follows :--" The anecdotes concerning D' Avenant, in Wood's Athena

* Farmer's theory was that Shakspere did not receive the advantages of a classical education,    (not

f This is an error on the part of Farmer. Aubrey derived certain information respecting Spenser

Shakspere), from Mr. Beeston.

X Notes to Howe's Life in Malone's Shakspeare, vol. i. part i. pp. 160, 164.     ii.      166.
§ Historical Account of the English Stage, in Malone's Shakspeare, vol. i. part       p.
102 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Oxonienses, were, like the copious and accurate account of Milton, transcribed lite
rally from Aubrey's papers. What has been there suggested [that D'Avenant was
Shakspere's son] is confirmed by a subsequent passage in the MS., which has been
imperfectly obliterated, and which Wood did not print ; though, in one of his own
unpublished manuscripts, now in the Bodleian Library, he has himself told the same
story. The line which is imperfectly obliterated, in a different ink, and therefore
probably by another hand than that of Aubrey, tells us (as Mr. Warton, who has
been able to trace the words through the obliteration, informs me) that D'Avenant
was Shakspeare's son." Malone, a few pages onward, prints what he calls "an
exact transcript of the whole article [by Aubrey] relating to Shakspeare, from the
original;" and this, which is given more accurately than it had previously been by
Warton and Farmer, is accompanied by nine pages of critical commentary upon
Aubrey's anecdotes. Indeed, it is evident that this editor of Shakspere fairly and
fully appreciated Aubrey's industry and his accuracy of record.

   In page 269, Malone makes the following additional remarks respecting
DAvenant :--" I have mentioned in a preceding page," he says, " that the account
given of him by Wood was taken from Mr. Aubrey's MS. Since that sheet was
printed Mr. Warton has obligingly furnished me with an exact transcript of the
article relating to D'Avenant,* which, as it contains some particulars not noticed by
Wood, I shall here subjoin." Yet it is remarkable that in the transcript which

follows, the "imperfectly obliterated" passages, so ingeniously observed by Warton,
are not given.

    Soon after the appearance of Malone's edition of Shakspere the literary world was
agitated by the famous discussion respecting the Ireland forgeries ;-f- and this led to

* There is no doubt that the " exact transcript" of the memoir of Shakspere, previously given by Malone,

was also supplied by his friend Warton. Mr. Charles Knight, in his recent Biography of Shakspere, notices

the traditionary account of him by Aubrey, and endeavours to reconcile some of its statements with the few

facts which have been satisfactorily ascertained.  Henry Ireland, junior, and promulgated  with so much

  f The original documents prepared by William

temporary success, together with his own manuscript "Confession" of the whole course of his deceptions,

are in the possession of Lewis Pocock, Esquire, F.S.A. London.
                                            103

Malone's able " Inquiry into the authenticity of certain papers and instruments
attributed to Shakspeare," which was printed in 8vo. in 1796. By this we find that
subsequently to the publication of his " Shakspeare" Malone had examined Aubrey's

manuscripts, which appear to have been previously known to him only through other
sources. In page 200, he says, " Of the whole of Aubrey's biographical collec

tions, deposited in the Ashmolean Museum, I made a transcript last summer, which

will hereafter be laid before the publick ;" and in an appendix, he quotes, " from a
paper entitled Nouvelles* MS. Aubrey in Mus. Ashmol.," a short notice of the Penny
Post, and an account of the " Bank of Credit at Devonshire House, Bishopsgate Street."
The last was projected in the seventeenth century, and, though unsuccessful, led,

about eleven years afterwards, to the establishment of the Bank of England.

    Further proof that Malone made extracts personally from the Aubrey papers about

this period is afforded by a pamphlet written by James Caulfield, a London print-
seller, who had been attracted to the same curious materials with a view to pecuniary
profit. Caulfield's pamphlet likewise appeared in 1796, and was called "An Inquiry
into the conduct of Edmond Malone, Esq., concerning the Manuscript papers of John

Aubrey, F.R.S., in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. London : Printed for J. Caul-

field, No. 11, Old Compton-street, Soho." 8vo. pp. 19. The author, who produced
some volumes of curious biographies, with portraits, states that about the year 1788

his attention was directed to the manuscript of the Lives of Eminent Men, which he
intended to have printed ; but he did not examine it personally till 1 796, when, by the

permission of Charles Lloyd, Esq. then Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum, he copied
some of the memoirs. After his return to London, Caulfield " wrote to Oxford to

obtain a copy of the fine Drawing by Faithorne of John Aubrey, which he proposed
to prefix to the work. But in the course of Engraving this portrait, he understood
 Mr Malone was occupied on the same plan with himself." He accordingly had an

 interview with him, wherein, as is evident from Caulfield's narrative, much jealously

 was mutually shown ; and, having failed to effect any compromise with Malone, by

    * This is not in the Ashmolean Museum.  It will be seen that a chapter of Aubrey s Monumenta Bri-
tannica bore the title of Nouvelles.
104 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

which either party should abandon his project, the speculating bookseller " indus

triously applied himself to the work, and made a contract with an able artist, to
furnish him with a considerable quantity of drawings ; which he gave into the hands
of celebrated Engravers. These plates on an average could not be finished under
twelve guineas each." When five of them were completed, Caulfield learnt that

Malone was endeavouring to do him " an irreparable injury, by using his interest at

Oxford to stop his pursuit in gaining the manuscript complete : consequently to
leave him at a considerable expence, in the midst of a heavy undertaking."* His
intended publication was, notwithstanding, announced to appear in quarto numbers,

with the title of "The Oxford Cabinet, or Aubrean Miscellany;" but on going once
more to Oxford, before any portion of it was published, he was informed, " to his
inexpressible surprise, that, in consequence of a letter from Mr Malone to the Keeper,
the MSS. were no longer to be consulted ; particularly however excluding him : and

the only answer he could obtain from Mr Lake, the deputy keeper, was they were
carefully locked up, and no longer in his power to shew to any person whatever."
Upon .this Caulfield immediately wrote to Malone, complaining of the injury

inflicted on him, inquiring his motive for doing him " so wilful a prejudice," and
threatening to publish a statement of the facts. " To this letter Mr Malone sent a
verbal message down by his servant, stating that it required no answer ;" whereupon
the Inquiry was printed. Caulfield indignantly disputes the right of Malone to the
exclusive use of Aubrey's papers ; shows that he was not the Jirst who had referred
to them for literary purposes ; and incidentally states that " Mr Seward had con

templated using them, but, out of courtesy to Malone, with whom he was personally
intimate, had relinquished such intention." He complains that his rival had great

facilities afforded him, the papers being " removed to his house from the museum ;"

    * Shortly before this Caulfield had again seeu the manuscript, and observed, on the wrapper of the second
part, the following inscription, in Malone's hand-writing : " These fragments collected and arranged by E. M.
1792." The fragments in question are the remnants of the volume which (so greatly to the vexation of
Aubrey) was mutilated by Anthony a Wood : they remain as they were arranged by Malone. Now the above
inscription shows that the latter had seen the manuscript four years prior to Caulfield, who took pains to
show that he had contemplated printing it as early as 1788.
"lives of eminent men."                                             105

and finally makes a severe allusion to Malone's " big, bloated pride," and challenges

a contradiction to his statements.

Malone, however, seems to have treated with silent contempt the complaints and

threatenings of Caulfield, who, acting upon his engagement to proceed with such

materials as he possessed, published the first part of his work, with the following full

title : " The Oxford Cabinet ; consisting of Engravings from Original Pictures in

the Ashmolean Museum, and other public and private collections ; with Biographical
Anecdotes, by John Aubrey, F.R.S. and other celebrated writers. London. Printed
for James Caulfield, William Street, Adelphi, 1797." Of the six numbers pro
mised, only two were published. These contain ten of Aubrey's biographical

notices, including that of his ancestor, Dr. William Aubrey, which is accompanied
by a portrait of him ; also others of John Aubrey, and of the Tradescant

family, &c. ; making in all nine prints, and a few woodcuts.     The book has

neither preface nor introduction : it is very scarce, as is also the Inquiry, above

quoted ; but copies of each may be consulted in the Royal Library of the British

Museum. They were both very unfavorably criticised in the Gentleman s Magazine,

for 1797-8.

   Aubrey is again referred to by Malone in his edition of Dryden's Miscellaneous
Prose Works (4 vols. 8vo., 1800). He states that Dryden's " Eleanora, a Panegyrical
Poem," (published in 1692,) was written, as maybe inferred from its dedication, at

the request of the first Earl of Abingdon, in praise of his deceased Countess, grand
daughter of Sir John Danvers, the regicide. " It is a singular circumstance," says
Malone, " that our author should have written this poem at the desire of a

nobleman with whom he was not personally acquainted, in praise of a lady whom

he never saw. This however was evidently a task undertaken for a pecuniary
reward; and the commission perhaps was procured by Mr. Aubrey, a common
friend of our author and the Earl of Abingdon." * He does not appear to have

been aware that Aubrey was related to the family of Danvers.     in collecting
   Until his death, in 1812, Malone continued actively employed

materials for the illustration of Shakspere; and with that view he employed

* Dryden's Miscellaneous Prose Works by Malone, vol. iv. p. 57.

                                                                 P
106 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Bartolozzi, as already mentioned, to engrave the portrait of John Aubrey, whose writ
ings the commentator evidently held in high esteem. His collections were arranged
by his executor and friend James Boswell, for the edition of Shakspere, published
in 1822, in 21 volumes, 8vo. Most of the remarks given by Malone in his own
edition, on topics connected with the names of Shakspere, D'Avenant, and Aubrey,
were repeated in that of Boswell, though his improved arrangement of the matter
led to their transposition in various ways. Malone's assumption that John Shak

spere, the poet's father, was a glover, had led him, after publishing his previous
remarks, to a further examination of the Lives of Eminent Men, and to the following

judicious remarks on the value of Aubrey's testimony : " If the representation

attempted to be given of this ingenious and unfortunate gentleman were just
and well founded ; if it were true that every one who is weak in one place must
necessarily be weak in all ; that all those persons who in the last century were
idle enough to put their faith in judicial astrology, and to give credit to stories
of preternatural appearances of the dead, were fools ; and their judgment or tes
timony of no value on any subject whatever, however unconnected with these
weaknesses; then, in this large list of ninnies, must we class, with Mr. Aubrey,
the accomplished and literate Charles the First; the grave and judicious Clarendon ;
the witty Duke of Buckingham ; the fertile and ingenious Dryden ; and many
other names of equal celebrity :--they must all ' bench by his side,' and must
be set down as persons not capable of forming a true judgment on any matter
whatsoever presented to them, and wholly unworthy of credit." * In the third
volume of Boswell's edition (p. 278) Aubrey's account of D'Avenant is repeated ; and
there the " imperfectly obliterated" line, which had been traced by Warton more
than twenty years before, was for the first time made public. It runs thus, -- " Now
by the way his mother had a very light report. In those days she was called a
trader." There is also the following passage which Malone has not printed in his

own edition : --" I have heard Parson Robert [D'Avenant's brother] say that Mr.
William Shakespeare has given him a hundred kisses." It is remarkable that these

particular erasures (for both passages are struck through with a pen in the original)

                                                * Boswell's edition of Shakspeare, vol. ii. p. 70.
"lives of eminent men."                         107

have very recently attracted the attention of Mr. J. O. Halliwell ; who, not being

aware of the notice they had received from Warton and Malone, has recorded the

omitted words as new and interesting contributions to the history of Shakspere,

"which had hitherto escaped the researches of all the biographers of our great

dramatist." " During a recent visit to Oxford," he says, " I had the curiosity to

inspect the original manuscript, and found that two paragraphs, scratched through,

but not with a contemporary pen, had escaped notice. By the aid of a strong light,

Iand a powerful magnifying glass, was enabled to read them entirely, with the

exception of a few letters." Mr. HalliwelTs version is not literally the same as
Malone's ; but he states that " Mr. Kirtland, Assistant Keeper of the Ashmolean

Museum, who is deeply skilled in palaeography,  agreed with me in my reading of
the blotted passages." *

   In 1813 nearly the whole of Aubrey's Lives of Eminent Men were published in

a very amusing and interesting work edited by the Rev. Dr. Bliss and the late Rev. J.

Walker, of Oxford. This was originally intended to consist chiefly of letters by

distinguished literary men of the seventeenth century, preserved in the Bodleian

Library ; whence it is familiarly known as Letters from the Bodleian (paged as 2,

but bound in 3 vols. 8vo., see ante, p. 2). It contains one hundred and sixty-two

letters from that extensive library, with the following appendices : No. 1 . Eight

Letters from the Ashmolean Museum (six of which were addressed to Aubrey) ;

Nos. 2 and 3. Accounts of Hearne's Journies to Whaddon Hall and to Reading,

from his MS. Diaries ; No. 4. The Lives of Eminent Men, by John Aubrey; and
No. 5. His Life of Thomas Uobbes. One hundred and thirty of Aubrey's Lives are

thus printed ; and the appendix No. 4. consequently embraces one-half of the work.
In their preface the editors say, " The object has been to give these Lives verbatim,

without correction or addition. That they possess a claim to the title of literary

curiosities, will readily be allowed, since there is scarcely a Life without some

anecdote hitherto unpublished ; and the author's description of the personal

   * Halliwell's Essay on the Character of Sir John Falstaff, as originally exhibited by Shakespeare, in
the two parts of King Henry IV. 12mo. 1841, pp. 47--50.
       108 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

      appearance, and domestic habits, of most of the individuals of whom he writes, is

       singularly interesting."

         William Godwin published in 1815 a quarto volume of the Lives of Edward and
      John Phillips, Nephews and Pupils of Milton, wherein he gives entire Aubrey's
      account of Milton, from these Lives, admitting it to be " undoubtedly of consider
      able value and authenticity," but at the same time remarking that it is, " to a certain
      degree, stamped with the coldness of a by-stander or clerk of the court," whilst the
      memoir of the poet by Edward Phillips is " a monument of sober affection and
      veneration." This is perhaps hardly just to the merits of the article referred 'to ;
      the accuracy of which received a singular confirmation in 1823. In that year the

       late Robert Lemon, the Deputy-Keeper of the State-Paper Office, discovered
      in that establishment the manuscript of a work by Milton, before unknown, except

      from a notice of it by Aubrey, who described it as " Idea Theologiae, in manuscript,
      in the hands of Mr. Skinner, a merchant's sonne, in Mark Lane." There are papers

       in the same office tending to show that it passed there directly from Daniel Skinner,
      the person alluded to by Aubrey ; in consequence of prohibition, on the part of the

      Government of 1676, against its being published. A full analysis of the manu
      script, with its history, and Aubrey's statements on the subject, will be found in

       Todd's edition of Milton's Poetical Works, 8vo., vol. i. p. 184, 1842.*
          Aubrey's account of Ben Jonson has been much underrated by Gifford, in his

      biographical notice of that poet. The latter says, that " whoever expects a rational

y ...account of any fact, however trite, from Aubrey, will meet with disappointment.
                   In short, Aubrey thought little, believed much, and confused everything."-f-
      Aubrey's statement that Jonson was tutor to Sir Walter Raleigh's son, was disputed

       by Gifford, but has been confirmed, by the complete copy of Jonson's Conver
      sations :% and, although the antiquary's assertion (on the authority of Sir Ed-

           * Bishop Burgess read an elaborate and learned paper on the subject before the Royal Society of Literature,
          t The Works of Ben Jonson ; with Notes, and a Biographical Memoir, by W. Gifford. (9 vols. 8vo.
         1816.) Vol. i. p. xix.

       J Published in 1842 by the Shakspere Society, under the Editorship of David Lain*?, Esq.
Cl LIVES OF EMINENT MEN."  109

ward Sherburne) that the poet "killed Mr. Marlow, on Bun-hill, comeing from
the Green Curtain play-house," is incorrect ; yet it has been ascertained by Mr.
Collier, that Ben Jonson really killed Gabriel Spencer, the player, in a duel in a
field, near Hoxton ;--a fact which probably led to the erroneous information given
to Aubrey. Indeed there is generally a great deal of truth in everything the latter
says ; and there can be no doubt that as our knowledge of the matters he alludes
to is extended, many of his statements, which now appear to rest on slight or
insufficient grounds, will be corroborated.

   Gifford further says, " Aubrey's authority is seldom to be relied on ; a greater

blunderer never existed ; as Wood himself discovered when too late : he calls him
a ' roving, maggotty-pated man,' and such he truly was."

   Those who have perused Gifford's Auto-biography, in his translation of Juvenal's

Satires, would expect more liberality of sentiment and courtesy of language than are
to be found in these harsh and overbearing comments on Aubrey ; but, from the long
continued exercise of the critical pen in the prejudiced career of political and reli
gious partizanship, the writer's mind became callous and intolerant. Besides, it is
quite evident that Gifford had not examined the valuable manuscript collections of
Aubrey. Every discriminating reader of the foregoing pages will be enabled to
appreciate the injustice of the language used by the editor of Jonson's works.

   With respect to Aubrey's memoirs generally, it is unnecessary to use the language
of commendation, as the important addition which they form to our knowledge of
the persons and events referred to is already fully acknowledged. The care taken
by the author to ensure accuracy in his statements, and to record the names of his
informants, in all cases where he does not speak from his own knowledge, stamp

them with a high degree of authenticity.
    Among the most curious and interesting memoirs may be particularized the

notices of the author's ancestor, Dr. William Aubrey ; of Dr. Kettle, Oughtred,
Sir William D'Avenant, Lord Bacon, Sir John Denham (with whom he was very
intimate), Sir Kenelm Digby and Lady Venetia Stanley, Sir John Suckling, Dr.
Wallis, Francis Potter, Selden, General Monk, Ben Jonson, Milton, and, notwith

standing its supposed inaccuracies, Shakspere.
110 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

   The original manuscript of the Lives of Eminent Men consists of three parts,

foolscap folio. The second (mutilated by Wood, and arranged by Malone,) has
about twenty leaves only, whereas the others are of considerable bulk. There are
indexes by Aubrey to the first and third parts, and there appears to be several
lives not yet published, though they are certainly of minor character. The
desultory manner in which Aubrey put his materials together is shown by inter
lineations, corrections, and additions, in almost every page of the manuscript.

   The Life of Hobbes, which is a separate manuscript, has been fully mentioned
in a previous page, 54. It formed the Appendix No. 5 to the Letters from the
Bodleian, and is there very accurately given from the original. It is a valuable
memoir, and is repeatedly quoted with commendation by Disraeli in his Quarrels of
Authors, vol. iii.

VIII. "An Apparatus of the Lives of English Mathematicians. A Qr at

   Gresham Colledge." [7m the Ashmolean Museum.']

    These lives occupy sixteen leaves, foolscap folio, written on one side only,
and paged by the author. They are stitched together, and fastened inside the
cover of part iii. of the Lives of Eminent Men, with the following title : " An
Apparatus for the Lives of our English Mathematical Writers. By Mr Jo. Aubrey,
R.S.S. March 25th, 1690." Two printed books on arithmetic (of about the reign
of Henry VIII.,) are noticed in this manuscript; which contains memoranda for
the Lives of Dr. Record, James Peele, Leonard Digges, Thomas Digges, Cyprian
Lucar, Edmund Gunter, Richard Norwood, John Wells, Thomas Merry, Edward
Wright, Henry Coley, and Thomas Streete.

IX. "Idea of Education of Young Gentlemen from 9 to 18, fol. The

    CORRECT COPIE IS Wtb ANTHONY HeNLEY, ESQr AT Ye GRANGE IN HAMP

   SHIRE." [In the Ashmolean Museum.]
   This manuscript was correctly mentioned by Warton and Huddesford as an Idea
of Education of Young Gentlemen ; but it is most inaccurately named by Chalmers,
                                   a IDEA OF EDUCATION."                                                 Ill

in his Biographical Dictionary, as The Idea of Universal Education. Theories were
frequently termed Ideas in Aubrey's time: --witness Milton's manuscript Idea Theo-

logia, mentioned in a former page ; Pell's Idea of Mathematicks ; Templer's Idea

Theologia Leviathanis ; and Mackenzie's Idea Eloquentiee ; all written about the
same era. Hitherto the only published notice of Aubrey's Idea of Education was

a letter from the Rev. Andrew Paschal to Aubrey, penned after perusing the

manuscript, and offering some suggestions for its improvement.*

   The preceding pages show the value which the writer himself attached to this

production. It comprises about one hundred leaves, foolscap folio, written, on one

side only, in a loose and confused manner, and is called on the title-page, "A

Private Essay only." It is dated 1683-4, and is an elaborate plan for the formation

of schools, or establishments, in which the "Education of Young Gentlemen" should

be better conducted, and more independently of the priesthood, than in any academy

or college then extant.

   In a copy of a letter from Aubrey to Anthony Henley, Esq. written in 1693-4,

and annexed to the manuscript, he says, " The Earle of Pembroke hath read it over,

and excerpted some things. He approves of but not active.yc               wish may live
                                                          i. is           I
                                                     it,                      I
                                                               p.
                                                                   ;             I
to transcribe fair copie, from which others may be transcribed.           have some
it
hopes that the Marquis of Worcester may propagate this designe in Wales.                                 ; It
     aa

           it
                 it
would be but, as were, saying fat, to                   E. of Pembroke, Lord Worcester, and

Lord Ashley, to have established at Cranburn. But God's will be done. If the

nobless have mind to have their children be put into the Clergie's pockets, much

good may do 'em." He begs that the manuscript (which accompanied the letter)

might be returned to him, or to Mr. Hooke at Gresham College, in the event of his
decease and adds, " But foresee that will lie there coffined up, and nobody have
;                                     ;
    ;
                                         of ; it
          ;

             is

                                ;

                      ;I
that generosity to set afloat this noble designe."

The essay divided into thirty-two chapters, of which the principal are entitled,

the Proem the Institution Grammar Mathematicall Prudence Geometrie Ethics
                                                                          ;
                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                      ;
Logic Rhetorique Civil Law Method the Schooles the Classes Exercise, in
                                   ;

                         * Aubrey's History Surrey, vol.            xiv.
1 12 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

schoole and for holydayes ; the Diet-hall, and Portico ; Penances, or Punishments ;

Orders, or Statutes ; Religion, &c.

    Under these various heads Aubrey describes the course of study which he con
sidered most desirable in each successive year, for pupils between the ages of nine
and eighteen. Speaking of his proposed library, he devotes ten pages to a list of
books, which he regarded as best calulated for the instruction of youth ; and this
is interesting as showing his opinions of the classics, and of certain contemporary
writers.* He strongly urges instruction in arithmetic of the most useful kind, by
means of counters ; and recommends that the walls of the class-rooms should be
ornamented with portraits of illustrious men, and with emblems and mottoes incul
cating practical wisdom and morality. He further advises that the Provost and

Informations (as he calls the tutors) should be unmarried, and that " Swiss, Dutch,
and Scotch men, of good presence, be engaged to teach ;" not forgetting " a lusty
young Swiss with a long sword,--one that can speak Latin, -- to be the porter." His
plan makes ample provision for the exercise and amusement of the scholars, who,
besides having " 10 or 12 Swiss boys to play with them," were to be taught riding,

and out-of-door exercise by a Swiss, and dancing by a Frenchman. The rules for

diet are judicious, as well as his reproval of corporal punishment. " I would have

no such thing as the turning up of bare buttocks," but on the contrary he advises
finger-stocks, and deprivation of amusement, for boys who misconduct them
selves. He recommends the study of astrology as " the best guide to direct us to
what professions or callings children are by nature most fit or most inclined to."

The Essay thus characteristically concludes : " But now (methinkes) I see a black
squadron, led up by a crosier staffe (Dr Jo. Fell, Bp. of Oxford), marching from

Oxford, to discomfite this pretty Little Flock, and so this my pleasing Dream is at

an End. Soli Deo Gloria."
    Amongst the places where the author proposed to establish his schools were,

Canonbury, Islington ; Merton, in Wiltshire ; and Cranburne, in Dorsetshire.

   * In the Ashmolean Museum is a volume containing nine printed pamphlets (small 4to.) thus marked by
Aubrey :-- " This collection of Gramaticall Learning, and another in 8vo., is in relation to my Idea of the
Education of the Noblesse."
                                     " REMAINES OF GENTILISME."  113

X. "REMAINES OF GENTILISME, 3 PARTS, SC, ABOUT 3 QTM. WlTH Dr KENNET."
   [In the British Museum, being part of the Lansdoume MS. No. 231.]

   The Lansdowne MS. No. 231, is entitled in the catalogue of that series, " A

Volume of Miscellaneous Collections formerly in the possession of Bishop Kennett,

but not made by himself." Aubrey's is the third manuscript in the volume, and

extends from p. 101 to p. 241. The above note shows that this work was in the

possession of Bishop Kennett in 1692 : and after his death it passed, together with
his other papers, into the custody of the first Marquess of Lansdowne, whose
valuable collection was purchased for the British Museum in 1807- *

   This manuscript, which is dated 1688,-f- has the following title and dedication :--
" Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme. By J. Aubrey, R.S.S. To His ever

honoured Friend Edmund Wyld,J of Geasly Hall, in the County of Salop, Esq",

these Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme are dedicated, as a small token of

ancient Friendship, by his affectionate and humble Servant, J. Aubrey."
   A volume of "Anecdotes and Traditions" was edited, in 1839, by W. J. Thoms,

* William, Marquess of Lansdowne, whose country seat was Bowood, Wiltshire, about six miles from the

birth-place of Aubrey, was not more famed in the political than in the literary and scientific world. His seat

was a sort of English Tusculum, where the most distinguished statesmen, artists, literati, and men of science
often associated to enjoy " the feast of reason and the flow of soul ;" where the state of nations, of parties, of

novelties in literature and art, were discussed and reviewed ; where the obstinacy of a monarch, and the reck

less tyranny of a minister, were brought under the severe and condemnatory scrutiny of some of the most
potent critics of the age. It would not be a difficult task to trace some of the famed letters of Junius to this

fountain head (vide Life of Charles Butler, by Dr. Bowring). The value and importance of that portion of
the contents of the British Museum, properly called the Lansdowne Manuscripts, cannot fail to dignify

the character of the illustrious nobleman who amassed and preserved it.

  f " London, S' Bartholomew's Close, Octob. Novemb. Decemb. 1688."
  J This Mr. Wyld is mentioned by Roger North in his account of the learned associates of the Lord Keeper

Guildford : " One Mr Wyld, a rich philosopher, lived in Bloomsbury. He was single, and his house a sort of

knick-knack-atory. Most of the ingenious persons about town visited him, and among the rest his lordship

did suit and service there. This gentleman was of a superior order, and valued himself upon new inventions

of his own. He sowed salads in the morning, to be cut for dinner ; and claimed the invention of painted

curtains, in varnish, upon silk ; which would bend and not crack ; and his house was furnished with them :

and he delighted in nothing more than in shewing his multifarious contrivances." North's Life of Guildford

(edition 1826), vol.  ii.      180.
                           p.
1 14 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Esq. and published by the Camden Society, the second part of which, as the editor

states in the preface, "is derived from the Lansdowne MS. No. 231, written by the

well-known John Aubrey, and containing his materials (with some subsequent addi
tions by Dr White Kennett, Bishop of Peterborough,) for a work, the publication of
which he had contemplated under the title of ' Remains of Gentilism and Judaism,'
and in which, it appears, he had proposed to draw a parallel between the super
stitions of Greece and Rome and those of his own country ; finding the records, or
rather traces, of the former, in the works of their Poets, and collecting his English
stores from the communications of his friends. Many interesting passages of this
manuscript have been already transferred by Sir Henry Ellis to his edition of
Brand's Popular Antiquities ; these with one exception, that of the Funeral Dirge,
have been omitted in the present work ; but, combined with those here printed, may
be said to comprise everything deserving of publication contained in the volume."

   The specimens selected by Mr. Thorns consist of about seventy short passages,
each of which is illustrated and explained by means of appropriate notes. The
original essay comprises an interesting series of memorials of customs and observances
prevalent in Wiltshire, and other parts of England, in Aubrey's time ; but, as the
original is readily accessible in the National Library, it is unnecessary to enlarge
upon its contents.

XI. " Villare Anglicanum, [to be] interpreted.  Fol." [In the Ashmolean

    Museum.]

   This manuscript was known to and mentioned by Warton and Huddesford, as well

as by Gough, the latter of whom describes it as consisting of corrections and additions

to Adams's Index Villains (British Topography, vol. i. p. 53J. ' It has the following
title-page, but no date : " An Interpretation of Villare Anglicanum. Musaeo Ashmo-
leano donTit Clariss. Author, Jo. Aubrey." The manuscript is evidently the mere

commencement of a work which Aubrey had projected, but was unable to pro
secute. In a letter to Llhwyd, (dated 1691,) he urges that gentleman to complete

it for publication. In the same letter he says, " Pray register my strawe Tobacco-
COLLECTIONS OF DREAMS AND GEN1TURES.          115

box, and Mr Fr. Potter's little Quadrant, and agate-haft." These gifts to the Ash-
molean Museum were probably lost or stolen before the year ' 1824, previous to

which date the collection was much neglected.

   The above work, of about one hundred and thirty foolscap pages, comprises

a list, alphabetically arranged, entitled, " A Collection of British Names of Towns

and Rivers out of Villare Anglicanum." Appended is "A Collection of British

words that are endenized and now current English, and has escaped the fury of
the Saxon conquest" (2 pages) ; and " Words (now antiquated and obsolete)
extracted out of the English Translation of Titus Livius, by Philemon Holland, in

1600. Then in fashion and current English." (4 pages.)

XII. "A Collection of Divine Dreames from persons of my acquaintance

   WORTHY OF BELIEFE. 8VO."                   Wth Dr Waple, Minister

XIII. "Hypothesis Ethic. & Scala Religionis.
   of Sepulchres by Newgate."

   These are not known as separate works ; but the first of them probably supplied

the materials for the chapter on Dreams in Aubrey's printed Miscellanies. (See

article XXII. in a subsequent page.)

XIV. "A Collection of Genitures well attested, 4to." [In the Ashmolean

     Museum^]

   The above collection has never been publicly noticed until the present time. It is

a small 4to. manuscript, stitched in parchment, and extends to nearly two hundred

pages. It has the title " Collectio Genituarum, Various astrol. mems. Londini,
May 29, 1674," and on the outside " 1677- For the Museum." As its name implies,
it consists of a series of genitures, horoscopes, or nativities, embracing those of

Aubrey himself, drawn by Coley, which have been already mentioned ; others
referring to his brother William, to his parents, and to their immediate ancestors.
From these have been derived some of the dates embodied in the pedigree of the
116 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

Aubrey family (ante, p. 24). There are also calculations of the nativities of Dr. Dee,
Partridge, Hobbes, Dryden, Dr. Charlton, William Penn, Sir William Petty, Sir
Christopher Wren, King Charles the Second, and many other celebrated men ; also
the dates of many principal events in their lives. The care which Aubrey evidently
bestowed upon the collection of these details gives them considerable value as
materials for the biographer and literary historian; and the volume is further
interesting as it exemplifies the gross absurdities inherent in judicial astrology, in
belief of which our antiquary was an infatuated and unfortunate dupe.

         XV. " Easton Piers delineated." [In the Ashmolean Museum.']
   Warton and Huddesford mention this under its full title, " Designatio de
Easton-Piers in Com. Wilts. Per me (heu !) infortunatum Johannem Aubrey,
R.S. Socium. Anno Dili 1669." It comprises nineteen oblong quarto leaves, with
" views of the house, gardens, and environs of Easton Piers, drawn in a coarse
manner and colouring, but pleasing and expressive." The view in the title-page of
the present volume has been copied from one of these. A section through the
house and garden, north and south, shows that the latter was laid out in the Italian or

French mode, upon three different levels, each raised above the other, and ascended

by flights of steps, with a " jedeau" [jet-d'eau] in the lowest. A " grotto, above
which, on a pilar, stands a volant Mercury," are delineated in the drawings of the
garden. Six of the sketches represent groups of trees, in different parts of the
grounds : others show some of the grottoes in the gardens, and indications of

prospects from the house.

  XVI. " Villa, or a Description of the Prospects from Easton Piers."

   This may have been a companion volume to the above ; but it is not to be

found.

   XVII. "Faber FoRTUNiE, A Private Essay." [In the Ashmolean Museum. ~\
   The above Manuscript has not hitherto attracted public attention. It consists of

twenty-six small quarto pages, being hints or memoranda of matters desirable for
                     u FABER FORTUNjE."                                       117

the public good, or for the writer's personal advantage. The following are extracts :

" 1 . To get a Patent to open the passage for to make it wider for shippes to come

to Bristowe : whereas now they come no nearer than Hungerode. Also to blow

up the little Island in the key at Bristowe, which occupies the room of two or

three Barks ; also to make obtuse the sharp angular rock at Sl Vincent's, wch

is a great nusance.  2. To put some body upon marying the Thames and

Avon; and to get a share in it." " 12. MTM Hucker advised me to purchase a

barren ground four miles from her estate, wherein is wonderfully rich oare of Anti     y
mony and Lead, unknown to the Owner." " 18. The institution of my Idea for the

Education of Young Gentlemen in Derbyshire, in Cheshire, London, &c." "28.

Search in the Pety -bag-office, if any Reversions. Gett half a dozen reversions, and
in halfe a year one of them may probably fall. This advice I had from my worthy

friend Mr James Bovey. Get a cole-meter's place. 'Tis worth          p ann."

Many of the memoranda relate to mineralogical matters ; such as alum ; calu-

mine ; making latten ; extracting silver from lead ; working in copper and brass ;

&c. The last entry is a proposition for establishing an office for registering

statistics of various kinds ; viz. Births, Marriages, Burials, the Number of Houses,

and Population, Trades, Excise, Church Revenues, Prisoners and Executions,

Shipping, Prices Current, and several other matters which, though little regarded

in Aubrey's time, are now most carefully recorded, and made public.

XVIII. " A Collection of Approved Receipts."  Not to be found.

XIX. " A Collection of Letters, writt to me from about 100 ingeniose

  fpersons : inch thick. This I designe for the Museum." [In the

    Ashmolean Museum.]

   With respect to Aubrey's correspondence, it is remarkable that so few of the

original letters of one who maintained a constant intercourse with his literary
friends should be preserved. I am not aware that more than sixty or seventy of
them are to be found, and fifty-six of those are addressed to Anthony a Wood.
118 MEMOIR OP JOHN AUBREY.

After the death of the latter they came into the possession of James Ballard, and
form part of his valuable collection of original letters, now in the Bodleian Library,
at Oxford. The remainder of Aubrey's autograph letters are scattered through his
various manuscripts at Oxford, and there are two short notes in the British Museum.

(See AyscougKs Catalogue, p. 217.) The letters to Anthony a Wood extend from
1 667 to 1694 ; and, as shown by the frequent extracts in previous pages of this
volume, are full of information on the literary topics of the times. They will be
found in the fourteenth volume of Ballard's series.

    Of equal importance with these is the above-named collection, made by Aubrey,
of about four hundred letters written to him, and now preserved, apparently at the
instance of Llhwyd, in the Ashmolean Museum. It comprises communications from
Sir John Aubrey, from Bathurst, Byrom, Charlton, Sir W. Dugdale, Gibson, Halley,
Harrington, Hobbes, Hollar, Sir John Hoskyns, Sir James Long, Llhwyd, Lydall,
Sir Isaac Newton, Paschal, Penn, Sir William Petty, Plott, Potter, Ray, Tanner, the
Earl of Thanet, Wallis, and many other celebrated men. From some of these we
learn that Aubrey took much interest in a popular project of the day, viz. the
" Universal Character," or a method of writing to be based upon a due consideration
of the philosophy of language. On this subject he corresponded with the Rev.
Andrew Paschal, with Seth Ward, Bishop of Salisbury, and Francis Lodwick, one of
the attesting witnesses to his Will, ante, p. 60. Many interesting passages might,

indeed, be extracted from these volumes, but I forbear quotation, from a fear

 of making the present memoir too prolix. One of them is a long and very friendly
 letter from William Penn to Aubrey, dated Philadelphia, 13th June, 1683, in
which the writer gives a description of that transatlantic city, and of his govern
ment of the little band of colonists under his control. At the end of the second
volume are " Letters from Dr Ja: Garden, Professor of Theologie at Aberdene, to Mr

J. Aubrey, concerning the Druids' Temples." These comprise only eight of the

 learned Doctor's epistles ; four others were affixed by Aubrey to his Monumenta

Britannica ; and I possess two more : the whole of them are dated between June,

 1692, and July, 1695.
HIS CORRESPONDENCE.  119

   Anthony a Wood must have corresponded frequently with Aubrey ; but there
are only three of his letters in the Ashmolean collection.

    Hearne and VVarton were acquainted with the volumes here referred to ; which
have not since attracted the attention they are so well entitled to.

    Some letters from Aubrey to Ray were found amongst the papers of the latter,
after his death, and published by Derham in his selection of the deceased naturalist's
Philosophical Letters (8vo. 1718); and a few others, addressed to Aubrey by his
friends, have appeared in the anonymous volume mentioned in p. 85, likewise in

Warton's Life of Bathurst ; in the European Magazine ; in Aubrey's Surrey ; in his
Miscellanies ; in the Letters from the Bodleian ; and in Hoare's Ancient Wiltshire.
Most of these, however, have already been adverted to in the present memoir.

                                   XX. " Adversaria Physica."

    Besides being mentioned by the author himself, a manuscript with this title

is alluded to by Ray (see a letter by him, p. 64, ante). I do not find any such

work in the Ashmolean Museum.

                    XXI. "An Introduction to Architecture."

   Dr. Rawlinson, in his Memoir of Aubrey, speaking of his writings, says, "there

yet remains an unfinished piece, Architectura Sacra, and as I am told prefixed to

one of his MSS. at Oxford." The same statement is repeated in the memoir of
1721 (Miscellanies), with the additional information that the collection "treats
of the manner of our Church Building in England for several ages ;" and Warton
and Huddesford, in their list of the Aubrey manuscripts, mention " Architectonica
Sacra : a curious MS., but unfinished."

    Aubrey's remarks on architecture seem to have been confined to that of the old
churches of England, and, scanty as they are, evince a familiarity with the pro
gressive changes in the forms and decorations of many ecclesiastical edifices in
different parts of the Island. Accompanying a notice of the church of Kington St.

Michael there are, in the manuscript of his North Division of Wiltshire, some
120 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

sketches of the windows and of the north doorway,* with notes referring to analogous
examples in other buildings. The same sketches and observations were repeated by
the author in the first chapter of Part IV. of his Monumenta Britannica (to which

division of the work he gave the title " Chronologia Architectonica"), and he there
extended his remarks to upwards of thirty pages, illustrating them with more than

fifty sketches, chiefly of windows and doorways. Some of his remarks are judicious ;
and there is an approximation to the views now entertained, in his chronological
arrangement of the objects he delineates. He says, " The Gothic architecture was a
deviation from ye Roman, and ye Gothic Characters a Deviation from ye Roman Cha
racters. Mem. That the fashions of building do last about 1 00 years, or less ; the

windows ye most remarqueable : hence one may give a guess about what Time ye
Building was."

   Passages from this essay may be consulted in Gough's abstract of the Monumenta
Britannica, in the Bodleian Library; and there is also an imperfect copy of the
Chronologia Architectonica, in a different hand- writing, amongst Aubrey's papers in
the Ashmolean Museum. As already mentioned, some etchings from Aubrey's
sketches of windows, &c. were published by Francis Perry in 1762.

XXII. " Some Strictures of Hermetick Philosophy, collected by J.
   Aubrey. W,b Dr Waple."

Hermetic philosophy has been described as " that which undertakes to deduce

all the Phenomena of Nature from three Chemical Principles, Salt, Sulphur, and

Hermes, or Mercury." (Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica.') Aubrey, however, uses the

term to denote astrology, or matters of mystery and superstition, generally; and

describes his Miscellanies as " A Collection of Hermetic Philosophy."  It is

therefore probable that he employed the word with reference to certain writings

on astrological subjects, known as early as the third or fourth centuries, and

ascribed to an Egyptian sage or deity, called Hermes by the Greeks, and surnamed

   * The north wall of Kington Church appears to be modern. In the smith wall there are old jambs, with
three-quarter columns to the door-way, indicative of the end of the twelfth century.
INTRODUCTION TO ARCHITECTURE.                                                          121

by astrologers Trismegistus, or thrice great. These appear to have been really
written " at Alexandria, by Gnostic Christians, or philosophers, of the Aristotelian,

or of the new Platonic schools." {Penny Cyclopadia, article Hermes.) Greek
and English versions of some of these writings were published in London, in the

seventeenth century, and no doubt contributed to encourage the occult and mystic

study of Astrology.
   The manuscript which, in 1692, as above-mentioned, was in the possession of

Dr. Waple, was doubtless the same which Aubrey afterwards published, with the
title of " Miscellanies."

   The first edition of the work (1696), and the second (1721), have been already

mentioned. A third was " Printed for W. Ottridge, Strand ; and E. Easton, at

Salisbury," 8vo. 1784*. In the second edition four diagrams, which were engraved on

wood for the first edition, occupy a copper-plate at the beginning of the volume,

and translations of the Latin passages quoted in the work, are added to the
originals. " Some Memoirs of the Life of John Aubrey" condensed from the account

by Dr. Rawlinson in the History of Surrey, precede it ; and there is an additional
chapter (xxii), entitled, " The discovery of two murders by an apparition."
                                                                                       A

story from the Athenian Mercury is inserted at the end, in compliance with the
wish expressed by the author in his letter to Mr. Churchill only a few days before
his death (see p. 72, ante). This edition appears to have been printed from a copy
corrected by Aubrey. The price of it was four shillings. The third edition has

a different title-page, and chapter xii. is there entitled Miranda (having previously
been headed Marvels') ; but it is in other respects little else than a reprint of the
edition of 1721.

   The contents of this work, and the opinions of the author, may be inferred from

the list of the chapters (ante, p. 2) ; and that it is frivolous, and replete with

absurdities, cannot be denied. In the words of the late estimable Mr. Hamper
(Life of Sir W. Dugdale, p. 414), it is indeed " a farrago of superstition and
credulity." Still it has been the means of preserving some interesting traditionary

   * It is stated in Lowndes' Bibliographer's Manual, that there  were other editions  in 1714, 1723, and
I1731, but have not found any authority for the assertion.                                    R
122 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

                                                                                                                                                <

anecdotes of the times, and affords curious illustrations of the credulity not only
of the writer, but of many of his literary contemporaries. The superstitious de
lusions which were credited when the volume was first printed do not appear to

have been wholly eradicated when it was republished, nearly a century later.
   Sir Walter Scott derived some aid from Aubrey's lucubrations, in his admirable

novel The Antiquary, the first volume of which contains several passages clearly
suggested by the Miscellanies. Indeed the latter work is directly referred to by the

novelist ; for, in reproving his " sister Grizel" for prolixity, Oldbuck, the antiquary,
charges her to " imitate the concise style of old Aubrey, an experienced ghost-seer,
who entered his memoranda on these subjects in a terse, business-like manner,
exempli gratia: 'At Cirencester, 5th March, 1670, was an apparition. Being

demanded whether good spirit or bad, made no answer, but instantly disappeared
with a curious perfume, and a melodious twang.' Vide his Miscellanies, p. eighteen

as well as I can remember, and near the middle of the page."
   It will be seen on reference to the original that Sir Walter did not hesitate to add

to the effect of Aubrey's terse and concise narration by the insertion of a date, " 5th
March," which is not in the Miscellanies ; but this is a licence which, in a work of

fiction, cannot be of much importance. Sir Walter, indeed, like many other writers
of novels and historical romances, often used quotation and authority, more to suit

the spirit of his own writings than to honour the author whom he cited. Oldbuck

again, terming his sister an " old woman," says, " I include in the same class many

a sounding name, from Iamblichus down to Aubrey, who have wasted their time in

devising imaginary remedies for non-existent diseases."

    A few of the early pages of the Miscellanies are expressly stated by the author to
be a reprint of some remarks on " Day-Fatality ; or observations of days lucky and
unlucky," collected by " Mr. John Gibbon (Blew-mantle), and printed in two sheets

 in folio, 16/8." These observations comprise some which bear personal reference to
 their author, Gibbon ; but, overlooking Aubrey's explanation, many of his bio

graphers have regarded them as if written by the latter. Thus it has been said that

 Aubrey, instead of Gibbon, was born on the 3rd of November, and that he was a

 considerable loser by the irruption of the sea upon some valuable marsh land in
                     ' "miscellanies."                                             123

Kent, part of an estate which had been left to him ; but a more careful examination
of this Essay proves that the passages in question do not relate to Aubrey. In like
manner some pompous Latin verses by Gibbon, celebrating the birthday of the
Duke of York (afterwards James II.) have been attributed to Aubrey.*

   The anonymous letters printed in the Miscellanies on the subjects of ".Trans

portation in the Air by an Invisible Power," and " Second-Sighted Men in

Scotland," were written by his friend and correspondent Dr. Garden, of Aberdeen.

   Besides the manuscript literary works by Aubrey, preserved in the Ashmolean
Museum, there is a small packet, marked (apparently by Malone) " Loose Papers

(I believe) in Mr Aubrey's hand." Amongst these is the Draught of his Will, pre
pared between 1652 and 1659, which has been given in page 33, and a sketch

of a dramatic piece which Aubrey contemplated writing. It seems to have been .--

intended for a comedy in five acts, but the first three scenes alone are written,

and those in a very rough and confused manner. The heads of the succeeding

scenes are indicated ; and a careful examination of the manuscript might develope
the author's intention. The play was to be called " The Country Revell,-f- or The

Revell of Aldford,"  and the following  are some  of the  " Dramatis Personae   "

                                                                               :

Courtoise, a Knight of the Bath, and Protector and Servant of distressed Ladies ;

Lady Euphrasia, wife to Sir Libidinous Gourmand ; Lady Florimel, wife to Sir

Surly Chagrin ; Justice Wagstaff (Sir J. Dunstable) ; Sir Fastidious Overween ;

Captain Exceptious Quarrelsome ; Country Wenches and Fellows ; Ballard-singer,

&c. On the title-page is written, " Scene, Aldford in Cheshire, by y* River Dee.

   * It will be seen that the statement as to Aubrey's marriage, already refuted, is not the only error in pre
vious notices of Aubrey. He is often said to have been at school with Hobbes at Leigh-de-la-Mere, which

has been shown to be incorrect; and his memorable interview with Charles the Second is stated to have

occurred at Stonehenge instead of at Avebury.

  t A revel or wake is an annual rustic festival, generally limited to country villages, or hamlets,

not sufficiently populous to support a fair. Shakspere uses the word revel to denote a feast of riotous and

noisy jollity.
124 MEMOIR OF JOHN AUBREY.

St. Peter's Day 1669." "Act I. Scene 1.," however, is " Christian-Malford Green.

Enter Country Wenches." Christian-Malford is a parish in the immediate vicinity
of Aubrey's birth-place.

   In October, 1697, four months after Aubrey's death, some remarks by him on
" a medicated spring at Lancarim, Glamorganshire," were published in the Philo
sophical Transactions (No. 233, p. 727).

   The preceding narrative, with the extracts and comments on the life and writings
of Aubrey, may be considered by some readers as too minute ; perhaps even as

frivolous and unworthy of publication ; but I am well satisfied that there are many

others who will wish they had been extended, especially when it is known that the
materials for doing so were not deficient. Aware of the impossibility of pleasing

all, I have been influenced by the expressed wishes and opinions of those antiquaries
I Iwhose judgments respect ; and in what is here put on record, have endeavoured

to develope the personal and mental characteristics of the man, as well as the spirit
of the age in which he lived and acted ; and these will be found to reflect each other
vividly and tangibly. Had Aubrey associated with men of high intellect ; had he
lived in the present times of political, literary, and scientific high-pressure power, he
must have greatly distinguished himself, for he evidently possessed that element of
sympathy for art and nature which is the germ of greatness. The appalling and
degrading fanaticism, with the frivolous superstition which pervaded society, in town
and country, in college and at court, could not fail to influence and corrupt the
general character of all persons who came within their respective influences. Even
Milton and Dryden, his contemporaries, and Johnson in a later and more enlightened
age, were not exempt from certain notions of bigotry and superstition. Few are the
persons, and rare their occurrence, who can stand so far aloof from their associates,
as to think and act with perfect freedom, independent of contemporary prejudices
and conventionalities.

                                      FINIS.
                                                INDEX.

Abingdon, the Earl of, a patron of Aubrey, 31,           death, 14, 30, 32, 33 monumental inscription, 32
                                                                      ;                                                                                                      a;

   43 ; his Miscellanies dedicated to him, 71 ; poem        discouraged Aubrey's studies, 15
   written for him by Dryden, 105
" Accidents " of John Aubrey, an autobiographical        J.Aubrey, Deborah (mother of A.), letter to Wood

   paper, 17, 44                                             upon her death, 59
Addison, his comedy of " The Drummer," 31                             Sir John, Bart, (his cousin) 30 created

                                                            Baronet Charles II., 37 mentioned by Wood,

                                                             43
                                                                ; by                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                                                                       ;

Agriculture, Cromwell's opinion on, 33                   William (his brother), was Aubrey's adminis
" Amici," Aubrey's List of, 16

Architecture (Church), Aubrey's remarks and draw         trator, 75 died intestate, 76

ings, 3, 20                                              Aubrey, John, lists of his works,                                                                         16, 20 opi
                                                                                                                                                    3                     ;
                                                                                                                                                             ; 2,
Ashmole, Elias, his superstition, 1 1 ; induces Aubrey   nions on his literary merits, -- 12 his autobio

to study Astrology, 6 ; his Diary characterized,         graphical sketches, with copy of his horoscope, 12
                                                         --20 narrative of his career, with pedigree and
1 1 ; letter written to him by Aubrey, 57 ; Aubrey's     ;;extracts from his works and correspondence, 21 --
papers in his possession, 61 ; in Ashmolean Mu               ;75 summary of his personal characteristics, 76 --

seum, 62

Ashmolean Museum, fees for examining its archives,       79 account of portraits, painted and engraved,
   Pref. x; its erection, 61 ; Aubrey gives his papers   80--82; analysis of his works, 83 -- 124; mis

to ib. register of his benefactions, 63, 84              statements of previous writers, Pref. v, vii, viii, 40
    it,                                              ;;                                                                                                                      ;
          it ;
gifts to by Aubrey, not to be found, 80, 84, 115;        summary of his character, 123.

inscription over the Library, 83 present state of
                          ;9                             Aubrey's Works --
Aubrey's gifts, 84                8 ;8 ;                              :
                                             ;                                  ;
Astrology, Aubrey's belief in,      its popularity in    Adversaria Physica, commended by Ray, 20, 64,

the 16th and 17th centuries, -- 12 works on the              119

subject still published,        characterized by Sir     Architecture (Church), his remarks on, 119

                                                         Collection Dreams, 115
Walter Scott,   ;9  notices of Lilly, Ashmole, and              of

other professors, 10, 11 causes of its downfall, 11;     Collection of Genitures quoted or referred to, 20,
predictions of Coley and Gadbury as to Aubrey,
                                                            25, 46, 48, 54, 61, 70 described, 115

48                                                       Collection of Receipts, 20, 117

Athenian Mercury, the, 73                                The Country Revell, an unfinished play, 123

" Aubrey," origin of the name, 21                        Designatio de Easton-Pierse,                                                               drawings by Aubrey,
Aubrey, Dr. William, (an ancestor                            20, 25, 46
                                    of the topogra
   pher) 22 entail of his estates,  and consequent       Faber Fortunce by Aubrey, quoted or referred to,

                                                             16, 20, 45, 58, 59, 79 described, 117
                                                         Hypothesis Ethic, and Scala Religionis, 20, 115
                                                         Idea Education of Young Gentlemen referred to
law suits, 45;

                                                                            of

                                                                                                                                                 ;
Aubrey, John (grandfather of the topographer), 25
            Richard (his father), 25; his illness and
126 INDEX.

by Aubrey, 16, 20 ; lent to Evelyn and Ray, 64 ;                                 linson,  i;b    commended     by  Evelyn, 50 revised and
                                                                                               by                 ;                       ;
                                                                                                                                                     ;
written by Aubrey, and valued by him, 56, 62 ;                                   extended          its author, 64 lent to Ray, ib. MS.
commended by Paschal, 56; described, 110; re
                                                                                 described, 97 high prices realized for some copies,
                                                                                                   ;

ferred to, 117                                                                   98

Lives of Eminent Men, title of the printed work, 2 ;                          Villare Anglicanum,           Interpretation                of,  quoted   or
   Aubrey's Autobiography, from the MS., 12 -- 17 ;                              referred to, 16, 20,                                                   its
                                                                                                            75; MS. described, 114
referred to by Aubrey, 16, 20; quoted, 22, 25,                                Wiltshire, Aubrey's           " Natural History " of,
27, 29, 30, 32, 37, 44, 45, 49, 54, 55, 56, 64,
                                                                                 merits,         quoted or referred to, 16, 20, 27, 28,
                                                                                          ;4
                                                                                                        ;
70, 79 ; compiled for, and given to Anthony a                                    33, 61, 80, 81 quoted in Gibson's Camden, 71;
Wood, 55 ; the MS. mutilated by Wood, 67, 68,
104; described, with their literary history, 98                                  lend to Tanner, 65, 71 commenced                         it, byAubrey,
                                                                                                            of ;                                  ;
                                                                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                 33 extended and transcribed for the Royal Society,;
                                                                                 5,
                                                                                    8, ;
                                                                                                   ;;
--110                                                                                 59, 92 Aubrey's Will respecting                          60 lent

Life of Hobbes, quoted 20, 28, 37, 54; MS. de                                    to Ray, 64 described, 92 -- 97 its contents, 94

    scribed, 100, 110                                                            often confounded with North Wilts, 97

Lives of Mathematicians, quoted or referred to, 20,                           Wiltshire, Description           the North Division                       of
   63; MS. described, 110
                                                                                 the County, Aubrey's account of completing                             it,
Miscellanea, a MS. so called, 98
                                                                                 15 quoted or referred to, 20, 27, 32, 34, 46, 47,
Miscellanies, Memoir of J. Aubrey in second edition,                                  ;;
                                                                                                 2,
    Pref. vii ; superstitious nature of its contents, 8 ;                                             it, 4,
                                                                                                                     ;;

                                                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                 57, 72, 74, 76, 85 quoted in Gibson's Camden,                 ;
                                                                                 71 begun by Aubrey, 34; completed, 47 elabo
quoted or referred to, 20, 29, 30, 31, 32, 64, 70, 84,                           rate nature of the MS., 35 Sir T. Phillipps's

85, 90, 98, 120 ; first edition noticed, 2, 71 ; a copy                          edition,              35, 87 lent to Tanner, who proposed
corrected by Aubrey, 72 ; his proposed addition to                               to extend
                                                                                                       65, 72; described, 84--87; often

it,                                                                              confounded with Nat. Hist. Wilts, 87
        ;
                                       ;
72 his presentation copy to the Ashm. Mus. 84                              ;

described, 121; second edition noticed, 73, 121;

third edition, 121, 122 distinguished from another                            Autobiography characterised,         1; of Aubrey, 12 -- 19,
                                                                                 44,47
work so called, 85

Monumenta JBritannica, its possessor unknown, Pref.                           Avebury, first discovered by Aubrey, 30; again

ix, 71, 87 inquiries for   ;              the author of this                    visited, 32; Aubrey's interview with Charles II.
; ; 3,      ;;                      it
                                                                                 there, 39 description of for the king, ib. the
                                         ; by
                                                        3,                       first printed notice of 71
Memoir, ib. quoted or referred to, 20, 21, 26,                                             ;                it,                                   ;
31, 33, 39, 65, 80, 81, 103, 120 its origin, 39, 47,                                                             it                                      by

91 lent to Tanner, 65 quoted in Gibson's Camden,

71 noticed    ; it by  Warton, 100; described, 87 --91                     ;  Bacon, Lord, received         a  bribe from Christopher

abstracts of           made by Gough, Hutchins, and                              Awbrey, 21

Hoare, 88, 89 arrangement of its contents, 90                                 Ballard's Letters quoted, 17, 27, 44, 46, 47, 52, 56,

Templa Druidum, part of the above, 61, 65, 90                                 '  58, 59, 63, 66, 69, 77, 78

Remaines of Gentilisme, part printed in Thoms's                               Balloting, adopted at Harrington's Club, 36
" Anecdotes and Traditions,"
                                          ;                113; quoted or     Bartolozzi, his engraved portrait of Aubrey, 82, 106
                                                  ;                           Bathurst, Dr. Ralph, intended bequest to him
referred to, 16, 20, 50, 61, 65; described, 113        2,
                                                                                  Aubrey, 34 Warton's Memoir of him, 99
Surrey, History or Perambulation                           2, of, MS. and                     ;
                                                                3,                                      ;v
printed work, quoted or referred to,                                20, 28,   Bermuda, Aubrey urged to go there, 59

41, 49, 51, 56, 64, 71, 74, 82, 74, 92, 80, 95 the                            Biographers of Aubrey, their erroneous and defective
                                                                  by
county visited         by  Aubrey, 49 licensed                          ;        accounts, Pref.            short notice of them, Pref.
                                                                    Ogilby

to survey the county, ib. published by Dr. Raw-                                  vii
                                                 INDEX.                                                       127

Biography, Aubrey's merits in, 3                        Civil Wars noticed       Aubrey, 14, 29, 30
                                                                             by
Biographia Britannica, article Aubrey  described,       Club (Republican) described           byAubrey, 35
   Pref. vii.                                                                                                                 ;
                                                        Codrington, Mistress, Aubrey's addresses to her, 40

Blackburne, Dr. an advertisement prepared     by him    Coley, Henry, his predictions         upon Aubrey's horo
   for Aubrey, 17 ; his Life of Hobbes, 54                 scope, 48

Blandford school noticed, 13, 28                        Cooper, Samuel, his portrait of Hobbes, 37 his

Bodleian Library, the Ballard Collection of Letters      portrait of Aubrey lost, 80

noticed, 118                                            Cromwell, Oliver, his opinion         of agriculture in
                                                           Devonshire, 33
Borstall, a seat of the Aubrey family, 23 ; ancient
   chartulary there, 23, 69                             Croft, Bishop, purchases Stretford of Aubrey, 15,
                                                           45 his letters thereon, ib.
Boswell, James, his edition of Shakspere, 106               ;
Brecon, county of, Aubrey's claim to estates in, 14 ;                 by

law suits thereon, 14, 16, 44                           Dan vers, Aubrey's relation to the family, 25, 31,

Brecknockshire, the family of Aubrey settled there,      105

    21                                                  D'Avenant, Sir William, Aubrey's account of him

Britton, J. abstract of Aubrey's Mon. Brit, in his       quoted           Malone, 101, 102; erasures in that

   possession, 89                                        article discovered  by  Warton, 102, 106
                                                                                                   ;
Browne, Wm. (B.D.) a friend of Aubrey, 28                                                                                 ;
Brouncker, Lord, first President of the Royal Society,
                                                                                                                                     ;
   38                                                   Davenant, John, Aubrey's intended bequests to, 34
                                                        Davenant, Edward, his friendship for Aubrey, 15

                                                         lends Aubrey 500/., 54

Broad Chalk, Wilts, farm held by Aubrey, 30, 32 ;       Death and burial of Aubrey, 73 former mis-state

  sold by him, 15, 46, 47, 59 ; J. Aubrey church           ments on those points, 74
                                                        Dee, Dr. related to the family of Aubrey, 22 Ash-
warden there, 35

Burleton, Herefordshire, Aubrey's estate, 15, 19, 25,      mole's collection for his Life, 84
   32,45
                                                        D'Israeli notices Aubrey in his Quarrels of Au
Burnet, Somersetshire, visited by Aubrey, 26
Butler, Samuel, noticed, 54                                thors,
                                                                 7

                                                        Dobson the artist noticed;            Aubrey, 14, 68
                                                                                       by by
                                                        Drawings by Aubrey in his North Division;             Wilt

Camden's Britannia, queries for new edition ar           shire, 35                                   of
   ranged by Aubrey and others, 50
                                                        Dreams, Aubrey's Collection of, 20                   his Poem
Caulfield, his engraved portrait of Aubrey, 82 ; his    Dryden, his intimacy with Aubrey, 105
   pamphlet respecting Malone, 103; his Oxford
   Cabinet, 104                                            on the Countess of Abingdon, ib.

Celestial Scheme (see Horoscope).                       Dugdale, Sir William, Monasticon published, 50                           ;

Charles II., creates Sir John Aubrey a Baronet, 23,      engraving contributed                Aubrey, 51 his letters
                                                                                              ;
   37 ; patronizes the Royal Society, 38 ; his meeting                                              ;
   with Aubrey at Avebury, 39                            to Wood about Sheldon's MSS. 57 his History of
Charles notice of him by Aubrey, 29
                                                         St. Paul's, 59, 97 his approval      of Aubrey's
Charlton, Dr. names Aubrey to Charles II., 38            Monumenta Britannica, 90

Churchill, Awnsham, had the Monumenta BritannicaI.,     Dugdale, John,    letter to his       father about    Sheldon's
                                                           MSS., 57       the eccentric         bookseller,
   in 1719, 71 letter from Aubrey to him, 72 the;                                                            his "Life
    Monumenta Britannica in his family's possession3,   Dunton, John,
   till 1819, Pref. ix., 88
                                              ;          and Errors," 73

                                                        Easton-Pierse, the birth-place of Aubrey, 13, 32;
128 INDEX.

   sold by him, 15, 46 ; described by Aubrey, 20, 25,                                            prescribes for Aubrey, 18 gives him friendly
   46 ; state of the house in 1780, 26 ; Aubrey's                                                                                5;
   drawings of 46, 116                                                                           advice, 31                           ;
Erneley, Sir John, engaged on the topography of
   Wiltshire, 34;                                                                                Harrington, James, his commonwealth club described,
                 it,
Ettrick, Anthony, accompanies Aubrey to Ireland,                                                 35 his Oceana and Rota, 35, 36
    18, 37 intended bequest to him by Aubrey, 33                                                 ;

Evelyn, his notes to Aubrey's MSS. 90, 92, 96                                                    Hearne, his notices of Aubrey,

                                                                                                 Hermetic Philosophy, Aubrey's remarks on (and
                                                                                                    see Aubrey's Miscellanies), 20 defined, 121

                                                                                                 Hoare, Sir R. C. his abstract of Aubrey's Monumenta

                                                                                                     Britannica, 89

Faithorne, William, his portrait of Aubrey, 81                                                   Hobbes, Aubrey's correspondence with, 37, 39, 54
Farmer, Dr. quotes Aubrey's account of Shakspere,                                                   their first interview, 27 portraits of him, 37 his
                                                                                                                            ;                    ;
     101                                                                                                                            a                   ;;
                                                                                                                                              :
Fees on research for literary purposes objected to,                                              death, 54 Aubrey writes memoir of him, ib.;
    Pref. x                                                                                      Dr. Blackbourne's life of him, 54 Aubrey's Latin;
                                                                                                 verse on him, 55
Fell, Bishop, his interpolations in Wood's History of
    Oxford, 52, 77, 78 satirical allusion to him                                                 Hobbes (see Aubrey's works).
                                                                                                 Hollar, Winceslaus, letter to Aubrey as to
    Aubrey, 112
France, Aubrey's journey to, 19, 37
  ;                                                                                                                                              portrait
                                  ;                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                 of Hobbes, 37 his engraving of Osney Abbey            ;
                                                 7,
                                                    ;                                            at Aubrey's cost, 51

                                                                        1                        Hooke, Robert, his friendship for Aubrey,       16 who
                                                                                         ; ; by     bequeaths his papers to his care, 60         nativity,
Gadbury, John, his predictions questioned by Coley,
   48 complains to Aubrey against Wood, 66                                                       Horoscope described, 11 that of Aubrey's
                                                                                                                        ;

   Wood's reply, 67                                                                              13
Gale, Dr. Thomas, his notes to Aubrey's works, 90,
                                                                                                 Hothfield, Kent, Aubrey visits the Earl of Thanet

92                                                                                                   there, 15 surveys the church, 50;
                                                                                                 " Hudibras" instrumental in producing the downfall
Garden, Dr. his correspondence with Aubrey on
    Druidical Monuments, &c., 63, 70, 90, 19, 123                                                   of Astrology, 11

some of them printed, 64, 90 quoted in Gibson's                                                  Huddesford, William (see Warton and Huddesford).
                                                                                                 Hunter, Rev. Joseph, his account of Aubrey com
Camden, 71

Gardner, Wm, master of Blandford school, 28                                                         mended, Pref. viii
                                                                                                 Hutchins, Rev. John, his abstract of Aubrey's Mon.
Gibson quotes Aubrey in his edition of Camden's

Britannia, 71, 91                                                                                Brit. 88, 91

Gifford, W. his harsh comments on Aubrey, 108

Glastonbury Abbey, ancient ledger book in the                                                    James II., when Duke of York, accompanies Charles
                                                                                                   II. to Avebury, 39 his coronation procession, 58
    Bodleian Library, 57                                                                                       ;
Gore, Thomas, engaged on the togography of Wilt                                                                    ;
                                                                                                 Jenkins, Judge, 30 Aubrey's account of him, 70

shire, 34                                                                                        Ingram, the Rev. Dr., his opinion of Aubrey,             his
                                                                                                                                                 ;7
Gough, Richard, his abstract of Aubrey's Monumenta                                               notice of Llantrithyd, 23                              by

Britannica, 88                                                                                   Inscriptions proposed  by  Aubrey for his tomb, 75

Grey Wethers, the, mentioned   byAubrey, 30                                                      Jonson, Ben, general accuracy of Aubrey's memoir
                                  by
Granger, his notices of Aubrey, Pref. viii                          ;                            of him, 108

Great Fire of London alluded to  Aubrey, 96                                                      Jones, Inigo, his plans of Stonehenge condemned

                                                                                                 Aubrey, 32

Harvey, Dr. William, Aubrey's memoir of him, 31                                                  Ireland, W. H., his Shaksperian forgeries, 102
                                                               INDKX.                                                                             129

Ireland, Aubrey's journey to, 18, 87                           Malone, Edmond, his summary of Aubrey's literary

Kennett, Bishop, his notes on Aubrey's Remains of                      merits,     procured copy of Faithorne's portrait
    Gentilism, 113; register and inscriptions quoted,                           ;6
   82                                                                                       ;

Kettle, Dr., Aubrey's memoir of him, 29                                                                 a
Kington St. Michael, Aubrey's notice and drawings                      of Aubrey, 82 his opinions of Aubrey, and quota
                                                                       tions from his lives, Ac., 101 -- 106
   of 86
                                                               Malmesbury, papers of the abbey destroyed, 28
                                                               Malcolm's Lives of Topographers, careless account of

                                                                       Aubrey, Pref. viii

  ; it,                                                        Manuscripts (Old), frequently destroyed in Aubrey's
                       ;
                                                                       boyhood, 27
                          a1
Lansdowne, William marquis of, 113;                            Marriage of Aubrey disproved, 40
Lansdowne MSS., the, noticed, 113
                                                               Matrices of Roman coins belonging to Aubrey, 84
Lavington, Gibson's birth-place, and the Earl of
                                                               Melksham, mineral springs there, 17
    Abingdon's seat, 72
Latimer, Robert, Aubrey's schoolmaster, 13, 27                 Mercator, some MSS. him in Aubrey's possession,a by
Law-Suits in which Aubrey was concerned, 14, 15,                                                by
                                                                       62 now in the Ashm. Mus. 83
   40,44                                                                  ;                               by

                                                               Middle Temple, Aubrey student there, 14, 19 -- 30

                                                               Miles's Coffee House mentioned                 Aubrey, 35

Leigh-de-la-Mere, Aubrey at school at, 27                      Milton, Memoirs of him                      Aubrey and Phillips,
Letters from the Bodleian, edited by Bliss and Walker,
                                                                     08 his manuscript work on Theology, ib.1;
                                                               " Miscellanies," a work sometimes quoted as Aubrey's,;
12 described, 107
                                                                  85 (see Aubrey's Works, ante').
Letters (Collection of) to Aubrey in the Ashmolean             " Miss," modern term for an unmarried woman, 40
    Museum, quoted or referred to, 20, 30, 81, 46,

   48, 53, 56, 57, 58, 62, 64, 65, 68
                                    ;11 5,                                      a
                                                           ;;
                                                               Monk, General, mentioned                    Aubrey, 37by
                                                                                                                                              in
Letters to Aubrey, Ray's anxiety to get them for               Montague House, London, and its fields, 70
   the Ashm. Mus. 65
                                                               Moore, Sir Jonas, Aubrey's efforts to sell his library,
Letters described, 18 to and from Aubrey in printed               56

books, 119                                                     Musgrave, Sir William, Bart., his obituary                                         the
                                                                   British Museum, 74
Lilly, William, his ignorance and cunning, 10 his
" Life and Times " characterized,
                                           ridiculed in

Hudibras and by Congreve, ib.                                  Newton, Sir Isaac, letter to Aubrey, 56
                                                               North Tidworth, haunted house there, 81
Llantrithyd, one of the seats of the Aubrey family,

30

                                                                                                           Charles II. to survey the

                                                                                                           Aubrey his deputy for
Llhwyd, Edward, 20; Aubrey's letter to him, 114 his            Ogilby,             ,  authorised           by
                                                                   kingdom,             ;49 appoints                      5,
care to arrange and preserve Aubrey's papers, 65

Lodwick, Francis, literary friend of Aubrey, 61, 118               Surrey, ib.
Loggan, D., his portrait of Aubrey, 37, 60, 81                 Osney Abbey, Oxford, destroyed, 5; diawings made

Long, Sir James, Bart., his friendship for Aubrey,                     for Aubrey for the Monasticon, 14, 51, 68

16, 17, 32, 74 his present to Aubrey, 58                       Oxford noticed       by     Aubrey, 14

Love, Christopher, Aubrey witnesses his execution, 31          Oxford, St. Mary Magdalen Church, Aubrey's burial

Lydall, John, intended bequest to him  by  Aubrey, 34                  there, 73

Lyte, Isaac, grandfather of Aubrey, 13, 25, 26, 27,            Paschal, Rev. Andrew, his opinion of Aubrey's Idea
   33,86                                                          of Education, 56

Lyte, Israel, Aubrey's grandmother, 26-- 33                    Pedigree of Aubrey and Lyte, 24

Lyte and Aubrey, pedigree of the families, 24
130 INDEX.

Pembroke, Countess of, the epitaph attributed to Wil    Shakspere, remarks on Aubrey's account of him by
                                                           Warton, Farmer, and Malone, 100 -- 102
liam Browne, 96                  .

Pembroke, Earl of, works by Aubrey dedicated to         Sheldon, Ralph, disputes as to his library, 57

him, 58, 91, 92 ; his patronage of Aubrey, 63, 1 1 1    Sidney, Sir Philip, picture of his funeral noticed by

Perry, Francis, his etchings from Aubrey's Mon.             Aubrey, 29

Brit., 91                                               Silbury Hill, Aubrey's interview with King Charles II.

Petty, Sir William, his friendship for Aubrey, 16       there, 39

Penn, William, gives land in Pennsylvania to Aubrey,    Spenser, Aubrey's account of him in Lives, 100, 101
                                                        J.Stanesby,
58 ; his letter to Aubrey, 1 19                                      T., his account of Aubrey commended,

Philosophical Transactions contain part of a letter     Pref. viii, 87

   written by Aubrey, 124            works, 93 ; ma     Stanton Drew, visited by Aubrey, 26
Plot, Dr. Robert, his topographical                     Stonehenge, attributed by Aubrey to the Druids, 4,

   terials furnished to him by Aubrey, ib.              7 1 ; known to Aubrey when a boy, 26 ; condemns
Pope, Sir Thomas, Warton's Life of, 100 ; his bre
                                                           Inigo Jones's plans, 32
   viary, in the Ashmolean Museum, 83                   Stukeley, Dr., his manuscript diaries and correspond
Portraits of Aubrey, original and engraved, 79 -- 82
                                                           ence, Pref. vi ; his volume on Abury quoted, 39 ;

Poyntz, Captain, land given by him to Aubrey, 59        his account of Queen Square noticed, 70 ; his allu

Uawlinson, Dr. Richard, his Memoir of Aubrey de            sions to Aubrey, 91
   scribed, Pref. vii ; quoted, 88, 74, 119 ; his addi  Stretford, Herefordshire, sold by Aubrey, 15, 19,45
   tions to Aubrey's Surrey, 49 ; " Accidents " of
                                                        Stump, William, Rector of Malmesbury (1633), 27
                                                        Sumner, Joan, Aubrey's addresses to, and law suits

   Aubrey, a paper in his possession, 19 ; his MS.      with her, 15, 16, 19, 40
   note of Aubrey's burial, 74
Ray, John, his reproof of Aubrey's credulity, 5 ;       Sutton, William, master of Blandford school, 28
   letters to and from Aubrey, 80, 94 ; his notes to
                                                        Superstition in the last century and still prevalent, 8,
                                                           9,31

Aubrey's Nat. Hist. Wilts, 95

Republican Club joined by Aubrey, 35                    Tanner, Aubrey's correspondence with, 65, 67 ; lends
Revolution 1688 alluded to by Aubrey, 62                   his MSS. to, 65 ; Tanner's high opinion of them,
                                                            66 ; complains of the want of literary patronage,
Hose's Biographical     Dictionary,  article Aubrey        ib.; assisted Gibson in Camden's Britannia, 71;
   noticed, Pref. viii                                     intended to complete Aubrey's North Wilts, 65,

Roman coins given by Aubrey to Ash. Mus. 63, 84            72 ; his notes to Aubrey's Nat. Hist Wilts, 92

Royal Society, Aubrey elected a Fellow, 19, 38 ; in     Tesselated pavement given by Aubrey to the Ashm.
IIcorporated by Charles
                         , 38 ; their copy of Au            Mus. 63, 84
                                                        Thanet, Earl of, patronizes Aubrey, 15 ; wishes him
brey's Nat. Hist. Wilts, 58, 59, 92, 97; their
                                                           to go to Bermuda, 52 ; gives him a protection
approval of that work, 58, 92                              against his creditors, 53

Ryves, Mistress, Aubrey's engagement to her, 14, 40     Thorns, W. J., his notes to Remaines of Gentilisme,

Scott, Sir Walter, his remarks on Astrology, Lilly,         2, 114
   Ashmole, and Aubrey, 9-- 11
                                                        Tobago, land there given to Aubrey, 59
Seend, Wilts, a mineral spring there discovered by      Toland, his notice of Aubrey, and of Dr. Garden's

    Aubrey, 16                                             letters, 7
Seymour (Charles Lord), his friendship for Aubrey,
                                                        Topography, Aubrey's merits in, 4
    16, 30, 80
                                                             INDEX.                                                                         131

Trinity College, Oxford, Aubrey's intended bequest                   Gore, and others, 34 its cheese and cloth famous
                                                                                            4, ;
to 34 expense of the new buildings adverted to                       in the 17th century, 58    ;
by
    it,                        by                            Wiseman, Mistress Mary, Aubrey's intended legacy;
            ;                                   ;                                                              ;;
                                                                                                                   by ; a
                         ;
                            a
      Newton, 56 noticed       Aubrey, 14 Aubrey
                                                   by ;
entered there as gentleman commoner, 29                   ;          to her, 34 his addresses to her, 40
                                                                     ;
                                                             Wood, Edward a, brother of Anthony Wood, 43;

Vander Gucht, his engraved portrait of Aubrey, 82            Wood, Anthony a, his prejudiced account of Aubrev
                                                                42; his friendship for him until 1693, 16, 42,

Warton, Thomas, and William Huddesford, their                        43 their first correspondence, 43 subsequent

List of Aubrey's manuscripts referred to, Pref.                      letters quoted, 48, 52, 118, 119; his literary ob

viii                                                                 ligations to Aubrey,     44, 47, 51, 52, 55/*, Lives

Warton notices Aubrey's Mon. Brit. his Life of                       of Eminent Men, compiled for him                      Aubrey, 55       by ;

Bathurst, Pref. vii, 88, 94                                          he mutilates that MS., 67, 68 other MSS.

Warton, Thomas, his notices of Aubrey's Lives and                    Aubrey in his custody, 61, 62 his History of

Correspondence, 99, 100; furnished Malone with                       Oxford, 43, 47, 51, 52, 77 translation and inter

extracts from Aubrey's papers, 102                                   polations in by Fell, 52--77; his defence against
                                                                                     it

Wheldon, Thomas, his letters to Aubrey respecting                    Gadbury's complaint, 67 his death, 69; his alleged
                                                                     libel on Lord Clarendon, ib.; his perverted notices
Hobbes, 54

Whitson, Alderman, Aubrey's godfather, 25 his                        of Aubrey and others, 70

local patriotism, 26                                         Woodstock, mysterious noises heard there, 31
                                                             Wren, Sir Christopher, his survey of Salisbury Ca
Whitgift, Archbishop, 22
Wills. Draught of Aubrey's will (1652--9), 33;                       thedral, 97

   another as to papers (1686), 60                           Wyld, Edmund, patronizes Aubrey, 15, 16, 43, 113;
Willis, Browne, his erroneous note of Aubrey's
                                                                     Remains         Gentilisme dedicated to him,
                                                                              of

                                                                                                                                        16

burial, 74

Wiltshire Topographical Society           similar project    Yatton-Keynel, Aubrey at school there, 27
                               it                            Yorke, William, engaged on the Topography of Wilt
entered upon  by  Aubrey, 34      ;
                                       a                        shire, 34
Wiltshire, historical account of begun             Aubrey,

                                                                       London:

                               J. B. Nichols and Son, Printers, 25, Parliament Strekt.
                                                3 2044 019 027 788
   IE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED
AN OVERDUE FEE IF THIS BOOK IS
NOT RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON
OR BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED
BELOW. NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE
BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES.

     Harvard College Widener Library
Cambridge, MA 021 38 (61 7) 495-241 3

                            4
£s- z

 

  

  I

