Memoir of William Allen, F.R.S. / by James Sherman.

Sherman, James, 1796-1862.
Philadelphia : Longstreth, [1851]
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nnc1.cr00289167

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
From the Library of a Friend.

                            PRESENTED BY

    The Book and Tract Committee

                                          OF

  The Religious Society of Friends,

                   NEW YORK.
         MEMOIR

                                            OF

WILLIAM ALLEN, F.R.S.

       By JAMES SHERMAN,

                          MINISTER OF SURREY CHAPEL.

                      PHILADELPHIA :
              HENRY LONGSTRETH,

                                         No. 738 SANSOSC ST,
LIBRAE               ' THE
                      ;ITY
  rn
                  _
NEW Y-

          PRESE.
             PREFACE.

   FEW men have deserved to have their character and
efforts more widely diffused than William Allen. He
was a " man greatly beloved" by a large circle of
scientific, benevolent, and religious persons, who,
during the period in which he lived, took the lead in
endeavoring to emancipate the human mind from the
shackles of ignorance and bigotry. His time and
heart were devoted, for a long series of years, to
obtain freedom for the slave, education for the chil
dren of the poor, relief for consciences oppressed by
ecclesiastical rule, and discipline calculated to reform
as well as punish the guilty. His chemical experi
ments and philosophical lectures contributed greatly
to banish erroneous notions, and to enlarge the circle
of sound knowledge, among professional and studious
persons ; while his industry, self-denial, and piety, shed
a lustre on his character, furnish an example to all, and
show how much may be accomplished for the good
of others by one ardent, intelligent mind .'

   His " Life, with Selections from his Correspondence,"

was published in 1846, by his relatives, in three closely

                                            (iii)
IV PREFACE.

printed octavo volumes. That it was highly valued
was proved by the sale of two thousand copies. Its
bulk and price, however, prevented the extensive
circulation which it deserved among persons of small
means, and with but little time at command. Much
of the information contained in the three previous
volumes being purely denominational, or connected
with incidents of every day life, both in business and
religious experience, it was found, might be omitted

without injury to the deceased. A volume exhibiting

his principal characteristics, and his efforts to serve

his Saviour, and to benefit the human family, appears
more likely to be useful to general readers. The

present Memoir, undertaken at the request of Mr.
Allen's friends, is an effort to condense what is calcu

lated to inform and cheer all who take an interest in

well directed efforts to save the souls, and improve the
condition of their neighbors. The volume will be

found not a mere abridgement, as the greater part has

been entirely re-written. It is cast into the treasury
of knowledge, by the writer, as a mite which, he trusts,
will be accepted and owned by the Gracious Master
whom Mr. Allen served, and as a testimony of affec
tionate regard for him whom he was permitted to

call his friend.

                   J. SHERMAN.

SURREY PARSONAGE,
   May 16, 1851.
                   CONTENTS.

                   CHAPTER I.

His Early History              i· · ·                       I

                          CHAPTER II.                       9
                                                           20
Entrance into Business -- Marriage and Death of his Wife,

                         CHAPTER III.

....His Partnership and Extended Labors,
                             CHAPTER IV.
Second Marriage --Anti-Slavery and Educational Efforts,    48

                              CHAPTER V.          of the
Labors in the Various Institutions --Publication
                                                           72
      " Philanthropist,"

                             CHAPTER VI.                    99
                                                           121
New Lanark, and Interview with theJJmperor of Russia,

British and                 CHAPTER VII.
       Affairs,
                 Foreign School Society -- Duke of Kent's

                          CHAPTER VIII.                    . 144

Visit to Pyrmont, and De,ath of his Second Wife, .

                             CHAPTER IX.
First Efforts in Ministry, and Visit to Lanark, . .176

                   (v)
VI CONTENTS.

                      CHAPTER X.

Journey to Norway and Sweden                              192

                      CHAPTER XI.

Visit to Petersburg,                                      224

                      CHAPTER XII.

Visit to the Mennonites and German Colonies,  . . 264

                      CHAPTER XIII.

Journey through Turkey and Italy to England, .            . 295

                      CHAPTER XIV.

Interviews with the Emperor of Russia, at Vienna, and

Verona,                                                   327

                             CHAPTER XV.
Return from Verona -- Death of his Daughter, and Third

Marriage,                                                 370

                            CHAPTER XVI.
Death of his Mother --Visits Prussia, Austria, and Hun

gary,                                                     404

                      CHAPTER XVII.

Visit to Spain                                            \M

                         CHAPTER XVIII.                   463

Death of his Wife, and Visit to Ireland

                      CHAPTER XIX.

Various Incidents, including a Journey to Prussia, from

1837 to 1840                                              485

                            CHAPTER XX.                   502

Death of his Niece -- His Last Illness, and Happy Death,

                      CHAPTER XXI.

Summary of Mr. Allen's Characteristics,       . . . 516
        MEMOIR

WILLIAM ALLEN, ESQ., F.R.S.

                       CHAPTER I.                         N

                              HIS EARLY HISTORY.

   GENIUS, like its glorious Author, cannot long be

concealed. A spring pressed with a weight of super

incumbent earth, which hinders its rising in the spot
nearest its source, will permeate the soil till it finds
some cranny through which it can work its way to
the surface, and when observed become a blessing to
many a traveller; and a mind eminently endowed
often meets with impediments, which, like blocks of
granite, seem to arrest its course, yet apparently unim
portant providential events open paths for its develop
ment, so that it rises unexpectedly to bless the world
with its influence.

   This was remarkably illustrated in the subject of
this memoir. His parents belonged to a religious
community which had no immediate connection with.
2  HIS PARENTS.  [1770.

the objects to which his genius inclined ; his education

was carried on according to the straitest sect amongst

their instructors; his father's hopes and determination
were that his son should follow the business in which

he had obtained a competent livelihood ; a pious
mother had abundant fears lest a more public life

should make him forget the God whose name she had
taught him to reverence, and the almost impassable
distance which the habits and peculiarities of Friends

interpose between those educated in their principles
and the circles of royalty and fashion, seemed, to an

ordinary observer of events, the very reverse of the

pathway to the elevation he afterwards attained, and
to present obstacles to its possession which little less

than a miracle could remove.

   Job Allen, the father of William, was born at
Scrooby, in Nottinghamshire, and after his settlement
in London became a manufacturer of silk in Spital-
fields. His wife Margaret descended from an Irish
family of the city of Cork, whose name was Stafford.
They were both members of the religious Society of

Friends, and bore an irreproachable character for their
integrity, piety, and domestic training. They had
four sons, of whom William was the eldest. He was

born 29th August, 1770, and became a special charge
to his affectionate parents, who, as soon as he could un
derstand, commenced a system of tender yet judicious
restraint, and of wise and cheerful instruction, which

made religion attractive. They taught him to value
scripture truth, and to love the society of those who
were its advocates, and especially to take heed to the
convictions of the Holy Spirit as the best check to vice
1784.]  YOUTHFUL GENIUS.  3

and the safest guide to truth. His mother was a pre
eminently godly woman, to whose watchful care and
early inculcation of great religious principles William
Allen owed, as he was ever ready to acknowledge,

much of his future elevation. " I well remember the

deep religious solicitude which my honored and be
loved mother felt for her children ; how she used to

collect us round her in her chamber, when we were

very young, and talk to us in terms adapted to our

capacity, of the things which belong to the everlasting
kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ."

   It also appears that he was favored in childhood with

a pious schoolmistress, who deepened and sustained

the godly instructions of his parents. An incident in

her daily tuition made a deep impression on his tender

mind. It was her practice before her pupils were dis

missed, to make them stand around her, holding each

other's hands, and say the Evening Hymn. In after
years, as these scenes in the days of his childhood

were occasionally brought to his remembrance, he

would describe with grateful animation the feelings

of infantile devotion, which even then, at times filled

his heart and brought tears into his eyes as he repeated

the impressive verses.
    In boyhood he evinced much of that activity cf

thought and energy in execution, which so remarkably-

characterized his later years; yet his health was deli

cate and required purer air than that of London. II ·

was sent to Mr. Alexander's school at Rochester,
where he regained his vigor, and by whose instruction-;
he not only increased his knowledge, but did not lore
the benefit of his pious training. His stay at this
4  EARLY PIETY.  [1788.

school was very brief, and the education he received,

though enough to qualify him to pursue his father's

business, was far from that usually styled liberal. He
very early, however, gave indications of a genius which
enabled him to surmount this disadvantage. His taste

for philosophical pursuits began to develop itself; he

had a particular predilection for chemistry, and was

persevering in his efforts to obtain an experimental
knowledge of this science. Astronomy was also a
favorite pursuit, and at the age of fourteen he had

himself constructed a telescope with which he could
see the satellites of Jupiter. In describing this cir
cumstance he said, that " not being strong in cash,"

he was obliged to go economically to work ; he accord
ingly purchased an eye piece and object glass, for
which he paid one shilling ; he then bought a sheet of

pasteboard, which cost twopence, and having made
his tubes, and adjusted his glasses, he found, to his
great delight, that the moons were visible. Thus for
fourteen pence he obtained a source of enjoyment, the
recollection of which always afforded him pleasure.

    The cultivation of his mind and his philosophical

attainments were happily united with sound Christian
principle, and subjected to the authority of God's
word. He was singularly watchful lest the allure

ments of science should beguile his heart from love to
Gcd or adherence to the simple truths of the Gospel ;
and his example is an encouraging instance of the
efficacy ol that grace by which he was enabled, through
a long course of years, steadily and consistently to
pursue the path of piety and usefulness. It accounts
also for the singular fact, that men addicted to scien-
1789.]  EARLV PIETY.  5

tific pursuits generally become averse to religion,
either because its claims are neglected through the
engrossing nature of their subjects, or by the influence
of evil associates, they yield too readily to science the

glory which is due only to God.

    One means by which he kept his heart with dili
gence, and which has furnished memoranda for a
connected life, was to record the principal events of
his history, both secular and religious, in a diary which
he commenced at seventeen years of age, and sustained
with unwearied perseverance for above half a century.
The very first entries distinctly indicate the character
that was in process of formation. They are brief, but

pointed and spiritual :

   " iqth First Month, 1j88. -- Experienced some degree
of comfort in striving against evil thoughts."

   " 20th.-- I went to RatclifT to take leave of my

cousin. Worldly conversation was a burden to her,

and to my dear mother, whose attention was fixed on

higher objects. I must take part of the blame on

myself."
    He regrets that he was " impatient on disappoint

ment," but rejoices that he was " soon calmed." He
resolves to " spend no time unprofitably." He expe
 riences " how happy is the state of those who are led
 and guided by the Spirit of truth, the inward moni
tor." He exclaims, " O for a continuance of that

sweetness which I at times feel a taste of, raising my

 affections towards that which is good."
     He adopted, with great decision, the principles in

 which he had been educated, but without bitterness
 against other divisions of the family of Christ. The
6                REGARD FOR MINISTERS.          [1790.

ministers among the Friends endeared themselves

much to him, not only by their public addresses,

which he states were often accompanied with "a

divine sweetness," but by taking the opportunity of

conversing with him     when they visited his parents.
   " Advised            Pemberton to be faithful in small
things." "     by John  and C. Hustler carne to see my
              R. Jones
father, and had religious service in the family. R. J.
advised me, at parting, to be very careful what com

pany I kept, and added, that if I kept the truth, the

truth would keep me." " James Thornton remarked,
in one of his religious communications, that every act

of obedience to  the  Divine requiring brings   streOnfgth"   ;
and every act         disobedience, weakness."
                 of                                          a
youths' quarterly meeting " at which James
and John Pemberton were present, he says,       Thornton

                                                " I do be

lieve that the presence of the Lord overshadowed us.

IJohn Pemberton came to see us after meeting.

greatly enjoyed his company, having a savour of good

upon my mind, attained at the above-mentioned meet
ing. How much more pleasant is a review of the

time spent in such society as his, than in that passed
in the company of persons who have no sense of

religion." It is a pretty sure omen of future great

ness when a youth of scientific mind voluntarily pre
fers the society of spiritual guides, to that of those

who, however learned, have no piety ; and places the
salvation of the soul above the fondest pursuits of

literature.

   Two little incidents, pleasantly related, show how

strong a hold religious influence had on his heart, and

how the perseverance which afterwards signalized the
1790.]  INCIDENTS OP YOUTH.  7

man, began to develope itself in a comparatively small

matter. He states :--

   " G. Dilhvyn was at our meeting this afternoon, and

towards the close spoke in ministry; chiefly address

ing the poor in spirit, yet aptly observing, that there

were some people who were poor, and yet would
neither work nor beg ; ' such,' he said, ' were a burden

to the community.' O ! thought I, had I but a house
to entertain thee, how gladly would I do it ; but it

seemed retorted upon me, ' Thou hast a tabernacle
capable of receiving his master, why dost thou keep

him out?'"
   The other is the following: --
   " When I reflect upon the tyranny and oppression

exercised by my countrymen towards the poor Afri

cans, and the many thousands yearly murdered in the

Idisgraceful Slave-Trade, can but be a zealous op-

poser of slavery ; and, indeed, I have been so for a

long time, as far as lay in my power--yet one step

farther may be taken by me, which is wanting to

complete my testimony in this respect, and which, if

universally adopted, would inevitably put a stop to

this enormous evil, and that is, disusing those com
modities procured by the labor of slaves. And as

sugar is undoubtedly one of the chief, I resolve,

through Divine assistance, to persevere in the disuse

of it until the Slave-Trade shall be abolished."
   To this resolution he steadfastly adhered for up

wards of forty-three years, until the Abolition Bill
passed ; when he again resumed the use of sugar.

    Some sentences in his diary show by what moral
8  MORAL PRINCIPLES.                                             [1790.

principles he aimed, as a young man, to guide his life

and establish his character.
   " Morning. -- Very much perplexed with my work ;

but resolved to exert myself in it to day, and to report

the consequence."

  " Evening. --The consequence was, that I got for

warder in it than for several days past."

   " Beware of a spirit of pride in forming a judgment

of things of which, through ignorance, thou art not

qualified to judge. In short, it is safer to consider

well, and not be hasty in judgment."

   "There appears to me such a meanness and low-

Iness of disposition in those who are cruel to animals,

that I think could not put confidence in them, even

in the common concerns of life."

  "Too much resented a reproof; a sure sign that I

needed and had too high an estimation of self."
   " Spend no time unprofitably, as thou hast known
   it,
                        it
                                       it
                                              is
the want and value of when                        past recall."
                      CHAPTER II.

ENTRANCE INTO BUSINESS MARRIAGE, AND DEATH OF

                                       HIS WIFE.

   IT was not likely that a youth of W. Allen's genius,

perseverance, and piety, should long escape the obser

vation of some scientific mind, who would turn his

talents to advantage, and assist him in his future pro

gress. As the manufacture of silk was a very profita
ble business, Job Allen designed to associate William
with himself in carrying it on, but the occupation did

not accord with his inclination, and though he was
dutiful, diligent, and attentive, his mind was intent
upon the pursuits in which he was afterwards pro
fessionally engaged. Joseph Gurney Bevan, who had
prospered as a chemist, introduced him at the age of
about twenty-one, into his establishment at Plough-

court, where, under the able superintendance of that

excellent man, he was soon promoted to a responsible
situation. This was a great disappointment to his
father; yet seeing the decided bias of his son's mind,
he acquiesced in the measure, and ultimately became
fully satisfied. By William Allen the step was taken
with much thoughtfulness, and prayer for Divine
direction, and proved the opening to that career of
extensive usefulness which marked his subsequent

course.

                                                        (9)
10  MINISTERIAL SOLICITUDE.  [1793.

   A chasm of two years now occurs in his diary,

 arising doubtless from incessant occupation in his new
 and important situation. When, however, he resumes
 the exercise, it appears that he is devoting himself
 with commendable zeal, not only to his business, but
 to the acquisition of chemical, medical, and literary

 knowledge.

    1793 --" I have attended some of Higgins' lectures,

 learnt something of short-hand and the new system
 of chemistry, and instituted a plan for my future

 studies."

    In the spring-tide of his energies, it was his singu
lar privilege to have Samuel Emlen, a devoted minister
of the Society of Friends, to reside six months with
him at Ploughcourt, and though he laments that " at
tending to dear Samuel Emlen broke in upon his
medical career," yet it is evident the advantages he
gained by the judicious advice and pious exhortations
of that man of God, in establishing his religious prin
ciples and checking the temptations incident to a
literary life, more than counterbalanced all his medical
losses. And so William thought on reflection. He
thus estimates the privilege : " Samuel Emlen has
lodged with us during the last half year ; his company

and friendly notice have been very reviving and con
solatory to me. He spoke as closely to my state as

if I had unbosomed myself to him. O the mercy, the

condescension of the great Master, to commission his
servant to say a word to me, and a word of consola

tion too, when I am sensible that I deserve not the

least of his mercies, but rather condemnation and

reproof."
1795.]  CHEMICAL SOCIETY.      11

   " Yesterday Samuel Emlen, in his kind solicitude
for my best interests, exhorted me to ' dare to do

right.' I accompanied him to Ratcliff Meeting, and

had great satisfaction in it. He preached for a con
siderable time, dwelling much on the words, ' My

people shall never be ashamed.' After meeting he

sweetly desired me to remember this text, and said

he did believe that Jesus loved me. I was almost

overwhelmed under a humiliating sense of my great
unworthiness, yet comforted in the evidence of infinite

condescension and love."

   In his review of the year 1793, the second he had
occupied in his new business and habitation, it is

evident that his philosophic studies had been kept

subordinate to his eternal interests, and that his piety

had advanced rather than receded.

   " Much depressed, during part of this year, with

doubts and fears whether I was in my right place;
but, after a season of great conflict, I was permltted to

feel the consolations of the Spirit of God in a manner
marvellous to myself: the clouds disappeared -- the

tempest ceased to assail my habitation, and quietness

and confidence possessed my soul. For this, and for
other touches of his love, vouchsafed to me, who am
so unworthy, I hope to be ever grateful."

   After attending several meetings of the Chemical
Society at Guy's Hospital, on the 3d of April, 1795,
he was elected a member, and contributed much to its

usefulness. In the same year Mr. Bcvan resigned the
business at Plough-courtwholly to William and another

gentleman, with whom he entered into partnership.

His engagements had therefore become more re»pop-~

                          hvi
12               INDEFATIGABLE INDUSTRY.  [1796.

sible, and having in addition opened a laboratory at

Plaistow, his time was more than ever occupied. For

several months his diary is neglected, but it reopens

with this  memorandum on the date of July 3, 1795 :
" Entered
           physician's pupil at Thomas' Hospital." In

October he was elected a member of the Physical

Society at Guy's Hospital, where he practiced among
the patients with encouraging success. This is one

of his characteristic records : " Went to the hospital --
received the thanks of a poor sick patient, which did

me more good than a guinea fee."
   The year 1796 he commenced with the following

noble resolution, to thecarrying out of which his sub
sequent conduct bore ample evidence : " Resolved to
endeavor by all means to acquire more firmness of

character, and more indifference to what even my

nearest friends may think of me, in the pursuit of what

I believe to be right -- to do nothing to be seen of

men --to avoid every species of craft or dissimulation --

to spend more time my own room, in reading and
                 in,
retirement."
                             is

                                                                                                :
    The day did not yield sufficient time for the various

duties in which his ardent mind was engaged, and
therefore we have several notices in January of his

sitting up all night, making experiments and prepar
ing for lectures. The date not recorded when he

delivered his first lecture, but on the 28th January,

being then only twenty-six years of age, he writes --

" Gave my second lecture this evening on attraction."

These tecturcs were generally delivered to scientific

and learned audiences, and required a great amount

of preparation.
1796.]  GLOOMY TIMES.  13

   It was at this time he united with other young men

to form a philosophical society, called the " Askcsian
Society," which, as its name imports, was intended by

its members to improve themselves mutually by philo
sophical exercises. The objects were to elucidate by
experiment, either facts generally understood, or to
examine and repeat any novel discoveries. The meet

ings were held twice every month, at Plough-court,
during the winter season. Each member, in turn, was

expected to produce a paper for reading and discussion,
upon some subject of scientific (not literary) inquiry ;
and many of these papers were afterwards published
in Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine. Amongst the
early members were William Allen, William Phillips,
Luke Howard, Joseph Fox, Henry Lawson, Arthur

Arch, W. H. Pepys, and Samuel Woods, the last of
whom was President. Astley Cooper, Dr. Babington,
A. Tilloch, Joseph Woods, jun., and several others

afterwards joined the society, which continued for

twenty years, and fully answered its original objects,

in exciting and maintaining the desire for knowledge,
and the habits of inquiry and accurate investigation.

    Nor must we forget the times in which all this was
achieved. War was raging over the continent of
 Europe -- the French were pushing their conquests
everywhere. Holland was at that time in their hands,
and their antipathy to the rising power of England

 alarmingly great; consequently bread rose to one

 shilling and three half-pence per quartern loaf, and all
 kinds of provision became enormously .dear, so that

 commerce was crippled, and increasing risks demanded
 double care. William Allen saw the danger, but thus
14:                        GLOOMY TIMES.                    [1796.

sustains his mind and braces his energies :--·" The

aspect of times is very gloomy, and the risk I run in
business great. I can hardly look forward with the
expectation of anything but difficulty and danger. I
believe I may say, that I never doubted, but have full

confidence in the sufficiency of Divine power. ' What

shall harm you if ye be followers of that which is

good ? ' The lines of Thomson seem a peculiarly

appropriate motto for me, under present circumstan
ces :--
         "  ' Like
             Like   Cato,  firm ; like Aristides, just  ;"
                    rigid  Cincinnatus, nobly poor.'

     Yet, in the midst of overwhelming engagements,

Mr. Allen could find time and inclination for courting.

His affections had for some time been fixed on Mary

Hamilton, the excellent daughter of John and Eliza
beth Hamilton of Redruth, and he had been accepted
by her as a suitor. But as " the course of true love

never did run smooth," we are not surprised at finding
such a record in his diary, as, " Disappointed in my

expectations of a letter from my dear M. H. this morn

ing. Very low to-day, and oppressed with a variety

of concerns." His philosophy, however, helped him

over his difficulty, and with attempted composure he

proceeds : --" S. W. called on me. I told him I was

low and overdone. He put me in mind of the answer

of the famous De Witt to a query, how he got through
so much business in a day ? ' By doing one thing at

once, and having finished proceeding in like manner
              I
                             iIf I it,

                                                j
to another.'        do think that should get on with

much less embarrassment,   arranged my matters

in the morning, and plodded through them on by one,
1796.]            HIS MARRIAGE.                            15

keeping my whole attention fixed to that with which

I am occupied at the time." True, that is an excel

lent maxim for ordinary affairs, but it is very difficult

for a lover who has been disappointed in a letter from

his lady, to keep his whole attention fixed on his busi

ness. And so William Allen with all his philosophy

found it.

   His affection was repaid by the consummation of his
desires on the 1 3th of November, 1796. His notice
of this important act of his life, shows with what right-

heartcdncss  and  piety he entered upon the new relation
                  Our marriage was celebrated this day
of husband;  --"

at Tottenham Meeting. Dear Thomas Scattergood

was there, and seemed commissioned to hold out the

language of encouragement, to us particularly, in an

extraordinary manner. It was a time never to be for

gotten; and he hinted that it might be encouragingly

adverted to hereafter, in low seasons. My mind was

unusually humbled and tendered. My precious Mary

seemed equally sensible, that it might emphatically be
termed ' a good day.' "

With a loving heart and a mind tending to depres

sion, few men were more fitted to value and enjoy the

society and converse of an affectionate and intelligent

wife, such as it was his happiness to have gained ; and

those who knew him at that period state that his bliss

seemed to overflow. His own statement confirms
their report :--" My dearest companion
           !                                             next to

                                                    I is,
Divine consolation, the greatest comfort enjoy."
But alas the fleeting character of all sublunary bless

ings was soon manifest. He was not long permitted

to possess the delight and solace of this precious
16  DEATH OF HIS WIFE.  [1797.

treasure. On the 6th of September, 1797, she gave
birth to a daughter; and on the i ith, four days only
after her accouchement, her spirit was summoned to
put on immortality. From the testimonies of her
friends, for some time previous her mind had been
preparing for the summons, and as the event ap
proached, had enjoyed increased communion with her
Lord. She literally fell asleep in Jesus; and her
blessed and happy spirit, freed from the tabernacle
of the flesh, saw Him whom she loved more clearly,
and walked with Him more uninterruptedly in the

upper sanctuary.

  It will easily be believed that Mr. Allen truly

describes his own feelings when he states that his
" tortured heart felt, as it were, the extremity of grief.''

All that kindness and sympathy could impart, were

poured into his spirit by his attached friends; but
though " Joseph G. Bevan possessed the faculty of
sympathy in an eminent degree ;" and, " Mary Stacy
was made a minister of consolation indeed "-- none

but those who have been called to pass through such
scenes, can imagine or comprehend the disappoint
ment, loss, want, loneliness, and sorrow, which such a
bereavement creates. His touching references to her,
and his own feelings under the stroke, can scarcely be
read without deep emotion, which shows with how
much they were written:

  " O how I loved her-- how we loved each other ! I

paid some attention to business to-day; but how

heavily it went on ! The long line of years which I

may probably have to traverse, presents a gloomy

prospect, and I fear lest I should be drawn aside from
1797.]         REFLECTIONS ON THE EVENT.   17

what I see and believe to be right, and so the design
of the Almighty, in administering this truly bitter cup,

be, with regard to me, frustrated. After dinner, my

Idear mother and I were alone, and opened my mind

to her, stating my great fears about myself; but she

comforted me with the assurance, that it was sealed

upon her mind that this affliction was sent to bring

me nearer to the source of good. My spirit was much

humbled, and more serene during the rest of the day.

I have thought that when the glory which shall be

revealed is tasted, the greatest affliction we can suffer
below, will, in comparison, appear trifling. O my

soul ! under all thy tribulations, constantly keep in

view, that in that city towards which thou wishest to

direct thy course, all tears shall be for ever wiped
away, and that there thy dearest Mary is a joyful

inhabitant."

   His rides and drives had lost much ol their interest

from the want of one who participated in   the pleasure.
                                           occurs, what
   " When I see a fine prospect, it often
interest I should have taken in showing it to her.

What sublime pleasure is received by reflection from

another, --that is, in the sense of making another

happy."
   " This road brings the idea of my precious, my most

endeared companion, strongly before me. How often
have we, in sweet harmony, travelled it together ! How

my soul was united to her.
         " ' And is it then to live when such friends part ?

             "Pis the survivor dies.'

   " I hope I do not repine, though my trial is exceed

ingly great."
18     PIOUS RESOLUTION.                               [1797.

    His child was spared, and her presence sometimes

mitigated his sorrows; but his feelings were often

overpowered with the sight of this pledge of their

love. " I could not bear to nurse her long -- O ! I

thought, how we should have enjoyed her together.
It is a sweet infant ; I am afraid of getting too much
attached to it ; but if any accident befal
                                            it,     my suffer
                                               it is
ings would be intense."

    Though his health suffered, and his spirits were

distressingly depressed, the sanctified use of this trial

was granted to him in answer to prayer, and was

doubtless one of the mysterious preparations of the

Great Master for the honor which He intended to put

upon His afflicted servant. How beautiful the fol

lowing record, written in one of these seasons of deep

depression and discouragement    : perish, shall be

   " My resolution has been, that iIf
                                        I
at the footstool of my God, though have been at

times afraid to call Him so, or to use the term Father.

In the afternoon, had relieving opportunity with
       I
my dear mother, who comforted me much. Sitting
            O
quietly by the fire, and endeavoring to direct my
                        !
mind towards the source of all good, was favored toI
                    a
feel a little calm, and was sensible of a degree of

Divine support. It will be well for me often to retire

to wait upon the Lord, that my spiritual strength may

be renewed. And          saith my soul, may never
                                                    I

love anything more than Him, but be favored to keep

everything in subordination, yea, under my feet. .     O

that may be now wholly devoted to Him and His
    I

cause, being careful for nothing, but how to fill up my

duty from time to time."
1797.]  SUSTAINING CONSOLATIONS.  19

   It often occurs, that persons whose piety is ardent,

and whose constitution tends to despondency, are

favored above others with corresponding joys; and

Mr. Allen experienced that, if his afflict ion pressed

heavily upon his sensitive mind, God favored him

occasionally with remarkable visions of His glory.
At times, he seems taken to the Mount of Transfigura
tion, to see the glory and grace of his Saviour, and at
others to Mount Nebo to view the promised land, not
as Moses did, without the prospect of entering but

as his own inheritance, to which he was hastening.
Hear him describe one of these morning visions:

    " seemed to have somewhat of sight and feeling
of the disposition which prevailed in heaven such a
unity-- such a lamb-like spirit -- such a profound
peace no jar, no contention, nothing wrathful there
Such dispositions appeared diametrically opposite to
those which prevailed in the kingdom of God. saw

that the world could not comprehend this state, and
strong were my desires that might be kept out of

its parties, its noises, and its bustles, and be even

esteemed a fool for Christ's sake. It was indeed a

memorable time, and my heart overflowed."
I

      ;

                                I

                                                              a

                                                                                                                     :

                                               I it,
                                                                                                                                                                 !
                      CHAPTER III.

          HIS PARTNERSHIP AND EXTENDKb LABORS.

   As might have been safely predicted, the diligence
and intelligence which William Allen evinced, was
rewarded by a widely extended business. At the
close of the year 1797, the claims of the laboratory,

and the important concerns at Plough-court, had
become so weighty and responsible, that it was found
necessary to make fresh arrangements for carrying
them on with greater efficiency, and a new partner
ship was formed between Luke Howard and William
Allen, under the firm of Allen and Howard. This
left him a little more at liberty with respect to his
business ; but it will be subsequently seen that his
time was improved by innumerable public engage
ments for useful objects, and almost incredible labors.

   Jane Hamilton, the sister of his wife, resided with
him, taking charge of his little one, and superintend
ing his donrcstic concerns. Among other plans for
sustaining the life of godliness, and soothing his
mind, it was her usual practice to read to him after
supper, when he could lay aside his cares and per
plexities, and listen to the narration of the labors,
experience, and sufferings of the early members of
his religious Society. From the time he commenced
housekeeping, he was daily in the practice of assem-

                                                     (20)
1797.]           FAMILY RF.UGION.  21

bling his household for the purpose of reading a

portion of Holy Scripture,  after which, according to
the practice of Friends, a  silent pause 'ensued, " for

recollectedness of mind, and lifting up the heart to

God." All his servants were watched over with

parental care, their master giving each, when needed,

reproof, counsel, and encouragement, with much feel

ing and tenderness. Men whose time are much

occupied oft find excuses for the neglect of family

religion, and the parental care of the spiritual state
of their dependents, but with Mr. Allen it was as

conscientiously performed as any engagement in

business, and one about which he frequently scrutin

ized   himself.  more  narrowly whether thou art per
      Examine
   "

"foSrmtroinngg  thy duty to every branch of this family."

                desires are at this time raised, that I may be

favored to conduct myself in such a manner as to be

a good example to the dear young people under my

care. My prayers are often put up for them in secret,

as well as for myself."

   The privations and distress of the poor, from 1799
to 1802, were most deplorable. In addition to the

sad consequences of war with France, the summers

and autumns of the two last-mentioned years were

extremely wet, and deficient harvests caused bread to

rise to one shilling and fivepence-halfpenny per

quartern loaf, and beef to one shilling per Ib. Other

provisions were necessarily exorbitantly dear, and

many of the poor barely existed. The attention of

two Friends, William Allen and William Phillips, was

specially directed to the means of affording them
22  SOUP SCHEME.  [1797.

relief, and a meeting was called at the house of the
latter, to form a society for supplying the poor with
soup and meat at one penny per quart. Such a
society could now be easily formed, but it was then
entirely novel, and created much discussion both as

to its propriety and advantages, among otherwise
benevolent persons, and it was with some anxiety the

founders entered on their operations. However, a
subscription was immediately commenced, and in the
course of a few days, a committee was formed, sub
committees were appointed, and by a division of labor,
the society was quickly organized. Eligible premises

were procured in Bricklane, Spitalfields, soon adapted
for the purpose, and tickets printed and issued to the

subscribers. On the first day of delivery the visitors
attended under no small anxiety as to the result of
their experiment. It succeeded, however, to their
utmost wish -- the applicants paid the penny per quart
with cheerfulness, and carried home a supply of food
which they could not have prepared of equal quality
themselves for four or five times that sum. At first

the applicants were served with soup every day ; but

the distress being very great, the numbers increased
so rapidly, that the committee were obliged to adopt
the plan of distributing it only every other day to the
same person. There were five boilers in the soup-
house, capable of making from three thousand to
three thousand three hundred quarts, which were
daily distributed to above one thousand persons, their

money taken and their tickets marked, in less than
two hours and a quarter. The effort cost about one

hundred and fifty pounds per week ; which was pro-
1799.]  STUDIES PROSECUTED.                        23

vided for by liberal contributions from various classes,

including public companies. Into this scheme Wil
liam Allen threw all his heart. He thus writes :--

  I" The soup scheme absorbed a large portion of

time last week. At the committee, proposed a plan

of keeping a book, and making domiciliary visits to

the cases, but was negatived on account of the trouble.

I felt rather hurt on the occasion, one of my opponents
having expressed triumph ; but I was principally

grieved on account of being disappointed in the

attempt to carry the plan to the greatest perfection of

which it is capable. O, that self were more reduced !

it is this which gives us pain on contradiction. More

comforted in my vesper than I expected."

   The next day he writes : " My irritation on the

soup business subsided, and I acknowledged myself

wrong, in pressing too earnestly what I yet conceive

to be an excellent measure. Act steadily to one point,

viz., thy duty, and neither seek the favor nor fear the

frowns of man."
   Again : " Soup committee not over till past nine,

and a trying one ; I gave way too much to the spirit
of debate, and hurt myself by as felt uncomfort
        ;I

             I

                                     it
                                            is

                                              it,

                                         I
able in settling accounts with myself at night."

   " 28th. -- went round among the applicants for
soup--visited fourteen -- many of them wretchedly

miserable and am now firmly of the opinion that

the soup has saved the lives of many."

During the period which  intended this chapter

should survey, he prosecuted his studies in chemistry,

natural philosophy, medical science, mathematics and

botany, with surprising ardor and perseverance. A
24  CHEMICAL F.XPKRJMENTS.  [1800.

slight sketch only of liis operations can be given, but
that will suffice to show how intent he was on both
getting good and doing good. He attended almost
daily the lectures of the principal men of his time,
and took very minute notes of them. Chemistry, as
a science, was but beginning to attract attention, and
though many of the experiments then made are now
common to every well-educated person, they were
then discoveries; and were as attractive to polite and

learned assemblies as more recent discoveries are still.

At those experiments Mr. Allen and his friend Pepys,

whose assistance he frequently acknowledges, con
stantly labored. Take a few of his notes for the year

17"9I7:--am making great progress in chemical experi

ments -- fused platina with oxygen on charcoal."
"Resolved to study pharmacy, regularly making all
the experiments one by one --two or three experi
ments in a week." " Entered perpetual pupil at

Cooper's lectures at the Hospital."
   "Freezing experiments with W. H. Pcpys; we at

tempted to freeze fifty-six pounds of quicksilver. I

am not sure it was all solid, though some present
seemed to think it was."

   " Entered perpetual pupil to Haighton's Physiology.

After his lecture went to Cooper's -- Wounds of Arter
ies --extremely overdone."

   The review of a week is thus given : --
   " Study was suspended by a press of business ; at
tended, however, four Anatomical Lectures, --two
Surgery, there being no more this week, -- one Physi-
1800.]  EXPERIMENT ON RESPIRATION.                   25

ology, prevented attending both by a sale, and the

Physical Society at Guy's."  following   attendance  of

  A later week gives the

lectures :--

"Anatomy, six lectures; Physiology, two; Surgi

cal, three; Chronic Diseases, one. Assisted in form

ing the British Mincralogical Society."

The next year, 1800, found him equally indefatiga
"Able. Of his studies he says :
                                 grand object with

me is to perfect myself in the study of medicine, also

in Latin." In reference to his attendance at the
Hospital, he writes : " Copied out cases, and attended
more to my mind than I have ever done before."

Many experiments were carried on at Plough-

court, not only for his own improvement, but for Dr.
Fordyce and others, and some of them, as the follow

ing, rather unpleasant and dangerous.

   " 2jth. -- Experiments on respiration. -- Present, Ast-
ley Cooper, Dr. Bradley, Allen of Edinburgh, the

two Lawsons and J. Fox. We all breathed the
gaseous oxide of azote. It took a surprising effect

on me, abolishing completely at first all sensation ;

then I had the idea of being carried violently up

ward in a dark cavern, with only a few glimmering
lights. The company said my eyes were fixed, face

purple, veins in the forehead veiy large, apoplectic

stertor, etc. They were all much alarmed, but I

suffered no pain, and in a short time came to

myself."

   As his talents became known, increasing demands

were made upon his time and attention. Both for

eigners and his own countrymen referred to him for
26  ASKESIAN SOCIETY.  [1801.

chemical analysis, and solicited him to perform ex
periments which required great skill and accuracy.
Plough-court became distinguished as an excellent
repository for chemical re-agents, a subject to which
he had turned his attention with peculiar success.
Professor Pictet, of Geneva, obtained from him a

valuable selection, and thus writes to him from

Paris :-- " My charming collection of chemical re

agents was exhibited lately to the National Institute
here, and the chemical members took great notice
of it."

   As if he had not enough to engage his attention,
he proposed, at the close of 1801, to deliver gratui
tously a course of lectures at Plough-court to the
members of the Askesian Society, with other friends

who were invited to attend. These lectures became

so popular, and the audiences so increased, that it was
with difficulty they could crowd into the room On

December 3d, he writes :--
   " At seven o'clock I gave my first lecture on chem

istry. Dr. Rolph, Astley Cooper, Dr. Bradley, T.
Poole, etc., etc., attended ; there were about sixty

present in all. I got through beyond my expecta
tions, but I was very low about it before I began."

    The lecturer introduced his subject with a very

modest exordium, and then stated :--

   " From my professional engagements I have neces

Isarily a large quantity of mechanical apparatus ; this,

in the absence of more important subjects, purpose

gradually to bring forward in our meetings, and en

deavor to give, during the present session, as complete
1801.]  LECTURES AT GUY'S HOSPITAL.  27

an idea of the Theory and Practice of Mechanics, as
my ability and the limits of our time will allow."

    Notwithstanding these labors, he always had some
French work on hand, and usually read a portion of
it every day. He had also made considerable pro

gress in German, and devoted some time to drawing,
for both of which he had masters, though German

gave way a little to business and lectures. Notices
several times occur of visits to persons who claimed
the exercise of his medical skill, and his aid on such

occasions was highly beneficial.
   Such was his popularity as a lecturer, that " Dr.

Babington called to offer him a partnership in his
lectures on chemistry at Guy's Hospital." He had

great diffidence and fear about acceding to the pro
posal, and it was not till Astley Cooper, Bevan and

Joseph Fox united their entreaties that he would ac
cept this lucrative appointment. After a week's con

sideration he says, " I went to Dr. Babington's, and

agreed upon giving lectures jointly with him at Guy's
Hospital. We appointed to meet again to arrange
our plans." And this is his account of his first
lecture :--

   " Rose early-- getting ready for experiments at the

Hospital -- I felt distressingly low and anxious -- gave

my first lecture there, at which Drs. Babington and

Curry were present, and Astley Cooper came in. I

got through much to my satisfaction, and apparently

to that of the class. It began and ended with loud

plaudits."

   In the following month he states :--

   " Dr. Babington called for me, and I went with him
28  PROMOTES VACCINATION.           [1803.

to his lecture on the physical properties of water --

made the experiment of composing water for him at

the lecture, the globe being previously filled with

oxygen. It succeeded capitally."
   On another occasion at his lecture he remarks, --

" W. H. Pepys rendered me most essential service.

I had a tight job to get ready --began a little after

eight-- a crowded theatre, 128 at least --showed the
luminous experiments-- all seemed highly delighted."
At the commencement of another course the audience

received him with loud plaudits, which were again re

peated at the close of the lecture, and to his anxious

and fearful mind these public tokens of continued  ap
probation were as he states " very encouraging."
    Towards the conclusion of the year he was " much

occupied in endeavoring to establish an institution for

cow-pox inoculation," and labored incessantly with

Drs. Lettsom, Bradley, Pole, and others, till that noble

institution was in full operation. How much we are

indebted to him and to his noble band of fellow-labor

ers, for their efforts to introduce a remedy for that
awful disease the small-pox, by which the " human
face divine " is freed from the scars which so commonly

disfigured it in his day, can be duly understood only

by those who lived at that period.

    Humphrey Davy, then a rising man in chemical

science, and whose lectures to the Royal Institution

were the most popular of his times, appreciated the
talents of William Allen, and was very anxious to

secure them for the more brilliant assemblies he was
in the habit of addressing. His disinterested regard
1804.1 LECTURES AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                                    29

for him will be seen by the following letter, which the
board of managers requested him to send; -- -

        " DEAR ALLEN,

" Our managers have formed a plan of instituting

different lectures on parts of Natural Philosophy in

the next season. The terms will be liberal. Would

you like to deliver, in the theatre of the Institution,

the course on Natural Philosophy that you have given

at Guy's ? Think about and let me know what your
              I
                  I

                                         it,

                                          I
                                                         I
feelings are.      should have called on you, but have

been ill, and am not yet well. go out of town to

morrow. am, dear Allen, with very great regard,

yours,                                             " H. DAVY."

Drs. Babington, of London, and Dalton of Man

chester, Hatchett, Barnard, and Oriel, strongly advised

him to take part in the lectures, and overruled his

scruples by assurances of his success but was not
              1
                                                             :

                                                                                          ;

                                                                    it
till four months after the invitation was sent that he

could be prevailed on to accept it. On the 24th of
                   804, he writes --
Jan"uSaeryt,  off                     and  twelve  for the                                   Royal
                    between eleven
Institution, to give my first lecture -- introductory and

the general properties of matter. Felt much in pre

senting myself before such an audience, but got on

exceedingly well Hatchett and Sullivan came to me
                   ;

                                                           It
after the lecture." Barnard and Davy sent me con

gratulatory notes. Before the first course was con

cluded, the managers entreated him to give another

course in the spring of the following year.                                                  may
30  SPECIMEN OF LECTURE.  [1804.

 be pleasing to the reader to have a specimen of the

 sound sense and practical truth which the lecturer
 was in the habit of delivering to the fashionable audi

ences of the Royal Institution, when " Albemarle
Street was crowded with carriages." He thus con
cludes his first course :--

    " In this general outline of some of the departments
of natural knowledge, we have abundant opportunity
to remark the traces of a wisdom past human com
prehension, in the wonderful adjustment of all the
parts of creation. How exactly are the moving powers
balanced among each other ! --how admirable the order
which results from their equilibrium ! The agency of

the supreme intelligence is everywhere displayed, in

characters so strong, that he who runs may read.

Those who have most closely exercised their faculties

in exploring these magnificent works, see the least

occasion for exaltation, --the least incitement to pride ;

while they who know a little, but are ignorant how

much remains to be known, are puffed up with imagin

ary consequence, and deserve our pity.

   " We see that, in the works of nature, there is ample
scope for the exercise of our rational faculties ; and

limited as these faculties are, they are strengthened by
use, and worthily employed when we endeavor to

acquaint ourselves with as much of the wonders of
creation as its great Author has permitted us to com
prehend. As we proceed, new discoveries reward our
search, -- the sources of intellectual enjoyment pour
an increasing stream of satisfaction upon the delighted
mind; while sensual gratifications, perishable like their

objects, tend only to enervate the soul, and sink us
1804.]  SPECIMEN OF LECTURE.  31

far below the level of that high station which man is
called to fill in the scale of created beings. The pur
suits of science, properly conducted, tend to enlarge
our views, to banish narrow prejudices, to increase our
love of truth and order, and give tone and vigor to the

mind.

   " Not more distant is heaven from earth, than false

philosophy from the true. A set of wild and extrava

gant notions is not philosophy, though in a neighbor
ing country they have been dignified with the name.
Those pretended philosophers have gloried in denying

the fairest deductions from reason, --the most obvious
truths; but the direful consequences of this perversion
of intellect will long afford an awful and instructive

lesson to mankind.
   " True philosophy is nothing more than real wisdom :

the proper application of our faculties directed solely
to the discovery of truth, which brings beauty, order,
and excellence ; harmonizes the minds of its votaries ;

teaches them to set a proper value on all the produc
tions of the Creator, and leads them to feel even for
the least of his animate beings. These will not put
one of his sensitive creatures to unnecessary pain, and.

rising from the simple polype and the worm to their
fellow-men, will be anxious to employ their knowledge

in diffusing comforts, in diminishing the misery which

many have brought upon themselves ; and, on the
broad scale of universal benevolence, will imitate, as

far as in their power, Him who is constantly diffusing
good. These are the dispositions of the true philoso
pher -- this is the temper of heaven.

   " In such an age as the present, it may be deemed
32  ADDRESS 'IO MEDICAL STUDENTS       '[1804.

superfluous to urge the accumulated evidence we now
possess in favor of the fundamental truths we most
surely believe; but on the juvenile part of the com

munity, who are now forming their opinions, and

beginning to reason for themselves, I wish to impress

this important consequence, deduciblc from the sub
jects which have passed in review before us, that in all
the great powers of nature we observe such marks of
contrivance, such adaptation of cause to effect, and the
whole executed by means so sublimely simple, that
we cannot avoid concluding with Archdeacon Paley,

such designs must have had a designer, and that de
signer must be God !"

   At the conclusion of his course of lectures at Guy's

Hospital, the following most admirable and appropri
ate remarks were addressed to the medical students :

    " As this appears to be the last opportunity I shall

have of addressing many of you collectively, permit

me, before we separate, to offer a few remarks for your

consideration.

   " Several of you having now finished the course of

your studies in this place, are about to enter upon the

wide theatre of the world. The profession which you

               in itself, one of the most respectable
have assumed,  is is,
                          it
                                is
of which man capable. Having carefully studied

the nature of our frame, you have undertaken to soften

the miseries to which               liable. May you, though

in an inferior degree, endeavor to imitate the great
example of Him, who went about doing good, healing

all manner of diseases! In world so full of woe, to
                                    a
1804.]  AT GUY'S HOSPITAL.  33

a noble and generous mind, the opportunity of smooth
ing the brow of care, and drying up the tears of sorrow,

are the most gratifying offices which it is called upon
to fulfil. Upon you will the anxious eye of the mater
nal head of a family be fixed, in all the anguish of
grief, while the support of herself and helpless infants

is stretched upon the bed of languishing; and if
poverty be added to her affliction, I trust you will rise

nobly superior to sordid views, and find your richest
recompense in the approbation of your own minds --
in the sweet satisfaction of attempting, at least, to
diminish the weight of that misery, which, perhaps,
from the nature of things, you cannot wholly remove.

  " If gentleness of manners and polite behavior be

esteemed ornamental in society at large, it is more

indispensably requisite in the medical character. It

is natural for the human mind to associate with this

character the idea of power, and what can be more

soothing to those under affliction than to meet with

power and benevolence combined in the medical man?

   " I am aware that, in the line of your profession,

you will be sometimes placed in difficult and delicate

circumstances ; but never, I entreat you, sacrifice your

sense of propriety, your feelings of the eternal obliga
tion of right and wrong, that on which your present
and future peace of mind depends, to any prospect of

sinister advantage. Consider only what it is your
duty to do, and leave the consequences to Him who

never fails to approve every honest endeavor to per
form it. So will you, in your different circumstances,

be the instruments of most extensive good. You will
34  LECTURES FOR ONE SEASON.  [18CM.

be a blessing to your country, and honored by those
whose good opinion is of value."

   What a contrast docs this sterling common sense,
and elevating doctrine, present to the irreligious senti
ments and questionable morality which many lecturers,
to gain the applause of the gay and thoughtless, scatter
like firebrands, arrows and death, among the students.
Happy the lecturer who dares to mingle religious truth
with scientific knowledge; and thrice happy those
students who welcome it with applause, and adopt it
in their practice !

   The following note shows his labors at the Royal
Institution and the Hospital for one season : " Lectures
given this season. -- Hospital, first course, 46 ; second
course, Chemistry, 26 ; ditto, Natural Philosophy, 1 5 ;
Reyal Institution, 21 ; total, 108."

    Resolutions formed this year, show the reason why
he had so much time at his disposal, and why he

could undertake such multifarious duties ; and, if

adopted generally, most persons would find they could
accomplish much more than they now believe possible.

  " Resolved, --before I enter upon a subject, to spend

a few minutes in endeavoring to abstract my mind
from all other objects but that immediately before me,
to take ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, every
morning, to consider what may be my duty for the
day ; to fix my plan, adhere to it strictly, and endeavor
to dismiss all further anxiety. Occupy every spare
minute for ' standing jobs,' not infringing upon the
fixed time for certain things. Much time is lost in
desultory indecision; when this comes on, catch up
1804.]  BOTANICAL RESEARCHES.  35

the first thing that comes to hand of those that must

be done."

    In the midst of these incessant labors he found time
for higher studies. Most of his excursions in the

country were made subservient to botanical researches,
which combined the pursuit of health with increasing
knowledge. Thus he states :

   " We had a coach for the day ; and S. Wood, J.
Woods, Golding, Barker, Middleton, and I, went to

Harrow to breakfast. We then set off on foot, to
Morpeth Field after the frittillaria, but our search was
in vain : we however got the helleborus viridis, a scarce
plant in these parts, and the ophioglossum, also the
vinca minor, etc. We dined at the King's Head,
Harrow, and set off home at six."

   About this period he attended a series of conver
saziones at Dr. Babington's, where Count Bournon
gave instruction in mineralogy, particularly crystal

lography. A journey into Cornwall afterwards afforded

him an opportunity of pursuing this study under very
favorable circumstances, and of exploring some of the
rich treasures of that county in their native state. He
describes his descent into the copper mine of Dolcoath,
situated a few miles from Redruth, with Thomas Cock,

a young man from Plough-court, who accompanied
him in his journey, and two intelligent miners :

  I" found the descent more easy and safe than I had

imagined. The opening of the shaft was about five-

feet square, in which a perpendicular ladder about five
or six fathoms was fixed against one side. After

descending several of these ladders, some longer,

some shorter, we came to a convenient place to sit
36  DESCENDS A COPPER MINE.  [1804.

down. The whole depth is cut out of solid rock,

mostly killas, and here and there, at different depths,

there are long horizontal passages about four feet high,

and two or three feet broad, which form a communi

cation with different shafts, many of which have been

worked for ore. At twenty-five fathoms we came to

the adit, which is a long passage carrying water out

to the lowest level of the valley. At sixty fathoms

there was a spacious place, formerly containing an
immense quantity of ore ; you see the bare rock from

whence it was cut, to a considerable height, and in
the midst of this cavity there was a vertical division
of rock about three or four feet thick, which had com

pletely divided the lode, and is called a horse. To

this place we kept pretty dry, but afterwards were
much wetted with the dripping of water ; we descended
by a series of ladders, to the bottom of all, or sump,
184 fathoms, or 1 100 feet from grass. Here the men
were working the copper ore, with iron instruments,
at one end like a pickaxe, and the other like a hammer.

Thomas and I borrowed their tools, and knocked off

Isome pieces which we carried away as trophies. Hav

ing brought down a thermometer, took the tempera

ture of a stream of water running to the sump, and

found it 80° of Fahrenheit, the air was 77°. I had

previously observed the temperature aboveground;
which was 64°, this probably arose from the action
of sulphur and iron, or sulphur and copper in contact
with water. Almost all the sides of the shafts hitherto

seemed large blocks of killas, but where the water had
washed the bottom of the sump, a fine white quartz
1804.]  ASCENT OF THE MINE.  37

with ore in it. We were in a profuse perspiration,
even when sitting; it was a complete warm bath."

   They found the ascent very fatiguing, but arriving at
the long level, he remarks : " We went along a narrow

passage, cut out of solid rock, I think a full quarter

of a mile. We were obliged to stoop, and in some
places crawl. The place was dripping wet, and. at
times, we were considerably above the ankle in mud.

It felt very hot, and respiration was not free. I took

the temperature, which was 73° in water, 75° out.
The main lode runs nearly east and west, and under
lays south about fifteen inches in a fathom. We now

returned to the shaft, and mounted to day. I never

was in such a mess in my life. Felt a sensible enjoy
ment in washing tubs, with warm water. We had
just been four hours underground.

   " There are six steam engines worked upon this
mine. Most of the large mines of Cornwall are now

so deep, that they must have been stopped long ago

if the steam engine had not been applied ; yet this

noble invention had, at first, many prejudices to sur

mount."

   This journey afforded a fund of interest to his in
quiring mind ; and the kindness of his friends greatly

enriched his mineralogical and botanical specimens.

   In the course of 1805, he visited Cambridge. Wil-
berforce having furnished him with a letter of intro

duction to Professor Farish, he saw the university and

its professors to great advantage. To show the esteem
in which he was held, it is necessary only to quote an
entry of his diary :
88  FIRE AT PLOUGH-COURT.  [1805.

   " Dined with Professor Farish, and met Stephen's
wife, who is the sister of Wilberforce, and her son.

   " Breakfasted with Professor Hailstone at Trinity

College, then went with him and Professor Farish to

see the Woodwardian collection of fossils : dined at

the public table, Trinity, with Davis, the Vice-Master.
Hailstone, Porson, etc. : spent the afternoon very
agreeably with many of them.

   " The Vice-Master is a very good botanist, and
showed me his hortus-siccus, which is in excellent

preservation : took tea with him, and supped at Pro

fessor Parish's."

   Soon after his return home, a fire happened at
Plough-court, which threatened the destruction of the

premises. It was occasioned- by the breaking of a
bottle of strong nitrous acid, the fumes of which ren

dered it very difficult to approach the place with water ;

great exertions were, however, used, and with the assist
ance of many friends, together with the fire engines,
it was subdued in about two hours. The combustible

substances near it greatly increased the danger, about

which he remarks :

   " When I consider the nature of the accident, our

escape seems little short of a miracle. If it had hap

pened in the night, there appears no probability that
our lives would have been saved. About nine o'clock

Iit was got under, and I trust may say prmridentlally,

though I felt myself unworthy of such a favor."

   Nothing is more remarkable than Mr. Allen's regu
lar and systematic attention to the care of his soul in
the midst of all that was calculated to draw him aside
from heavenly things. The claims of his business, the
1798.]  FERVENT PIETY.  39

time and mental perseverance necessary for his lec
tures, his frequent analyses, his acquisition of languages

and elegant literature, his attention to the formation
and working of institutions for the temporal and eter
nal advantage of his fellow-creatures, would, in the
opinion of many, have been a sufficient excuse for
non-attention to piety. But the same spirit of perse

vering devotedness to the cultivation of heavenly

principles marks his busiest and most honored seasons.
When the world begins to flatter, it makes the position
of him who receives the applause very slippery; and

without double care he slides into a vortex of pleasure

and wealth, which drowns men in destruction and

perdition. From this Mr. Allen was graciously pre
served by the use of those sanctified weapons, the
word of God and prayer; the one guiding his steps
through labyrinths of evil, the other securing to him
a companionship and fellowship superior to all that
the circles of literature or science could furnish.

                                                                                             m

    Extracts from his diary might be greatly multiplied,
but a few will show how conscientiously he walked

with God :

   " ij98.-- Many persons are seeking after truth in

natural science, but how few in spiritual things ! The

reason probably is, that when found in the former, it
exalts the creature, but when discovered in the latter,

it lays him low. It may not, perhaps, chime in with

his particular notions, and it certainly will not with his

irregular desires."

  " Oppressed with discourse on politics. I wish dear

         was more redeemed from it. O, how infinitely
40             EXTRACTS SHOWING HIS                   [1799.

superior is the kingdom of the Lamb to the kingdom

of this world!"
   " The language ran through my mind, ' The Lord

hath forsaken me, my God hath forgotten me,' yet I

resolved to hope on. My faith and patience are much
tried, the reflection that on this day twelve months I

was made desolate, tends to keep me very low. O, this

affliction --how it shakes me ! "

   " Defended Revelation and Christianity, in a small

pap"eVr etroy  be published in the  Monthly Magazine."   think
                low and poor, with
                                    a few exceptions. I
I am, nevertheless, sometimes favored in my nightly
petitions, and can at times say, ' Lord, thou knowest
that I love thee !' O, for preservation from the spirit
of the world! I am certainly a very poor, weak

creature, much wanting in firmness and strength of

mind, vain, abounding in self-love and very indolent."

  " I dare not ask for riches, they have been the bane
Iof thousands ; but have earnestly desired to be placed

in such circumstances, 'as that no revolution of this

uncertain scene might disable me from paying every
one his own-- this would indeed be terrible."

  Ij99- -- " If I am preserved from falling a victim to

Ithe world, its knowledge, its honors, and its friend

ships, shall be inclined to consider it a miracle of

mercy. O, that my feet were permanently fixed on

the   sure   foundation,    even Jesus  Christ!"      of good,
   "        mind was      sensible of
      My                                the presence
this morning, before I arose ; renewed my covenant.
IO, how pant for a state of greater enlargement ! My

soul longs for a little of that liberty enjoyed by the
children of God ! "
1804.]  FERVENT METY.  41

  " 1800.-- I find self very strong, manifesting itself in

a disposition to speak freely, and enlarge upon what

may tend to exalt it. A degree of self-abhorrence in

the retrospect. O, that my efforts might be solely
directed to the investigation of truth, both in the moral
and the natural world ! O Thou, who art the source
of perfection, favor me with a little of thy all-sufficient

help ! for without thee I am worse than weak."

    " Read the Scriptures to good satisfaction ; there is
no book like them."

  I1802.-- " have seen the beauty, and long to attain

to that heavenly disposition of mind, that seeks con

stantly to render those around us happy. May I be

favored to guard against peevishness, even when just
cause, or what appears so, is given, and also to strive

against foolish lightness."

  "I180j. -- took the chair at Guy's Hospital as

President, for the first time, and was favored to keep

my place as a member of our Society. For this I felt

thankful. What is the smile and applause of the

world, compared with one beam from thy counte
nance, O my God."

      180j. -- My mind rather more staid towards the
close of the week. The purity of the Christian religion

 requires that we should constantly labor to render

even all our thoughts acceptable to the Supreme

Being; and if this were the case, our deeds would be
 more likely to bear the light. This is, indeed, a great

 attainment, but ought to be aimed at."

    1804.--" My soul longs for more of the sensible

Ifeeling of the Divine Master's countenance and sup

 port, that so, may hold on my way with firmness,
42               HIS PUBLIC DEVOTEDNESS.  [1804.

and not only experience preservation myself, but be

useful in my day, to excite others to attend to their

best interest."

    These extracts refer to his private walk with God,

but more remarkable was his public devotedness. No
pressure of engagements was suffered to interrupt his

regular attendance   on meetings    for worship in the
middle of the week,  or the Lord's  Day. " Made tem

porals give way to spirituals," was his motto, to which

through life he adhered. Nor did he shrink from the

most active services to benefit the religious society to

which he belonged. At the age of twenty-nine, he
says, " I was appointed a correspondent member of

the meeting for sufferings for Derbyshire and Notting

hamshire. I felt afraid to refuse, lest I should be

doing wrong." In the following year, when the
enmity of the mob was particularly levelled at Friends,

who, as many of them were corn factors, were most

unjustly charged with being the cause of the high

price of bread, he was one of a committee to draw up

a paper on the subject for the, public, but it chiefly

devolved on himself. When the clerk of the Monthly

Meeting resigned, he was chosen. " I forebore to

refuse on principle, being afraid of doing wrong, but

my natural disposition would have been gratified by a

strenuous opposition to the appointment."

   Of a meeting attended by Friends from several

counties, deputed to assist in revising the Book of
Extracts, he writes :--

   " Meeting at ten --felt comforted in sitting with

Friends; amidst all my trials, weaknesses, and imper

fections, I am encouraged by my feelings in attending
1805.]  LABORS AMONG FRIENDS.  43

in my place on this occasion, and a hope is raised that

this sacrifice of time will not be suffered to operate

materially to my disadvantage."

   What that sacrifice of time was, the following mem

orandum will show :
   " The sittings of the committee closed on Seventh-

day morning, after having continued more than three

weeks ; I have not missed one of them, though such
close application is rather trying, and I have often

attended under heavy depression. Some were seasons

of comfort and refreshment, wherein my hope and con

fidence were strengthened. Saved about twelve hours

this week by early rising."
   May not the low state of piety among many profes

sors of religion be attributed in a great degree to their
utter disregard of the ordinances of God on other days
besides the Sabbath ? The world has no check -- the

family witnesses no devotedness except attendance on

the Sabbath, and is it any wonder that the junior mem
bers of the household should seek for other pleasures
than those of God's house, which they are never taught
to prize? To Mr. Allen, the counteracting influence
of this public devotedness to God's cause was most
beneficial. He was repaid by ministerial visits of great
worth, which kept alive the great principles of godli
ness, and restrained the influence of flattery and worldly
honor. He notes : --

   " Dear Mary Stacey felt a draught in her mind yes
terday to call in and hand me the word of exhortation,
viz., to be on my guard against the poison of the world's

flattery and applause. She also reminded me that we

were favored with good in proportion to the solicitude
44            DEATH OF HIS FATHER.                  [1800.

with which we seek it. Remember this, O, my soul !

I believe M. S. to be a dear servant of the Lord." " E.

Fry kindly warned me about philosophy, etc., expres

sing a hope that it might not injure me in the best

sense, and divert me from service in the Society."

    Besides his personal diligence, it pleased God to

train his servant for devotedness and usefulness, by

repeated afflictions, which were abundantly sanctified.

In the year 1800 he lost his father ; his description of

his sickness  and death, is very touching :     he  should
              father expressed his belief that
   " My dear

not recover, saying, that he had for some time felt as

if he were drawing to a close. He was resigned to
the Divine will, and hoped that, if it pleased the Al

mighty to take him, it would be in ' the accepted time.'

He acknowledged that he had been blessed in his

children. All my tenderness and affection for him
seemed to be stirred up. Though in deep distress, I

have, at times, some feeling of my heavenly Father's

love. These touches, however slight, and like the

crumbs that fall from the table, are received with eager

thankfulness, and just serve to keep me alive. Verily,

mine is the cup of bitterness ! Sanctify            Lord
I

   !I

        if

           I

                  I
                                                      ;
                                                                            it,
                                                                   it O
                                                                                                                                                                            !
beseech thee that all this suffering may not be in

vain thou but smilest on my closing moments, all my

afflictions will be for ever forgotten, and my wearied

soul shall find rest in thee."
   " sat by him, with my arm round his head, until

half-past four o'clock in the morning, when he expired

without sigh or groan. My dear mother bore much

better than expected my poor mind was exceedingly

agitated, and was engaged in mental supplication.
1801.]           DEATH OF HIS BROTHER.                       45

After we had given some vent to our sorrow, we sat

down together in silence in the parlor, and I was

favored with a little of the light of the Lord's counte

nance, which, to his poor dependent creatures, is indeed

a great mercy. O, here is the anchor in all our afflic

tions."

   In the succeeding year, he again drank of the cup
of sorrow, by the death of his endeared younger

brother.

   " The decease of my dear brother Jonathan took
place on First-day morning, after a trying illness of
two weeks. The social band is broken in upon--there

are few families in which fraternal love is stronger than

in ours, and this visitation shakes me to the centre.

On behalf of the dear deceased, there is no cause to

mourn. He had a sort of foretaste of the joys about

to be revealed, and longed to be released. He went

off about eight o'clock in the morning, aged twenty-
four. My dear brother possessed a remarkably sweet,

amiable disposition, and was very forbearing.
   " The interment took place on the 8th, at the Bury-

ing-ground, Whitechapel. The goodness of God to

wards us was felt in an inexpressible manner as we

stood round the grave, giving us a taste of that pro

found peace and harmony which our dearly beloved

brother is now in the full fruition of. When our Di

vine Master condescends to manifest himself by the

breaking of bread to our hungry souls, then all doubts
vanish, and we are ready to exclaim, ' Now we believe,

for we have heard him ourselves, and kiunv, that this

is  indeed  the  Christ,  the  Saviour  of  the  world    '  May
                                                        !
I never forget the sensations I then experienced !
46  JONATHAN MIDDLETON DROWNED.       [1803.

How strong ! how clear ! how sweet the evidence that

the immortal spirit was in everlasting bliss ! and oh,
how condescending in our blessed Lord, thus to favor

his unworthy creatures ! May we feel ourselves more

and more bound to him in a covenant never to be
broken ! "

   Two years afterwards he thus records another afflic
tive dispensation, in the sudden death of a faithful

servant :

  " I gave Jonathan Middleton and Thomas Smith,

(two of the young men at Plough-court) leave to go
to the marriage of John Grubb and Sarah Lynes, at
Brentford ; they were returning by Kew and Rich

mond, and at the latter place poor Jonathan was
drowned. The dreadful news reached me while at tea.

My kind friend Joseph Woods, jun., accompanied me

in a chaise, and we got into Richmond about eight.

IAs soon as the chaise door was opened, asked the

name of the young man, and was answered that Smith

was alive; the conclusion was obvious, and, although

I summoned up all my resolution, my legs trembled

Iunder we as I went into the house; I was conducted

up-stairs, where found T. Smith stretched on a bed,

nearly in a state of delirium, and two men holding his
arms. I entreated him to endeavor to command him
Iself. His reply was in a mournful voice, ' Poor Jona
than's gone ! Poor Jonathan's gone !  could not

save him.' This was almost too much for my feelings,

and I thought it would be better on his account to

leave him, and send for the medical men who had

attended at the time. Having got poor Thomas Smith

into the chaise, we reached town a little before eleven.
1803.]  TESTIMONY OH III:; MASTER.          47

Through the whole of this trying business, my mind

experienced a degree of precious support, which I

record with thankfulness, and pray that it may be con

tinued through all those afflictions which may yet fall

to my lot.
   " With respect to dear Jonathan, there is no cause

for regret on his account ; I believe that his immortal

spirit has entered into the joy of his Lord. During

Iall the years he has been with me, never remember

to have heard an unguarded expression fall from his

lips ; he was a pattern of strict integrity, and a bright

example to the family. My loss is great; he loved

me with the affection of a child, and mine to him was

reciprocal ; he had the care of all my little matters,
and was worthy of the unbounded confidence I placed
Iin him --my companion, my friend, more than a ser
vant,  a brother beloved ! but  'm"ay  feel ability to say,
       will, O Lord, be done !
' Thy

Happy is that child of God who can receive strokes

from the Divine hand in a similar spirit !
                 CHAPTER IV.

SECOND MARRIAGE  ANTI-SLAVERY AND EDUCATIONAL
                   EFFORTS.

   AFTER continuing about eight years and a Halfa
widower, Mr. Allen again entered the marriage state
with Miss Charlotte Hanbury, of Stoke Newington, a

lady whose piety and good sense had greatly endeared
her to his affectionate spirit. The marriage took place

at Devonshire-house Meeting, on the 22d of April,
1806, and is thus briefly referred to in his diary:--

   " Fo:trth Month 26th. -- This week has been a most

important one, having entered into the solemn cove

nant of marriage with my endeared friend Charlotte

Hanbury, under, I trust, a precious degree of evidence
of Divine approbation. May I be enabled to fill up the

measure of those duties which now devolve upon me!"
   His wife's sister, Anna Hanbury, resided with them,

and contributed much to the comfort both of his child

and himself. He had taken a house at Stoke Newing

ton, between which and the house in Plough-court the

time of the happy family was now divided.
   From his earliest days, William Allen, had taken

the deepest interest in the emancipation of the slave.
When about twenty years of age, he thus powerfully
argues the injustice and immorality of slavery. The

                                                     (48)
1806.]  ANTI-SLAVERY EFFORTS.                                               49

it,Christianity of the argument is as beautiful as it isis
unanswerable : --
                             ;
   " I think it may be safely asserted, and clearly
                      if
proved, that those who enslave men, or are accessory
to are. neither moralists nor Christians for we know,                    ;

in the first place, that to drag innocent people from
their near and dear connections, and from their native

land, to consign them to slavery, to wear out their

lives in continual hardships, unjust; and all this

injustice has been fully proved upon the enslavers of
men; consequently they are unjust, and, unjust, of

course immoral.

  "In the next place, we know that none can be

Christians but such as are followers of Christ; and
none can be followers of Christ without observing his

precepts, especially the fundamental ones but the

enslavers of men act directly contrary to the precepts
of Christ, for our Lord says, 'Whatsoever ye would

that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.'
Now, when the advocates of slavery can reconcile this

with the murdering of one hundred and fifty thousand
of our fellow creatures annually, then we will allow

that they are Christians indeed; but they cannot,
as impossible, let them join with the friends of hu
manity, let them rank with the followers of Christ,

and abandon traffic so utterly inconsistent with the

high profession they are making, and so offensive to
the common Father of mankind for surely the blood
of the innocents has been found upon our nation, and
that not by secret search."

   The intimacy between Mr. Clarkson and Mr. Allen

commenced in the year 1794, from which period they
it
    is

                     a

                                                                      ;

                                             if
50  DEBATE ON THE SLAVE TRADE.  [1791.

labored together for Africa ; but, in Parliament., the
first effective efforts for the suppression of the slave-

trade had been made by Wilberforce, who was nobly

supported by Pitt and Fox, in the year 1791 -- Mr.
Allen determined to be present, and hear the debate,
which he graphically describes :--

   " Wilberforce rose, and in an able speech, of nearly
four hours, exposed the horrid traffic in its native de

formity, and showed, with undeniable clearness, that

its abolition, so far from injuring our West India

Islands, would, if adopted, be the means of improving

them. He concluded with moving for leave to bring
in a bill for the abolition of the trade.

   " In the beginning of Wilberforce's speech, Tarleton
took a sheet of paper and a pen, with the intention to
damp Wilberforce, which Pitt perceiving, took pen

and paper also, to keep him in countenance ; but the
good man seemed firm as a rock, and not to be baffled
by Tarleton. Wilberforce sat on the Treasury bench,

next to W. Pitt, who gave Wilberforce every little

assistance in his power with his papers ; and I observed

once in particular, when Wilberforce had drawn a
strong inference, that Pitt held up his hands in admi

ration.

   "Although he was but poorly the day before, yet
he exerted his voice in an astonishing manner, speak

ing with great emphasis, and shining brighter and
brighter after an hour than at first; and his voice, so
far from failing him, strengthened as he went on.

   " Col. Tarleton, in a speech of about forty minutes,

endeavored to defend this infernal business ; yet I do

not remember that he refuted, or attempted to refute,
1806.]  THE CAUSE DEFEATED.                                          51

one argument of the preceding speaker. In one part
of his speech, pointing across the table to Wilberforce
and others, he said, 'The inspiration began upon that
side of the house ; ' then, turning round, ' the revela
tion has extended also to this, and reached to the
height of fanaticism and frenzy.' So it seems, in his
estimation, that inspiration is fanaticism, and revelation

frenzy. I hear this man boasts, that he has killed

more men with his own hand than any man in England.

The words of Blair seem peculiarly applicable to him --

         " ' Behold the sturdy man-destroying villain ! ' '

After several other members had spoken for and

against the abolition, Fox moved, and Pitt seconded,

the adjournment of the debate to the following day.

The debate was conducted with consummate ability

on the second night, in which Pitt seemed to excel

all his former efforts ; but the West India influence

prevailed, and the slave-trade advocates obtained a

short-lived victory. How deeply Mr. Allen sympa

thized with the Abolitionists, and felt this defeat, will

be best recorded in his own words :

  "2Oth. -- This morning I went to know the fate of
Ithe business ; yet, as approached the house of my
friend, my heart palpitated, and I was almost afraid to
knock at the door. Upon entering, I saw him in the

passage. ' Ah, William !' said he, ' we are beat --beat

all"toThpeiecinetse;llaiglmenocset  two to   one against  us.'    ;  I wac
                                     struck   me to the    heart

seized with tremor all over, but endeavored to conceal

my emotion, and inquired after particulars. He

assured me that the most astonishing abilities had
52  FIRST COMMITTEE ON ABOLITION.  [1806.

been exerted on behalf of the abolition ; that he had
never heard anything like it in his life; that while
Pitt was speaking, he remarked to some one near him,

that in comparison to such a man they seemed a race
of inferior beings."

   " W. Wilberforce made a short reply ; and at half-
past three o'clock the House began to divide : -- Noes,
163; Ayes, 88 ; Majority, 75. Oh! scandalous deci
sion ' O most disgraceful vote ! After the matter
had been so fully stated --after the impolicy and infer

nal cruelty of the trade had been proved so far, I think,

as demonstration could carry them ; yet the British

legislature refuse to remedy it."
   The names of the little band of laborers who first

formed themselves into a Committee to promote the
great work of abolition, deserve to be had in everlast

ing remembrance --they were William Dillwyn, George
Harrison, Samuel Hoare, Thomas Knowles, M.D.,
John Lloyd, and Joseph Woods. Their first meeting

was held in 1783. The mode they pursued was en
lightening the public mind, and some of their efforts
proved highly useful. In 1787 a society was formed

upon a more extended scale, when the names of Gran-
ville Sharpe, Thomas Clarkson, and afterwards W.
Allen and several others, were added to the Com

 mittee.

    In this Committee he ardently labored, and in as

 short a time as could be expected, considering the

 mighty influence brought to bear against the slave,

 his heart's desire was accomplished. On the nth of
 June, 1806, Fox moved a resolution,-- That the Slave-

 trade is inhuman, unjust, impolitic, and ought to be
1807.]                           SLAVE TRADE ABOLISHED.  53

abolished, and that the House would take speedy and

effectual means for that purpose, -- which was carried

by one hundred and fourteen, to fifteen. This was

followed up by a motion to address the king to

correspond with foreign powers in amity with this

country, to act in concert with us in this good work.

   On the 1oth February, 1807, he records: "The

abominable slave trade is falling at last. The bill for

its extermination passed the second reading in the

House of Lords. For              one hundred against
                                 it,
                                                  O

                                                                      ;

                                                                               ! it,
thirty-six; majority, sixty-four! A glorious triumph

was soon committed, and the blanks filled up with
It
ist of First Month, 1808, but no more ships to be
                        :
                           !fitted out after Fifth month next.Lord, bless the
                              !
supporters of this righteous cause!"
   " 24th.--The young men from my house came home

from the House of Commons this morning, at five

o'clock, and brought the glorious news that the bill

for the abolition of the slave-trade passed the second

reading by two hundred and eighty-three against
                                                         it
                                                              ;
                                                                              it,
sixteen                          Majority, two hundred and sixty-seven."

   On the 25th of March the royal assent was given to
the bill, and for the honor of England became the

law of the land.

In the following month we find him becoming one

of the directors of a society, formed greatly through

his influence, for the civilization of Africa, called the

" African Institution." At the meeting held at Free

masons' Hall for the formation of the society, the

Duke of Gloucester accepted the office of President.

Wilberforce, Lord Spencer, Roscoe, of Liverpool,

Owen, Chaplain to the Bishop of London, William
54  AFRICAN INSTITUTION FORMED.  [1807.

Smith, and several bishops were present, and admira

bly enforced the claims of the degraded Africans.
The prominent object of this society was to protect
the Africans from a clandestine slave-trade. It also
aimed to promote the sale of their produce, to elevate

them by education, and to sympathise generally with
them as members of the same human family. Cir
cumstances forbade the extensive accomplishment of
all these objects, but a large amount of interest on

their behalf was excited by the publications and efforts

of this noble band of devoted men. Much as Mr.

Allen's time was occupied by public objects, he gave
a considerable portion to this society. His house was
the receptacle of the African, and of all who befriended

him, and never does he seem happier, or his talents to

be more satisfactorily employed, than when pleading
with princes and nobles, and otherwise laboring for

their behalf.

   Arrangements had for some time been in progress

for separating the concerns at Plough-court, from the

laboratory which had been removed to Stratford ;
William Allen proposing to take the establishment at
Plough-court, and Luke Howard the laboratory. On

the 1 8th of July, 1807, they signed the dissolution of
partnership. But there was no dissolution of friend
ship between these estimable men. Howard accom

panied him and his family, a month or two afterwards,
in a tour to the lakes of Cumberland and Westmore

land, and always maintained an ardent attachment to
William Allen.

   On his return he commenced his winter campaign

in experiments and lectures with renewed ardor. One
1807.] ELECTED FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.  55

of his first efforts was at a private meeting at Free
masons' Tavern, with Davy, Dr. Babington, and nine
others, to institute a Geological Society which remains
to this day. The result of the valuable researches
made by himself and his friend, W. H. Pepys, on car

bon and carbonic acid, were printed in the Royal

Society's transactions, and elicited much interest in
the scientific world. He remarks :

  " I understand from Davy that the council of the

Royal Society would have voted the gold medal for
our paper on carbonic acid, had only one person been
the author, but they did not know how to manage it

with two. It is however satisfactory to find that they

thought it deserved one."
   The Society soon after elected Mr. Allen a Fellow,

Sir Everard Home introducing him and acting as
master of the ceremonies on the occasion. He had

the pleasure also to see his friend Pepys elected a
Fellow a few months afterwards, to give him his vote,
and to go and tell him of his joy.

   Although Mr. Allen expresses himself in raptures
at the discoveries of Davy, lectures for him when ill,

and holds him forth most justly as a great leader in

chemical science, yet the plain Quaker is sometimes
found in very favorable collision with his superior.

As for instance :
   " Experiment with W. H. Pepys suspended on

account of my cough and the Yearly Meeting, but I

have made considerable progress with my fair copy

of the paper. Pepys and I went up to Davy with it

on Seventh-day ; he finds it hard work to give up his
favorite idea of the absorption of azote ; he however
56  LETTERS FROM HIS MOTHER.  [1808.

seems, though reluctantly, to yield to the evidence of
our experiments ; this is quite as much as we could
expect, seeing it overturns almost all his experiments
on this subject."

   By his incessant labors his chest became seriously

affected, and for a time arrested his progress.

   " Fifth Month. --Very low and poor this week --but
little feeling of good. May not the cause be a too
great absorption of the mind in outward things? I

have, perhaps, been too anxious about our experiment

and paper for the Royal Society. I have, however,

met with a strong check from the indisposition of my

lungs, which renders it imprudent to proceed at pre

sent."

   His devoted mother, tenderly concerned lest his
love of science and pursuit of knowledge should lead
him away from -objects of higher importance, took
advantage of the pause which his illness occasioned,
to address to him the following unWorldly and admir
able counsels :--

   "Thy talents, my beloved child, if rightly directed,

would tend to spread heavenly knowledge, and to ex
tend the government of the Prince of Peace. Oh !

how I long that the Most High would anoint and
appoint dedicated sons to turn the attention of men to

their greatest good, and arouse them from their beds
of case before the solemn sound goes forth, 'Time

shall be no longer.' -- If one soul is of more value than

a world, how docs it behoove those to whom the two

or more talents are entrusted, to occupy them in this
great work. He, who has loved thee from thy earliest
youth, has called thee to love him above all, to dedi-
1808.]  LETTERS FROM HIS MOTHER.  57

cate thyself to him, to surrender thy all to him, to bo
made use of as he shall direct. The reins of govern

ment should not be in thy hands, but in his, to turn

thee into the path he may in future appoint, and out of
what thou, as a man, wouldst have chosen for thyself.
Ah ! my dear, it is not the strength of natural affection

which leads me to say thou wast not intended to spend
all thy time in earthly pursuits, but through submis
sion to the operation of that Power which creates
anew, thou art designed to lead the minds of others

both by example and precept, from earth to heaven.

I believe it may be said of thee as was said to Peter,

' Satan hath desired to have thee that he may sift thee

as wheat,' but I humbly hope that the same Advocate
will plead for thee, that, ' thy faith fail not.' "

   On another occasion, she writes: --
   " I entreat thee again to consider the necessity of
setting thyself more at liberty in the future. Thou art

too much absorbed in study, my beloved child, for

however innocent it may be, yet, like the doves in the
temple, it fills up a place in the temple of thy heart,

which ought to be otherwise occupied, and dedicated
unto the Lord, in whose hands thou wouldst become

an instrument to promote the knowledge of pure
Christianity. Come, my beloved, if a right hand or a
right eye be called for, give it up -- the Lord loves a
cheerful giver, and he will restore thee an hundred

fold."

   At the close of the year 1 809, she again addresses
him in a similar strain :--

    " Now, my dearly beloved, suffer thy tender mother
to throw before thee the wish of her soul, that thou
58  SKETCH OF LANCASTER'S  [1808.

mayst surrender up all that does not tend to promote
the coming of thy Heavenly Father's kingdom in thy
heart, and his will being done by thee on earth, as it

is done in heaven ; thou wilt, I believe, if faithful, hear

the voice of the Lord saying, ' Who will go for us ? '
And O, mayst thou be so unloosed from earthly con

cerns as that this ready humble language may be

thine, --" Here I am, Lord, send me.' "

   During the year 1808, Mr. Allen became acquainted
with Joseph Lancaster. He was born in Kent Street,
Southwark, of pious parents, in the year 1778. By
their instructions he became deeply impressed with
the value of religion. His enthusiastic and somewhat

original character soon developed itself. Having

been an assistant at both a boarding and a day-school,
he became thoroughly acquainted with the defects of

the old system of education. At eighteen years of

age, he commenced teaching on his own account, in a
shed on his father's premises. He thus describes his
operations : --

   " My father gave the school-room rent free, and,

after fitting up the forms and desks myself, I had the
pleasure, before I was eighteen, of having near ninety
children under instruction, many of whom I educated

free of expense. As the number of scholars continued

to increase, I soon had occasion to rent larger

premises.

   "A season of scarcity brought the wants of poor

families closely under my notice; at this time a num
ber of very liberal persons enabled me to feed the
hungry children. In the course of this happy exer

tion, I became intimately acquainted with the state of
1808.]  FIRST EDUCATIONAL EFFORTS.  59

many industrious poor families, whose necessities had
prevented the payment of the small price of their
children's tuition, some of whom had accumulated

arrears for many weeks. In every such case I remitted

the arrears, and continued the children's instruction

free of expense.
   " The state of the poor, combined with the feelings

of my mind, had now blended the pay-school with a
free-school. Two benevolent private friends had been
in the habit of paying for five or six poor children at

the low price I had fixed as the assize of education or
mental bread for my neighborhood. I easily induced

these friends to place the money they gave, as pay,
in the form of a subscription."

   On the outside of his school-room he placed the

following printed notice: -- "All that will, may send

their children and have them educated freely ; and

those that do not wish to have education for nothing,

may pay for it if they please."
   This general invitation brought many more than his

room would hold, but God raised him up friends, who
erected for him rooms capable of holding 1000 chil

dren. He says :--

   " The second building I owe to the benevolence of

the Duke of Bedford and Lord Somerville, who ap

peared to be sent by Providence to open wide before
me the portals of usefulness for the good of the poor.
The children now came in for education like flocks of

sheep, and the number so greatly increased, as to
place me in that state whtch is the mother of inven

tion. The old place of education in which I had been

 hitherto conversant, was daily proved inadequate to
60  ALLEN VISITS HIS SCHOOLS.             [1808.

the purposes of instruction on a large scale. In every

respect I had to explore a new and untrodden path."

   The system of instruction pursued by Lancaster,

combined scriptural and conprehensive principles with

simplicity and economy, features which strongly com
mended it to the mind of Mr. Allen. His first visit to

the school must be given in his own words :--

  " I can never forget the impression which the scene
made upon me. Here I beheld a thousand children

collected from the streets, where they were learning

nothing but mischief, one bad boy corrupting another,

all reduced to the most perfect order, training to
habits of subordination and usefulness, and learning
the great truths of the gospel from the Bible. The
feelings of the spectator while contemplating the results

which might take place in this country, and the world
in general, by the extension of the system thus brought

into practice by this meritorious young man, were
overpowering, and found vent in tears of joy."

   The public soon pronounced its encomium on Lan
caster's system. The school-room was visited, he tells

us, "by foreign princes, ambassadors, peers, com

moners, ladies of distinction, bishops and archbishops."

He lectured in the numerous towns, and everywhere
received the plaudits of crowded assemblies. His
various school-books, statements and defences of his

IIIsystem were eagerly purchased, passing rapidly through
several editions. George  gave him an interview
at Weymouth, which is thus described: --
    " On entering the royal presence, the king said,
' Lancaster, I have sent for you to give me an account
of your system of education which I hear has met
1808.]        LANCASTER WITH GEORGE III.        61

with opposition. One master teach five hundred

children at the same time ! How do you keep them
in order, Lancaster?' Lancaster replied, ' Please thy

majesty, by the same principle thy majesty's army is

kept in order-- by the word of command.' His majesty
replied, 'Good, good; it does not require an aged
general to give the command ; one of younger years

can do it.' Lancaster observed that in his schools

the teaching branch was performed by youths, who

acted as monitors. The king assented, and said,

' Good.' Lancaster then described his system, to

which they all paid great attention, and were highly

delighted ; and as soon as he had finished, his majesty

said, 'Lancaster, I highly approve of your system, and

it is my wish that every poor child in my dominions

should be taught to read the Bible ; I will do anything

you wish to promote this object.'

   " ' Please thy majesty,' said Lancaster, ' if the sys

tem meets thy approbation, I can go through the

country and lecture on and have no doubt but, in a
            I

                                it,
few months, shall be able to give thy majesty an

account where ten thousand poor children are being

educated, and some of my youths instructing them.'

His majesty immediately replied, Lancaster, will'

subscribe .£100 annually; and,' addressing the queen,a' I

'you shall subscribe £50, Charlotte; and the prin

cesses ,£25 each and then added, 'Lancaster, you may
            ;
have the money directly.' Lancaster observed, Please
             it
thy majesty, that will be setting thy nobles goodis ;'

example.' The royal party appeared to smile at this

observation but the queen observed to his majesty,

'  How cruel           that enemies should be found who
02  LANCASTER'S DIFFICULTIES.  [1808.

endeavor to hinder his progress in so good a work.'

To which the king replied, ' Charlotte, a good man

seeks his reward in the world to come.' Joseph then

withdrew."

    Large subscriptions poured in upon him from all
quarters ; but, unaccustomed to the use of money, and

naturally enthusiastic, imaginative, and extravagant,
he soon became involved in great pecuniary difficulties,
writs were out against him, and his creditors were

clamorous. Yet Divine Providence raised up friends

to assist him in his extremity, and had he been blessed

with prudence to adhere to their counsel, would have
saved himself and those interested in his welfare a vast

amount of labor and sorrow.

   Among those who succored him, the principal was
Joseph Fox, a surgeon and dentist of Lombard Street,
a man abounding in the best feelings of the human

heart, and at the same time possessing undaunted
courage and perseverance in every good work. Another
was William Corston, a straw-hat manufacturer on

Ludgate Hill, who had been his friend in the still earlier
periods of his work. Fox, it is believed was an Inde

pendent, Corston a Moravian, but both one in Christ

 Tesus in spirit and effort.

   The first interview Mr. Fox had with Lancaster was
at Corston's house, on Ludgate Hill, which is beauti
fully described by Corston : --

   "After dinner, our first subject was the debt. ' Well,
Joseph,' said Mr. Fox, ' what do you owe now ? Do
you owe a thousand pounds ? ' He only replied, ' Yes.'
After a little time, he asked, ' Do you owe two thou

sand pounds ? ' A significant pause ensued. Joseph
1808.] INTERVIEW WITH FOX AND CORSTON.  63

again replied, 'Yes.' The third time he inquired,

with increased earnestness, affectionately tapping him
on the shoulder, ' Do you owe three thousand pounds ? '

Joseph burst into tears. 'You must ask William

Corston,' said he. ' He knows better what I owe than
I do myself.' Mr. Fox then, rising from his seat, and
addressing me, solemnly said, ' Sir, I am come to

London to see the devil in his worst shape ; tell me

what he owes.' ' Why, Sir,' I replied, ' it is nearer

four thousand than three.' He returned to his chair,
and seemed for some time to be absorbed in prayer;

not a word passed from either of us. Mr. Fox at

length rose, and, addressing me, said, ' Sir, I can do it
with your assistance.' I replied, ' I know, Sir, that
God has sent you to help us ; and all that I can do is
at your command.' He rejoined, ' I can only at pres

ent lay my hand upon two thousand pounds. Will

you accept all the bills I draw upon you ? and every

one shall have twenty shillings in the pound, and

interest if they require it.' I replied, ' I will.' We

then all instantly rose, and embraced each other like

children, shedding tears of affection and joy. ' The
Icause
is saved    '  exclaimed  Mr.  Fox.     replied, 'Yes :
          !

and a threefold cord is not easily broken.' Thus,

through the gracious and almighty hand of Him, who

prospers His own cause, and makes it to triumph over
all its enemies and obstacles --thus was the foundation

laid for the maintenance of an institution, which was

destined to confer the blessing of Christian education

upon millions and millions of mankind.

"We immediately, and with renewed energy, pro

ceeded with the work. Two days after, the bills,
64  SCHOOL COMMITTEE FORMED.           [1808.

forty-four in number, were drawn, accepted, and given

to the creditors ; and, with gratitude to the Divine
goodness, it may be added, that they were all honored

as they became due.
   " Soon after this we were joined by several valuable

friends; and on March i, 1808, a committee was
formed, consisting of the following persons : --

    " THOMAS STURGE,  WILLIAM ALLEN,

    WILLIAM CORSTON,  JOHN JACKSON,
    JOSEPH Fox,       JOSEPH FOSTER."

   Thus, with a liberality rarely equalled, Fox sold

out two thousand pounds from the funds, and made
himself responsible for four thousand pounds more,
in the faith that, when the merits of the system were

known, means would be provided for liquidating the
debt, and Corston had the courage to accept bills,

drawn upon him by Joseph Fox for between three

and four thousand pounds, at six, twelve, and eighteen
months' date, in favor of all the creditors. God hon

ored this work of faith, for loans were obtained, and
subscriptions raised, so that every bill was punctually

honored.

   Beside the immense efforts required to raise funds
for the liquidation of the heavy debt with which Lan
caster's concerns were encumbered, Mr. Allen under
took to prepare a regular set of books, and to enter the
accounts, which, from their complicated nature, was
no easy task. In writing to Joseph Foster, he re

marks :--

  " I have been laboring as hard as ever I did in my

own concerns in unravelling matters, and I have the
1808.]  MR. ALLEN'S SCHOOL LABORS.  65

satisfaction to inform theethat our waste-book, journal,
and ledger, are all posted up as far as the materials

permitted. I have raised between fifty and sixty
heads in the ledger, which, I believe, will include all

our present subjects." For many years, he recorded
all the minutes of the committee with his own hand;
and he observes, -- " This engagement has taken great

hold of me, for I have distinctly seen the importance

of its bearings."
   In the course of their investigations they found a

considerable debt owing to a baker for bread; and
when some of the examiners expressed their surprise

at his having given so large a credit, he replied,--

" The good which Mr. Lancaster has done to the poor

of tli is neighborhood is such, that as long as I have a

loaf left I will give the half of it to enable him to

continue such beneficial exertions."

   Notwithstanding the disinterested kindness of these

noble minded men, Joseph Lancaster evinced no small
apprehension respecting the interference of the com
mittee, which Mr. Allen, in the spirit of a Christian,

thus attempted to subdue :--

   " Be assured, my dear friend, that neither myself

nor any of the committee wish to interfere further

than appears absolutely necessary for the attainment
of the object thou art so laudably pursuing. We
desire, as much as the nature of the concern will

admit, to labor with and for thee, in private. We
entered into it merely from a sense of its importance,
and to assist a meritorious individual, and not from

any little feeling of vanity, in being known to patronize

a work of general utility. I believe thou wilt always
66  DISINTERESTED KINDNESS.  [1808.

find us superior to feelings of this kind -- and, indeed,iii
if we had possessed them, they would not have been
a sufficient inducement to undertake such a load as

this is.

   " As the money will be advanced in confidence in
the care of the committee, we feel strongly bound to

keep regular accounts; but we must depend upon
thee for the items, as without them everything will be

in utter confusion, and we shall be quite discouraged.

I am sure thou wilt see and feel the importance of it

as the work advances, and also be quite convinced
that our wish for the minute details of expenditure
does not arise from the slightest suspicion of thy
honor and integrity, but solely from our experience
in matters of business, and knowledge of the world,
convincing us of the vast importance of clear and
correct accounts."

   Three years after the formation of this committee,
Lancaster, in a report which he published, acknowl
edged the disinterested kindness and labors of his

friends. Happy had it been for him had he continued
in the same grateful temper: --

   " Into the hands of a few friends, now constituted

my trustees, I have committed my financial concerns

for the last three years ; and during that time they
have conducted all my affairs with the greatest good

to the poor, by enabling me to spread the knowledge
and practice of the plan in the country. By superin

tending my financial concerns, public and private, in

ir.y absence, with liberal sacrifices of time and atten
tion, as well as advances of money, everything is now

happily brought to that state rf maturity, which \\
1808.]  APPOINTED TREASURER.  67

lead to the hope of public support to a system, which

has already spread in part over the land, and may yet
make a more extensive progress. And, however in

adequate I may be to express my gratitude for the
generous and disinterested assistance I have received

from them in the maintaining and prosecuting the

arduous work in which I have been engaged, I trust

that a generous and enlightened British public will
grant them that co-operative assistance which the
benefits of a national education, and their disinterested

philanthropy, so richly merit."
   On the formation of a school society, which imme

diately succeeded these arrangements, Mr. Allen
became treasurer. For several years his advances

were frequently very heavy, and were made under
circumstances which necessarily involved risk of loss ;

but his devotion to the object, his anxious desire for
the improvement of the laboring classes of society,
and his unshaken belief that the divine blessing rested

on the work, enabled him cheerfully to sustain a

burden which would otherwise have been insupport
able. In his arduous labors, the hearty co-operation
of his dear and valued friend Joseph Foster, of Brom
ley, upon whom, for a long series of years, a large
share of the weight of this institution devolved, was

a great encouragement to hlhi, and strong were the
ties of friendship which ever after united these truly

benevolent and excellent men.

    During these engrossing labors he sustained with
his usual energy his scientific pursuits. He opened ;i
correspondence with the eminent geologist De Luc,

on the connection between galvanism and electricity,
68  GALVANIC EXPERIMENTS.  [1808.

and conducted experiments with unsparing industry.

The following are specimens :--
    "Eighth Month 2ist.-- After breakfast, Children,

Davy, Pepys, and I, began our experiments on Chil
dren's great battery. Fused a foot and a half of pla-
tina wire, one-thirtieth of an inch in diameter, red
hot, and ignited three feet of thinner wire. The

plates were two feet by four, and twenty pairs. Char
coal burnt with a bright light like the sun, iron wire

was not melted, except short lengths: this Children
very properly attributed to the oxide instantaneously
formed, and which is a non-conductor ; it had a greater

effect upon thicker wire, no effect upon diamonds,
potash, or the gold leaf electrometer, but a couronne
des tasses of two hundred half pint earthenware jugs,
with copper and zinc plates about two inches square,
connected with lead, decomposed potash, gave strong
shocks, and proved that the large plates give quantity,
and produce great effect in igniting ; the small plates

give intensity, and are most powerful in decomposition.
The base of potash evidently blackened diamonds
when heated within a plate glass tube. Davy observed
that the presence of a very minute proportion of an
element in a compound was sufficient to give that

compound a totally different appearance; that metals,
and all combustible b«dics, had a positive energy, and

oxygen a negative energy.''

   " Third Month jd. -- Experiment with Pepys took
up nearly the whole day. A very important and

interesting one with a guinea pig, which breathed for
an hour in a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen gases.
The only effect it appeared to produce, was to make
1809. J  ELECTRICAL KITE.  69

him sleepy towards the end of the experiment, but he
did not seem to suffer in the least. Our apparatus

was so contrived, that we could have relieved him

whenever he appeared uneasy."

   " Eighth Month I2th. --To Newington by two-o'clock
coach. In the afternoon raised the electrical kite, --
wind south, weather showery. When the kite was in

a clear sky, it gave positive electricity, varying from
fifteen to thirty degrees ; but a cloud arose, and as it
approached the kite, signs of electricity were reduced

to O. It became negative under the cloud, then more

strongly negative as rain began to fall, and kept

Iincreasing till was almost alarmed, the sparks being

very dense, zigzag, and about two inches long ; and
this, notwithstanding the insulation was spotted with

rain."

   During the year 1808, he made further efforts to
bring more effectually before the minds of the public,
and of men in power, the subject of capital punish
ment, and thus describes the auspicious commence
ment: --

   " Seventh Month 1st. -- Basil Montague, Thomas

Furley and B. M. Foster, R. Phillips, F. Smith, J. G.

Bevan, and Luke Howard, dined with me to converse
on the subject of our little society--we have now

taken a regular form. Its title is, 'A society for

diffusing information on the subject of punishment by
death.' For the next six months they are to dine at
Plough-court on the first Second-day in the month, in
order that we may be in time for the publications.
B. Montague is to open a communication with Sir
70    CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.                      [1809.

Samuel Romilly, and it appears as if we should go

on with spirit."
   He did so, and found " Sir Samuel delighted with

the idea of having coadjutors in this great cause."
   During a meeting of this society at Mr. Allen's

house, one of the party maintained that "departure

from truth was not only warrantable, but our duty, in

certain cases." The good host could not suffer such

lax morality to rule his friend's actions, and therefore

sent him, in a letter, the following delicate and admir
      admonition :--
able  I am willing    to  believe,  that  the  difference  of

   "

opinion between us, upon the subject of truth, consists

more in words than in anything else.
   " The question is,, not whether truth is lovely and

of divine origin -- not whether our lives should be
regulated by it-- not whether it be calculated to secure
the happiness of mankind. On these points I con

ceive there can be no question between us ; but ask

me, whether it be allowable to depart from truth, to

answer particular purposes, and I shall answer, no.

He, who has declared Himself the God of Truth, and

that deceit and falsehood are His aversion, can never,

in my opinion, have rendered the latter necessary in
the intercourse of His creatures. His system, as re

      I

                                       I

                                                                        it,
vealed in the sacred writings, is complete without

and as well might we attempt to reconcile light and
darkness, as truth and its opposite. We find in the
Bible, that one of the recommendations of the Lord's

people was, they are 'children who will not lie,' and
then follows, 'so He was their Saviour.' am always
alarmed when see the symptoms of that false philo-
1809.]                           LETTER ON TRUTH.   71

sophy, (unhappily too much acted upon at the present

time) whose avowed maxim that 'the end justifies
the means think what would become of society,
it
                                  :
                                     '
                                                        is,

                                                        it
                                                                             is

                                                                      a if
were universally adopted, and certainly so, in

degree, wherever we set up our limited conceptions

of what may be useful, as a sufficient warrant to depart

from that line of rectitude pointed out by Infinite

Wisdom, for the government of His creatures. In

this case there would be no standard of right, and

every man would be at liberty to adopt his own. Let

us, dear                         earnestly endeavor to render all our
        it,
                              ,
actions acceptable to the Divine Being, and, depend

upon we shall not go far wrong. We cannot plead

ignorance of His will, since, in addition to the sacred

writings, He has promised to assist with His Holy

Spirit those who humbly apply to Him for aid. With

the assistance, then, of Infinite Wisdom, and the pro
tection of Infinite Power, what ought we to fear "
                                                    ?
Acting decidedly for God and truth towards dis
                                                        I
cerning minds, will produce more respect than enmity,

and so did in this case. The faithful remonstrance
I
       it
                       :
                                   a

                             I
was the means of cementing, rather than dissolving

their friendship, as brief extract from a letter written

by the individual reproved, a short time afterwards,

will show --
   " shall ever think of you with the dearest affec

tion. Whether our society continue or separate,

trust that, through life, you will think of me, with

some of the affection which feel for you."
                      CHAPTER V.

 LABORS IN VARIOUS INSTITUTIONS -- PUBLICATION OF
                       " THE PHILANTHROPIST."

   HE whose joy had been so great at the passing of
the Slavetrade Abolition Bill, would watch with a
jealous eye any infringement of its wholesome clauses.
It was scarcely to be expected that persons, who for

many years had engaged in the horrid traffic, and
accumulated wealth by its means, would easily relin
quish their unjust gains without making some

clandestine efforts. An atrocious attempt to evade its
penalties was made even in the port of London, which
happily reached the ears of Mr. Allen and his friends.

  A vessel called the Commercio de Rio, three hundred

and sixty tons burden, was fitted out by a Portuguese
house in London, to engage in this abominable traffic;
its proceedings were narrowly watched for some time,
and when the proofs became sufficiently strong an in
formation was laid, and the vessel seized in consequence:
on board were found ninety-three pairs of handcuffs,
one hundred and ninety seven iron shackles for the
feet, several hundred-weights of iron chain, and fifty-
five dozen of padlocks, together with mess-kits, and a
large store of those provisions which are usually des
tined for the miserable inhabitants of these horrid
dungeons ; the main-deck gratings were concealed by
1810.]  SLAVE VESSEL CONDEMNED.  73

a slight covering, which to the eye appeared like a

common deck, but so contrived as to be easily removed

when the vessel got to sea ; she was in other respects
fitted up as a slave-ship, and capable of carrying from
six to eight hundred slaves. Great precautions were

taken, and much intrigue employed, to prevent suspi

cion and impose upon government. A person high

in office, as a Portuguese agent, exerted his influence

with the British Cabinet, to palliate this nefarious
business, but the vigilance of the friends of humanity,
and the laws of our country, detected and punished
the attempt. The vessel was valued at twenty thous

and pounds ; both that and her cargo were condemned
in the Court of Exchequer, and subsequently sold.

   Six months afterwards Mr. Allen observes, that
" the Commercio de Rio being finally condemned, it is

thought right that the owners should be prosecuted

for the penalties ; and I think it is a very proper measure,

for it will not only operate as a peaceful check, but may
bring to light some of the hidden things of darkness

by the investigations which must take place on a

trial."
   The African Institution engaged a large portion of

his time, and became an object of great interest to

individuals, whose names are familial to us as house
hold words, and whose efforts in the cause of freedom
have earned them a just fame. The following extract
will show how a committee, consisting chiefly of nobles
and members of Parliament, wrought on behalf of

the slave : --
   "African Institution at one. The Duke of Glou

cester, as usual, at his post, and manifesting .1 lively
74  SKETCH OF PAUL CUFFEE.  [1811.

. interest in the important subjects under discussion.

 The old veterans in the cause, Granville Sharpe, Wil-
 berforce, William Smith, and others, were present;
 indeed, the majority of the company were members
 either of one or the other House of Parliament.

 Wilberforce brought forward some very important
 resolutions respecting the Island of Trinidad, which

 produced some very judicious observations from Gran
 ville Sharpe and Brougham, who has been brought
 into Parliament. We were informed that at the taking
 of Guadaloupe about three hundred black soldiers in

 the French service were made prisoners, that they
 were afterwards distributed on board the ships of the

 squadron, and sold as prize goods at Martinique, for
 the benefit of the army and navy. The Duke of

 Gloucester manifested much displeasure at this pro

ceeding, and if ministers do not attend to it promptly,

 William Smith and Brougham are determined to move
an inquiry in the House of Commons ; for the French,

 in their capitulation, had expressly stipulated that the
 black people in their service should be considered
 free men, and be no more reduced to a state of bond

 age."

    During the year 1810, Paul Cuffee, a man of color,
 was brought under the notice of the African Institu
tion by Mr. Allen. His arrival in England he regarded
as a circumstance of great importance to Africa, as
 likely to introduce a more extensive system of com
 merce in that neglected and debased territory. His
 interesting history is thus narrated : --

    "The father of Paul Cuffee was a native of Africa,

 whence he was taken as a slave to Massachusetts.
1811.]  ARRIVAL IN AMERICA.  75

Like many of his countrymen he possessed a mind

superior to his condition, and although diligent in the

business of his master, by great industry and economy

he was enabled to purchase his liberty.
    " Paul's father died when he was about fourteen,

leaving a considerable property in land, but which,

being at that time unproductive, afforded little provi
sion for his mother and her family of ten children.

   " His enterprising mind was soon directed to com

merce, as he conceived that it furnished more ample
rewards to industry than agriculture. He therefore,
at the age of sixteen, entered as a common hand on
board a vessel destined for the Bay of Mexico. After

continuing four years in a subordinate capacity, he
commenced business on his own account. He expe

rienced many hardships, and was more than once taken

by pirates and pillaged of everything, but he seemed

to possess that active courage which is the offspring
of a mind satisfied of the practicability of its plans,
and conscious of the power to accomplish its purpose.
His labors were ultimately crowned with success, and

in 1795, he was master of a schooner of sixty- nine
tons burden. On his arrival at one of the American

ports, the people were filled with astonishment and

alarm ; a vessel, owned and commanded by a black
man, and manned with a crew of the same complexion,

was unprecedented ; suspicions were raised, and sev
eral persons associated for the purpose of preventing
him from registering his vessel, or remaining among
them ; on examination, however, his papers proved to

be correct, and therefore the custom-house officers

could not legally oppose his proceeding. Paul con-
76  CUFFEE BECOMES A FRIEND.  [1811.

 ducted himself with candor, modesty and firmness;

 his crew also behaved not only inoffensively, but with
 conciliating propriety. In a few days the inimical
 association vanished, and the inhabitants treated him

 and his crew with respect and even kindness.
    "Gradually his property increased, and by his in

 tegrity and consistency of conduct, he gained the
 esteem and regard of his fellow-citizens. He had a

 share in two vessels, one a brig called the Traveller,
 of 162 tons burden, commanded by his nephew,
 Thomas Waincr, and the ship Alpha, of 268 tons bur
 den, of which he was the commander; the rest of the
 crew consisted of seven men of color.

    " He had made application to be united with the
religious Society of Friends, and was admitted into
membership with that body. For several years he
had turned his attention to the colony of Sierra Leone,

being induced to believe, by his communications from

Europe, as well as from other sources, that endeavors
to contribute to its welfare, and to promote the best

interests of his fellow-men in that portion of the globe,

might not be ineffectual."

    The Monthly Meeting to which he belonged, and
the African Institution, approved of his benevolent de

signs, and encouraged him to procure a cargo at

Sierra Leone, and proceed with the Traveller to this

country. For this purpose it was necessary for him
to be furnished with a license for the importation of
African produce, as, according to former navigation

laws, no articles could be brought to this country, in
an American vessel, either direct from the place of its
growth, or from any other country without express
1811.]  MR. ALLEN VINDICATES CUFFEE.  77

permission. Mr. Allen obtained the interest of Wil-

berforce, who procured an order in council, which
brought him to England in 1811.

   In a letter to the excellent Mr. Clarkson, Mr. Allen

relates, that on the vessel entering the dock at Liver
pool, " a press-gang came on board, and examined
the crew, most of whom had protections, two were
bound to him by indenture, and one of these, Aaron
Richards, a shipwright of Sierra Leone, whom Paul
took solely for the purpose of teaching him naviga
tion, with a view to benefit the colony, was taken away.
Thou mayst be sure that on receiving this information,

I made the best of my way to Macaulay."

    Macaulay had received a letter from some person in

office in Sierra Leone, cautioning him to be on his
guard against any " representations that Paul Cuflbe

might make, as no credit whatever was to be attached
to anything he might say." Mr. Allen was just the
man to investigate such a report-- he entertained the
despised son of Ham in his house -- sent a memorial

to the Board of Trade vindicating his character -- "got
off" the impressed man, Aaron Richards," and had
an explanation with Macaulay. He tells Richard

Reynolds of Bristol : " Clarkson and I are both of the

mind that the present opportunity for promoting the
civilization of Africa, through the means of Paul Cuflbe,
should not be lost ; he seems like a man made on

purpose for the business; he has great experience as
well as integrity." On he went till he obtained a

special meeting of the Board of Directors of the

African Institution, before whom he introduced Paul

Cuflcv. L-t him describe it:--
78  CUFFEE'S DISINTERESTEDNESS.  [1811.

  "Eighth Month 2jth. -- I was called upon to state
the business, which I endeavored to do as briefly as

possible. Paul was then called in, and introduced to
the Duke of Gloucester, who asked him several ques
tions, as did others also ; he returned satisfactory

answers, and his simplicity and strong natural good
sense made a great impression upon all parties. The
Duke appeared much gratified, and after Paul Cuffee
had withdrawn, a vote of thanks was passed to him,

and a committee appointed to see what use might be
made of him. Macaulay had Paul to dine with him
on Second-day, and gave him a letter to Governor
Maxwell, of Sierra Leone, and also to Judge Smith,

which I hope will soften the latter. Captain Clarke,

from New Bedford, dined with me on the Fifth-day;
he has known him from a boy, and states that a person
of greater integrity and honor in business, he never

met with. I did not give the smallest hint which

might call forth this declaration."
   " The next day after a religious service, in which

Paul engaged, I was," says Mr. Allen, " very busy in

getting seeds .and various articles together for him,
and presented him with a telescope. We had an
affecting parting, as it is not very probable we shall
see him any more. He has left a wife and eight
children, and a profitable business in which he was
engaged, to forward the views of the African Institu
tion, and this at the risk of his person and property."

   After Paul's departure, Mr. Allen opened a corre
spondencc with John Kezell, a native of Sierra Lconc,
to whom he sent presents of different articles likely to
1811.]  RESULTS OF EFFORTS FOR AFRICA.           79

be useful in the colony, including seeds, tools, books,

etc. He remarks :--
   " Dr. Roxburgh, of Calcutta, has forwarded some

more seeds to Sierra Leone, and among them a species

of aloe-tree, the wood of which, Lord Valencia says,

frequently sells for its weight in silver, being highly

valued as a perfume. This explains some passages in
scripture, as 'trees of lign aloes,' --'aloes with all the

chief spices,' etc."

He was soon cheered with letters from Africa, and

in a note accompanying them to the Duke of Glou
cester, he states :--

   "The results have justified my most sanguine ex

pectations; I see now that the colonists of Sierra

Leone want only a stimulus to their industry, that

they are looking to us for and that we can afford
        is
without the slightest inconvenience to ourselves."it,

   Specimens were also sent him of African cord, ait

substitute for hemp, which proved very strong, and ;

                                                             a

                                                                 it
samples of indigo, which were found about half as

good as that sold by the East India Company at 45.
&/. per lb., and quite as good as that which was first

brought over to England by the Company.

Sierra Leone now a flourishing colony; but who

can tell what the efforts of such men as Mr. Allen and

his compeers have contributed to its elevation?

Those who have ever attempted to conduct periodi

cal know the extreme difficulties with which editors

whose minds and time are exclusively confined to

that object, are often encompassed but for a man of

Mr. Allen's occupation to embark in such an enter

prise, seemed as daring as  was almost certain
80  STARTS THE PHILANTHROPIST.  [1812.

of failure. Yet his ever-active mind had been for

some time occupied in preparing a little periodical, to

be entitled " The Philanthropist." In this work, he
obtained the assistance of several of his friends. In

his prospectus, he states :
   " The sole object of the present work is to stimulate

to virtue and active benevolence, by pointing out to

those who have the disposition and the power the
means of gratifying the best feelings of the heart, and
to show that all, even the poorest, may render material
assistance in ameliorating the condition of man.

   " The unity of design which the contemplative mind
will perceive in the effects of Almighty power, guided
by infinite wisdom in the production of good, makes

it evident that a human being, in fulfilling the purposes
of his creation, and promoting his own happiness, must
of necessity promote that of his fellow-creatures ; for

he then acts harmoniously with the divine intention,
and it will be found that, as we approach more nearly

to the standard of perfection, we shall be more fully

imbued with love to our species, and even become
anxious to promote the welfare of all within the sphere
of our influence.

    " They, on the other hand, who are out of this

divine harmony, are not only miserable in themselves,
but the cause of misery to others; and to this circum

stance may in great measure be attributed the evils

which desolate the world, --such being, in the energetic
language of the apostle, ' hateful and hating one

 another."

    In a letter from I lenry, now Lord Brougham, writ

"Iten in allusion to "The Philanthropist," he says --
1812.]  ESSAY ON DETRACTION.  81

should before this time have answered your kind letter,
and thanked you for the sheets of the new work.

I need not say how greatly I approve of it. Nothing

has been planned for a very long time which has given

me more real pleasure, and I hope I shall hereafter

be able to show my zeal and anxious wishes for it;

success more substantially than by any expression of

good-will ; but when I explain to you how I am cir

cumstanced Iat present, am confident you will see

how impossible it is to me to contribute anything to
the first number."

    This excellent publication continued its acceptable

career, feeding multitudes with wholesome truths,
under the fostering hand of its unpaid editor, with all
his numerous engagements, for a period of twenty

years. As a specimen, the following excellent article
from Mr. Allen's pen, on the vice of detraction, may
show the useful tendencies of " The Philanthropist : "--

    "Detraction is the natural infirmity of little minds,
whose envy is excited by the contemplation of talents
 superior to their own, or of virtues which they will

 not take the pains to imitate ; but those who feel
 mortified by a consciousness of inferiority of talent,
 should reflect, that none can aspire to a greater honor
 than the approbation of Him who dispenses his gifts
 in such proportion as He sees meet, and requires
 nothing but a due application of what He has bestowed,
 whether it be more or less. Minds devoid of true

 courage are also prone to detraction, and even persons
 not destitute of benevolent feelings are apt to fall into

 this vice through inadvertence.
    " The affections and sympathies of our nature, and
82            ESTEEM AND LOVE.                           [1812.

the consciousness of the need of mutual support, are

the bonds which connect mankind in society. The

individuals of which it is composed are necessarily

dependent on each other, and that not merely in a

pecuniary point of view, but as regards those comforts

and refined pleasures which alone render society

desirable.  It becomes our interest, then, as it

assuredly is our duty, to study and promote the

happiness of those with whom we are connected, and

that not only upon great occasions, which seldom

occur, but particularly in those daily and minute inci

dents which chiefly mark the course of our lives. A

gloomy look and sullen silence, where there are no

isobvious reasons forstrike damp through tho
       a
                         ischeerful circle, and the individual has only the melan
                             is
choly satisfaction of having made others uncomfort
                                   it,
                                                  isable as well as himself. Much, indeed, depends upon

                                                      a

                                                  if
the manner in which we conduct ourselves, even in

actions otherwise indifferent, and the same words pro

nounced in different tones produce opposite effects.

A rigid and austere carriage a great drawback from

those whose virtue commands our esteem. Esteem

and love, however, are different things, and the latter

    only secured by unaffected gentleness of manners,

and constant attempt to direct all our words and

actions to promote the comfort and happiness of

others. This  true politeness, and nothing more

than Christianity requires. We are commanded to

love our neighbors as ourselves; and we do this

sincerely, we shall be very careful of throwing out

any insinuations which n;ay tend to their prejudice.

Perhaps nothing more destructive to the peace, and
1812.]            ILLNESS AT HASTINGS.                           88

even the comfortable existence of society, than detrac

tion. Hence, in the sacred writings, ' whisperers and
backbiters ' are classed among the ' workers of iniquity,'

and as their mischief is so insidious, they should be

as carefully avoided as persons more openly wicked.
' Thou shalt not curse the deaf,' was a law promulgated

from the highest authority ; and this law, so far from

being abrogated, is strengthened and extended by the
Christian dispensation. The spirit of this injunction

prohibits any attack upon a person not in a situation

to defend himself, as is the case with those who are

absent. 'As   ye  would,   tthheemre.f'o"re,  that men should    do
              ye  also to
unto you, do

None of these additional services abridged his ordi

nary labors. The article on detraction was written at
Hastings, during a season of suffering from " uneasi

ness about the heart," brought on by incessant toil.

A note penned by him there states the select duties

to which he intended, in future, to restrict himself,

and all will agree with him in the conclusion, that
       are " enough for one man."
Ifthe"y                                       must  allot  time  for
        favored to return home, I

particular purposes, and take double care not to over

load myself with engagements, as a constant round
of occupation is injurious to mind and body. The

following great objects are enough for one man, and

I must resist all attempts to engage me in more, viz.:

the Overseership of Gracechurch-street Monthly Meet

ing; Lancaster's concern; Spitalfields Local Associa
tion for the Poor; Spitalfields School ; Philanthropist;

Lectures; General Association for the Poor; Bible

Society."
84            BENEVOLENT EXERTIONS.                    [1810.

    Good man ! when a temptation presented itself to

serve God's cause, or the poor, away went all his noble

resolutions --the tide of benevolence broke down all

the barriers of prudence. A few extracts, taken

almost at random, before and after the restrictions he

imposed on himself, will show they were not as the
laws of the Medes and Persians. Here are four days'
work :--

   " Third Month ^th. --To Devonshire House to meet

committee on subscription for British prisoners in

France.

   "6th. --Three o'clock, Borough-road, to meet the

Duke of Gloucester, etc. ; W. Bootle, Sir John Scb-
right, and W. Wilberforce were there ; they seemed

much gratified.

   " Jth. -- Capital punishment committee, at four; full
attendance ; B. Foster resigned the office of secretary,

which I took up.

   "8th. --Thatched House Tavern, about two. Lan

caster's committee ; Duke of Bedford present ; good

attendance."

a  pOanratghreap2h2dfoor fthtehe"  same month we find  him writing
                                   Times " newsp~oer,  in answer to

an attack upon Spitalfields School.

   Sir John Sinclair urged him to give some lectures
at the Board of Agriculture, which he declined ; but

in the next month they elected him an honorary

member of the Board, and he informs us, -- " I must

now write a small pamphlet, in a popular style, on

the best form of wheel carriages and roads. It had,

perhaps, better be first given in lectures at the Board."
1810.]  LECTURES ON WHEEL CARRIAGES.  85

    In a few months we find the following lamenta
tions :--

   " My spirits much depressed on several accounts--
as humbling views of myself, and feelings of great
inward poverty --school concern -- my treatise for the
Board of Agriculture -- impending lectures --business,

Ietc., but must brush up, and hope for the best. I

have certainly been helped hitherto, and trust that
He who knows my most secret intentions, will merci
fully continue His assistance." Some time afterwards

he tells us :--" I went to the Board of Agriculture,
where I gave my first lecture on wheel carriages --

about twenty of the nobility were present." Again :--
"Board of Agirculture ; lecture on roads, No. 2; well

satisfied."

   His friend Davy could not part with his services at
the Royal Institution, and Mr. Allen's heart could
scarcely refuse the following delicate application : --

          " MY DEAR ALLEN,

   "As you are a professor of Natural Philosophy at

the Institution, your name, of course, must appear in
the list of lecturers. I hope you will contrive to give
some lectures. Mr. Pond will take a considerable
part of optics and mechanics. Perhaps you will give
a few, six for instance, on Pneumatics and Hydraulics.
But you must be governed by your own convenience;
your time is too precious to be employed in any way
that is not pleasant to you, and that docs not coincide

with your own views of utility. I hoped to have met

you at Dr. Babington's, on Saturday, but was disap

pointed. I trust you are quite well, and that you do
86  SOCIETY FOR LABORING POOR.  [1810.

not injure your health by your unceasing exertion to
promote all good things.

      " I am, my dear Allen, most sincerely yours,

                                                          " H. DAVY."

   The Hospital also clave to him, and would not dis

pense with his acceptable and useful addresses. Hence
we read : " Began my lectures this week at the Hos

pital. I appear to feel much less when I get into them,

than in the anticipation."
   The continuance of war gave him a large amount

of labor for the poor. Bread was one shilling and six
pence a loaf, and many were out of employ, both in

the manufacturing districts and in the metropolis.

Besides the Soup Society in Spitalfields, the committee
of which consisted of forty persons, who met at his

house, a society was formed in London, to aid local
associations in various parts of the country in relieving

their poor. At a public meeting for this object, held
at Freemason's Tavern, at which the Dukes of York,

Kent, and Cambridge were present, with many of the
nobility and influential members of the senate, a sub

scription was entered into and a committee formed,
of which Mr. Allen, of course, must be one, and it
appears his office was no sinecure. He tells us :

  " I have been lately much engaged in ijie affairs of

the Society for the relief of the Laboring and Manu

facturing Poor. All the letters from different parts

of the country are put into my hands, in order to

digest the information, which is afterwards fairly
entered, under the different heads, in a book kept for
that purpose. The whole forms a most valuable body
1810.]  IMPROVES IN TRIGONOMETRY.  87

of information relative to the state of the poor." Its
usefulness he thus describes :

   " Our Spitalfields association is relieving much
misery, though comparatively a small part of what
actually exists. In the course of a few weeks, we
sold above twenty-one thousand pounds weight of

salt cod, at twopence per pound ; and are selling from
nine hundred to one thousand red herrings every day,
at from two to three for a penny. The distress in

Spitalfields is greatly increased by the rise on potatoes;
government have been sending off many thousand
tons to Spain and Portugal, as well as large quantities
of corn and flour. The consequences to the poor this

winter will, I fear, be dreadful. I am informed that

three times more corn than usual has been already
threshed out since the harvest, and yet markets con

tinue to rise."
   When obliged to retire to the Isle of Wight for a

little recreation after his exertions in the course of the

year, his repose yielded improvement in a science
which few would adopt for hours of recreation.

   " Though absent from business, I have been pretty

busily employed in taking angles and calculating
them, which has considerably improved me in trigo

nometry."
   The singular mixture in the following entry, will

show with what facility his mind turned from one
object to another, and how assiduously every moment

was improved :

   " To town by eight o'clock coach -- learning Greek
cards -- correcting proof of 'Philanthropist' --called
with Lancaster's books, on Joseph Fox, in Argylc-
88  LETTERS FROM HIS MOTHER.  [1810.

street, and thence to S. R., James's-placc ; had a most

satisfactory interview with him, and settled affairs
between him and Lancaster. Dined with Joseph Fox,

after an unsuccessful attempt to meet with Wilbcrforcc

and Brougham --home to Plough-court, and then to

Stewart -street, to take tea with my dear mother."
   The strong affection of his mother towards him was

met on his part by true filial piety. She frequently

conveyed to him in writing, the religious concern she

felt on his behalf; her letters were carefully preserved,
and in many seasons of affliction and discouragement,
he was consoled by her sympathy and strengthened

by her counsel. Paramount indeed must have been
that engagement which would keep him from regu
larly visiting his beloved mother, who knew how to

appreciate his attentions, and repaid them by such
heavenly communications as the following:

   " Thy kind sympathizing attention is extremely
grateful to me, and it is the prayer of my spirit that
the Lord may reward thee with the descending* of
His love and life-giving presence. My drooping mind

was refreshed last evening, in feeling thy mind drawn,
in silence, towards that divine inspcaking Word which

endureth for ever. Mayst thou often, even in the
midst of thy occupations, turn to Him for counsel ;
then wilt thou know all thy steps to be ordered of the
Lord, and in righteousness shalt thou be established.

   " I have frequently admired at the permissions of

Providence concerning thee, even in thy going fro::i

thy father's house. It was a bitter c::p with me to pc.;-t
with tfice, yet the distance being so short, I j;ave thcc

 up, preferring thy apprehended good, and through the
1810.]  LETTERS FROM HIS MOTHER.  89

right dedication of thy talents, the good of others, to

my own gratification. But when I saw the trials, the

Iheart-rending sorrow thou hadst to pass through,

was ready to call in question all that I had believed

right; the cloud was at first too thick to be seen
through by mortal eyes ; but by endeavoring to hold
fast my confidence, my mind was strengthened in the

hope that thou wouldst be preserved through all, and
that by these means thou wouldst be fitted to fill with

humility the station allotted thee in the succeeding

stages of thy life, and surely I have cause to say,

' Good is the word of the Lord.' "
   To the elevated spirit of this holy woman all his

honors, and talents, and success, appeared compara
tively insignificant, while he neglected to devote him

self to the ministry of the Word. That he might be
wise to win souls was the highest ambition of her

sanctified mind. A short time after the former letter,

she sent him the following on the same subject :

          " MY DEARLY BELOVED CHILD,
   " Tl ou wast yesterday morning brought near to my
spirit with much sweetness ; my mind was given to
see what was the mind of Truth concerning thee, and
in the prospect, earnest desires were raised for thy,

preservation, and that thy talents might be dedicated

without reserve, to the Great Giver; then would He
refine and qualify thee to promote His cause on earth,
and make of thee a pillar in His house, to go no more
out. He would likewise enable thec to show unto

others where the pearl of greatest value is to be found ;

thou wouldst not only be set as a watchman on the
90  HELPS FROM GOD.                    [1810

walls of Zion, but thou wouldst also be made instru
mental to turn the attention of the children of men to

that divine gift of grace, which if believed in and

obeyed, would make real Christians, putting an end to
pride, avarice, and contention, and the attendant of

these, --bloodshed ; and making way for the fulfilment
of the angelic anthem, which ushered in the birth of
the Saviour of mankind. -- ' Peace on earth and good

will towards men.' Oh, how I long that the great

design of our blessed Redeemer's example, sufferings,
and death, were more fully accomplished ! and that

thou and others, who have seen in a degree, the
beauty that there is in the Truth, or in other words,

in real vital Christianity, may never turn aside from

its brightness. 'The path of the just is as a shining

light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect

day;' and into this path, I believe beyond a doubt,

thou art called."

    No doubt these exhortations were helps from the

Great Master to keep his piety alive amidst so many

engagements likely to diminish its flame. The house

of God, too, being his loved abode, furnished him with

continued supplies on his pilgrimage. How charac
tcristic are the following entries :--

  " Meeting --to comfort. As I had my lecture to
compose, I deliberated with myself whether I might
not omit meeting ; but I was not easy to do and
    I
                                             if

                                                                         it,
was glad went."                        the Great

   " My prayer has been of late, that

Masterdecm me at allworthyto assist His poor church,
1810.]         CHOSEN OVERSEER OF MEETING.                        91

He would be pleased to qualify me for                      ; it,  and keep
me humble before Him."

        The Society felt the value of his services and when

any special office required an intelligent mind to fill

iIt, it,he was generally elected.
        " Monthly Meeting.
                            was appointed to the station
                          is

                            I
                                   I

                                         O

                                                        a
of overseer. Though conscious of my unfitness for

          was afraid to refuse, lest should shrink from           a

duty, and thereby bring greater spiritual poverty upon

myself. My prayer to be preserved from doing any

harm,     iIf  can do no good.     for grain of true

faith!"

   The next year he tells us that he and his wife were
chosen to the office of elders. The man who could

act according to the great principles he laid down in
the following exhibition of his ardent piety, would be

a rich blessing in any office in which the church could

place him.

   "Still panting, at times, for closer communion with

my great Creator and Preserver, with strong desires
that He would enlighten my mind, and enable me to
promote His work in the heart of others. Without
His favor and countenance, all earthly enjoyments are

vanity, and science foolishness."
   " must learn to bear with and still love my breth
        I
                     I

                                                                                              is
ren, even when think they are acting upon mistaken

principles. O, how must that Great Being, who

truth itself, pity and bear with even those who are
supposed to think and act most correctly! Let all

flesh be humbled before Him."

But of all the concerns to which he was called, he

assures us the Lancasterian lay the heaviest on his
92  SUCCESS OF SCHOOL EFFORTS.  [1811.

mind. It occupied much of his time and demanded
considerable advances of money. The excellent
Richard Reynolds of Bristol assisted him with dona

tions for every benevolent object, specially for schools
for the poor, but at his own request they were anony
mous. In a letter to him Mr. Allen describes the
state of things which called for so much care and

prudence :

   "We have at present nearly forty lads boarded and

clothed at the Borough-road, and training for school
masters. Among them we have two African youths,
sent from Sierra Leone by the Crocodile frigate, which
sailed at the same time as the Traveller. They came
in consequence of the offer made by our school com
mittee to the African Institution. We have also a

promising young man, a Dane, training on Lancaster's
plan, designed for a schoolmaster at Copenhagen. He
was a prisoner of war, but handsomely given up by

our government for this particular purpose. One of

 Lancaster's missionaries is gone to Ireland, and he is
to follow in a few weeks, under the patronage of those
connected with government. Another of his best

young men is engaged by the Americans to open a
 model school upon the plan at George Town, near
 Washington. The applications from the country are
 numerous. Our school-room in Spitalfields is to be

 completed in a fortnight, and we are promoting a
 school for several hundreds in Westminster. Indeed,
 the work goes on in all directions exactly as we could
 wish, or more properly far beyond what we could have

 expected. Nothing discourages us but the unavoidably

 heavy expense which we are obliged to encounter.
1812.]          ADVANCES OF MONEY.  93

The average of our expenditure is sixty pounds per
week ; our income from subscriptions about twenty

pounds ; occasional donations, say nearly equal ; but

if we could make the annual subscriptions three

thousand pounds, we should be quite at ease, and able

gradually to pay off the advances."

  No wonder he inserts in his diary -- " Sometimes I
am uneasy at the pecuniary advances I have made in
the school concern ; but at others I am comforted in

believing it is the Lord's work. May He bless it in
             "
our  hands
            !

His chief difficulty lay with Lancaster, whose impru

dences and thoughtlessness led him and the commit

tee into many troubles. In another letter to Mr.

Reynolds, he states them at length, and the judicious

regulations the committee adopted, an abridgment of
which is here given : --

   " Lancaster took Salvador House at Tooting, with

out consulting any of his friends, and candidly in

formed us that he considered this undertaking as

perfectly distinct from his public work. As he had

given the best part of his life to the public, without

fee or reward, he thought it was high time to consider

the claims which his family had upon him for support.

His plan is to take fifty boarders at forty-two pounds

per annum; a private friend is to lend him eight

hundred or a thousand pounds to fit out, and he thinks

he has a fair prospect of making the concern not only

answer his pecuniary purposes, but promote the great

cause which he still has deeply at heart. Fox and I

were clearly of the mind that the time was now come

for drawing a line between Joseph Lancaster and the
94  LANCASTER'S PRIVATE SCHEME.                                  [1813.

great public work ; for however feasible his private

scheme might be, it was possible it might fail, and if

this should, unhappily, be the case, it would be a great

reproach to us as guardians of the subscriptions, if

these should be laid hold of to pay his private debts.

We found him strongly disposed to put the public

work into our hands entirely, provided we would ex

onerate him from all claims on that account, which we
                                                                 namely :--
agr"eTedhetopudbol,icupwoonrkc,erhtaitinherctoondciatirorniesd,
                                                                 on in the name

of Joseph Lancaster, to be in future conducted solely

by the committee.

   " J. L. to do his utmost to promote the public work,
by superintending the training of masters and mis

tresses, at the Borough-road, and in every other way

wh"icThheshcaollmnmoittteinecuwr ilel xnpoent sbee. responsible for any ex

penses which they have not expressly warranted.

   "The family, and every thing at the Borough-

road, to be solely* under the direction of the com

mittee.

   " Every thing to be ordered, and all bills made out,
in the name of the Committee of the Royal British or

Lancasterian System of Education.

  "J. Lancaster to make over the premises at the

Borough-road, and all the property there, to the trus

tees, as security for their advances.
   " The public will have more confidence in the new

arrangement, and we shall be able to do full as much

good with less expense."
   The following year, 1813, saw the failure of Lan

caster's scheme, and he immediately applied to his old
1813.]  MEETING AT KENSINGTON PALACE.  95

friends for relief. Mr. Allen says :--" Lancaster has

got himself into much difficulty at Tooting, as we
feared he would, and now he expects us to help him.
We have to carry on the great work through much

tribulation."

   The " School concerns " brought Mr. Allen into
more immediate contact with the Duke of Kent. He

thus relates his interview with him on this painful

business :--
   "Sent for by the Duke of Kent. Told him the

whole of the circumstances respecting J. L. He be

haved very kindly, said that we must not give up the
cause, and promised his support to the new arrange
ments. He then entered upon private confidential

business on his own concerns."

   Another interview was appointed, and Mr. Allen
went to Kensington, with Fox and Corston, to meet
the Dukes of Kent and Sussex, and the Duke of Bed
ford. " We fully and frankly stated the nature of our

difficulties with Joseph Lancaster, but I observed that

it would be proper for them to hear his account of the
business -- that he must be made to confine himself to

the points on which he thought he had reason to
complain of the committee, and that we would attend
to answer for ourselves. They were all .quite of this
mind, and the Duke of Kent remarked, that as Lan

caster was a man of a violent temper, it would be

right to have some indifferent person present, and he

knew of no one more likely to manage him than
Whitbread. In this we all agreed, and the Duke of

Bedford undertook to engage him in the business.
The three dukes showed themselves real men of busi-
96  ARRANGEMENTS WITH LANCASTER.                   [1813.

ness and of feeling. We left with them our plan of a

new constitution, and retired, comforting ourselves

with the hope that things were really getting into a

proper train."

   The Royal Dukes prevailed on Joseph Hume to

join Whitbread in the investigation of the business.
This resulted in another most important meeting : --

   " Fox, Whitbread, Joseph Foster, W. Corston, T.

Sturge, Place and Bone from Westminster, J. Hume,
J. Lancaster, and myself met at Kensington Palace.

The Dukes of Kent and Sussex presided. The Duke

of Kent opened the business in a masterly manner,

stating, that his friend Hume having, with great labor,

investigated the whole matter, had digested the sub

jects in regular order, in the form of a report, which

he proposed should be read. This was accordingly
done. It was drawn up with great candor and ability,

and we had little to remark in reference to it. Lan

caster behaved very imprudently, to say the least. In
conclusion, the Duke of Kent told him in substance

that they had agreed upon certain points, which they

were determined to maintain, --that they would give

him time to consider of them coolly, that he might

still be the prominent feature in the business, but that

if he persisted in the conduct he had lately pursued,

they were determined to maintain the cause -without

him. The patience and condescension of the Royal

Dukes, on this occasion, were very      striking.  executed,
                                        deed was
   " It is well for the cause that the
which secures the premises at the Borough-road -- this,

as Fox says, is our sheet anchor."

    The next year at the annual meeting of the School
1813.]  SEPARATION FROM LANCASTER.  97

Society, at Freemason's Hall, Mr. Allen informs us,
"the absolute separation from Lancaster was an
nounced, and we took the title of ' The British and

Foreign School Society.' Every thing went off ad

mirably. I brought home upwards of three hundred

pounds ; the only damp upon our proceedings was our

feeling for the poor infatuated man who first brought

forward this beneficent system. -- Much exhausted."
   While at Cromer, Mr. Allen received the following

admirable letter from the Duke of Kent, expressing
his feelings both to the institution and towards Lan
caster :--

                   " Kensington Palace, August 1$, 18ij.

           " FRIEND ALLEN,

  " I duly received, this morning, your esteemed favor

of yesterday, and was highly gratified in finding that
the exertions of myself and brother, on Friday last, at

the committee, were noticed by you in so feeling and

friendly a manner. I only hope that, in the end, suc

cess may attend our exertions, and harmony, with good

discipline, be restored. It can scarcely be necessary

for me to observe, that your conduct, and that of the
trustees throughout, has impressed both of us with
sentiments of admiration. With respect to the unfor

tunate J. L., I cannot help fearing, that vanity and dis

tress united, have bereaved him of the power of

judgment, but I trust, in a little time, we shall be

able to convince him of the folly of the former, and
relieve his mind of the latter; and that we shall be
able to avail ourselves of his services, by remunerating

them liberally and marking out his line, so that he
98  LETTER FROM DUKE OF KENT.  [18UJ.

cannot possibly stray from it. I hope Fox and Hume-

together will be able to get on rapidly with the new
code of regulations, and whenever they are ready, my
brother and myself, with the Duke of Bedford and

Mr. Whitbread, will be ready to meet them. Know

ing, as I do, Mr. Hume's uprightness, clear-headed
ness, and perseverance, I am convinced you could not

have a more efficient co-adjutor. With respect to my

own affairs, the moment I can avail myself of your
advice, with advantage, I will do myself the pleasure
of addressing you again. In the meanwhile I remain,

with regard and esteem, friend Allen, yours, faithfully,
                                                      " EDWARD."
           CHAPTER VI.

NEW LANARK, AND INTERVIEW WITH THE EMPEROR OF

                                             RUSSIA.

THE efforts of Mr. Allen to carry out the humane

and beneficent designs of the Society for the Abolition

of Capital Punishment, received a new impulse by a

case which he describes in a letter to Lord Sidmouth.

It was as follows :

  A young man, about twenty-two years of age, ex

tremely ignorant, not being able to read or write, and

exhibiting no indications of a ferocious disposition,

was condemned to death. This poor wretch, it seems,

crept in at the window of a house, stole property to

the amount of a few shillings, and withdrew without

any attempt to commit a personal injury. A petition

was sent to Mr. Allen from Cardiff, where the young

man was awaiting his sentence, imploring a commuta

tion of the terrible and disproportionate punishment.

"IHe was the right man to be entrusted with such a
document.  took it," he states, "to Inglis, then

went to Vansittart, to get a note of introduction to

Lord Sidmouth, but Vansittart kindly went with me

himself. Lord S. received me politely, but seemed

bent upcn hanging the man at the instance of the

judge. Came home too much depressed to do any

thing with comfort."

                      (99)
100            SAVES THE LIFE                                  [181&

; If,  however, he was robbed of his comfort, his de

pressed spirit gave his pen unusual power to plead for
the prisoner with heart-stirring eloquence. To Lord

Sidmouth he writes
   " Shall person, to whom, be remembered, society
       a                              if

                                   :     is
                                               a
has failed in its duty by suffering him to grow up in
                                                 it
ignorance, for the crime of stealing few shillings,
                                                     it, a
and without any aggravating circumstances, be cut off
                                                           II
in the prime of life, suffer the very same punishment

which you inflict upon him who has been guilty of

the most barbarous murder, and, in short, endure the

greatest punishment which one human being can inflict

upon another?
   '. Many will not prosecute when plundered of their

property, lest the felon, convicted, should lose his

life hence for want of a law inflicting adequate pun

ishment, an offender escapes to commit new depreda

tions, and derives further encouragement by calculating

upon his chances. Everything seems planned to avenge

society of its injuries, while the means for preventing
their increase are almost completely overlooked. To

reform the guilty, and to restore them as useful mem

bers of the community,                             glorious triumph of

humanity, and marks a state rising in the scale of

civilization; but to have no other resource than the

punishment of death, reminds me of the miserable

subterfuge of a barbarous age, barren in expedients

to save, strong only to destroy.
   " Excuse me for speaking out freely on this awful

occasion; indeed the case demands                    and should

despise myself under such circumstances, felt anif,

inclination to shrink from the performance of my duty;
1813.]  OF A CONDEMNED CRIMINAL.    101

in endeavoring to discharge it however, I hope I have

not failed in the respect due to a person in thy distin

guished situation, and as I know that thy feelings must

have been strongly excited on this distressing subject,

I hope thou wilt be pleased to make some allowance

for mine."
   Two days afterwards he tells us : " Went up to Lord

Sidmouth, at Whitehall ; met with a very favorable

reception, and had a long interview on W. Morgan's
Icase.
        find a respite of ten days is sent down, in

order to give time to consult the judge. I have no

doubt now that the man's life will be spared." Before

the expiration of three days, he received a note from

Lord Sidmouth, stating thai it had been recommended

to the Prince Regent to commute the sentence of W.

Morgan to transportation for life.

Happily for us, the subsequent amelioration of our

criminal code renders it unnecessary to print all the

powerful arguments of Mr. Allen to Lord Sidmouth,

in favor of the prevention of crime by education and

labor. To him and his faithful coadjutors in this God

like work, society is indebted for the improvement of

our laws in the treatment of criminals ; and although

prison discipline is a subject still encompassed with

difficulties, this fact stands out in bold relief, that

severity never reclaims from vice. And who that

drinks into the spirit of our holy religion, must not

devoutly pray that every vestige of sanguinary ven

geance may speedily be blotted from our statute book,

and the lowest criminals, by education and pastoral

instruction be taught that Christianity is emphatically --

love. In a letter to Sir Robert Harry Inglis, then
10'J  NEW LANARK.  [1813.

private secretary to Lord Sidmouth, Mr. Allen, after
eulogizing his lordship for the kindness he had shown

to the poor culprit, utters a desire which every un
prejudiced mind still echoes:

  " I wish it were in my power to convince those,

who, from their situation and influence, are able to
give full effect to the measure, that it is possible to
make arrangements for the education of every poor
child in the kingdom at a very trifling expense to the

public, upon some general flan in which good men
of all descriptions might cordially unite ; this would

do more towards diminishing crime, than all the penal
statutes that could be enacted."

   The suffering state of the working population in our
manufacturing districts had been peculiarly brought
under the notice of Mr. Allen, by his indefatigable
labors in the society established in London for their
relief, and, both in a moral and political point of view,
it was cause of serious anxiety to many reflecting

minds.

   His hopes were raised of the practicability of im
proving their condition, by hearing of the good which
had been effected through the benevolent exertions of
the proprietors of the cotton mills at New Lanark,

established in the first instance by the benevolent and
pious David Dale, near the falls of the Clyde. The
temporal and moral benefits of a population amount

ing to more than 2000 persons, had been greatly pro
moted by the admirable system pursued in them.
The mills had been in operation about thirteen years,
and during that period none of the workmen had
applied for relief from public charity, nor had one of
1814.]  ARTICLES OF PARTNERSHIP.  103

 them been called before a magistrate for any offense.

 Robert Owen, who married a daughter of the founder,
long had the management of the works, but by a dis
solution of the partnership, they were obliged to be
sold by public auction. With great conflict, on account
of the responsibility it involved, Mr. Allen determined
to unite with Joseph Fox, John Walker, and Robert
Owen, in the purchase, in order that Robert Owen
might carry out Mr. Dale's noble plans for the eleva
tion of the manufacturing poor. The parties came
under an engagement to secure Mr. Allen from loss
for one year, and that they would take his shares if he

felt uneasy and disposed to relinquish them, on giving

notice.

    The year 1814, opens with a memorandum :
   " Received letters from my friend Fox, with the
information that the Lanark mills are ours. May the

divine blessing attend the undertaking, and may we be

kept humble and cautious !"

  A proof of the feelings which actuated the new pro

prietors, was given by the care they took in framing
the articles of partnership, which will not find many

parallels at that period. They provided for the reli
gious education of all the children of the laborers em
ployed in the works ; and " that nothing should be

introduced tending to disparage the Christian religion,

or undervalue the authority of the Holy Scriptures.
   " That no books should be introduced into the

library, until they had first been approved of at a
general meeting of the partners. That schools should
be established on the best models of the British, or

other approved system to which the partners might
104  ARTICLES OF PARTNERSHIP.  [1814.

 agree; but no religious instruction, or lessons on

 religion, should be used, except the Scriptures, accord
 ing to the authorized version, or extracts therefrom

without note or comment; and that the children should

not be employed in the mills belonging to the partner
ship, until they were of such an age as not to be
prejudicial to their health."

    Mr. Allen applied to Lord Sidmouth for a charter
for Lanark, which it does not appear, from future
memoranda, was granted. In the autumn, he and his

family visited Lanark. Here, it appears, for the first
time he discovered " the peculiar opinions " of Owen.
After long conversation with him, he came to this
conclusion :

   " I found the arrangements, with regard to the

manufacturing part, excellent, and even beyond my
expectations ; but, alas ! Owen, with all his cleverness
and benevolence, wants the one thing, without which,

parts, acquirements, and benevolence are unavailing."

   Joseph Fox subsequently joined their party, and

found that nothing but the most decided stand for
religious truth could preserve it among the work
people. They therefore " sat down with Owen, to a
most important discussion of several points in the
articles of partnership, particularly those relating to

the training of the children, and the use of the Holy
Scriptures in the schools. The latter, Fox and I

made a sine qua non, at least as far as we are concerned,

and Owen at length yielded."

   At the close of the year, the affair was brought to a

conclusion by signing the articles of partnership, an
act which Mr. Allen thus describes, and his own feel-
1814.]     REASONS FOR SIGNING THEM.      105

ings concerning it. The record exhibits his piety and

honor in a very lovely light.
   " This was indeed a memorable week ; on Seventh-

day, the 24th, John Walker, Joseph Fox, Joseph
Foster, Michael Gibbs, and I, signed the articles of

partnership in the Lanark concern, and forwarded

them to R. Owen for his signature ; glad should I

have been could I have avoided it ; but considering

all the religious feelings which have attended my

mind on this subject for a year past, I considered it
my duty to join, and signed in the faith that I was

brought into it for some purpose not seen as yet.

Looking upon it on the prudential side, I cannot but

see the risk of a great concern, interwoven with the
state of human politics and continental arrangements ;

also the great stake committed very much to the pru

dence of one man. On the other hand, the sense of

Iduty I felt in engaging in it; the prayers have put

up night and day that if it were wrong I might feel

a timely check; that it would not be generous to
desert some of the other parties, who maintained that

they would have nothing to do with but on condi

tion of my being one the probability that may be
           I;                ;

                                  it,

                                       I
the bond of union between them the wide field of

usefulness where we have the control of three thousand

people; the strength might give in opposing any

infidel plans of R. O.'s, -- all these have turned the
scale, and must leave the result in the hands of
        I

Infinite Wisdom and O, that  I  and mine may be

under His protection
           ;

                   !"

   Various circumstances gave occasion to test the
principles on which Mr. Allen acted, in which his
106  PROOFS OF DISINTERESTEDNESS.                                         [1814.

integrity and honor remarkably triumph. During the

progress of an investigation into the hardships suf

fered by the black settlers at Sierra Leone, before

the African Society, a sentiment was expressed that

with respect to supplying slave-traders from the stores,

it is not the business of the managers to inquire what
                       "fomr,ainiftatinheed,petohpalet
the things are wanted                                    bring their
money ; but Mr. Allen                                   admitting it

was not their business to inquire, yet when a man

comes and says, ' I want a supply of articles for the

purpose of buying slaves,' or where we have every

reason to believe that things are wanted for that pur

pose, they cannot be supplied without a degree of
participation in the guilt. I stated my own case, in

which a merchant, with whom I had done considerable
business, sent me a large sea chest to refit. I suspected,

from the nature of that was destined for the slave-
                     it it,
                                it

                                  I
trade, and, on inquiry at the merchant's counting-

house, found that was so.            then told him that                   Ia I

could not, consistently with my feelings and principles,

derive profit from, or at all aid or assist in, such

business. They, of course, sent for the chest, and

lost their custom."

The African Institution, though conferred many
                                     it

advantages on the black settlers, did not answer all

the wishes of its founders, in consequence, as stated in
its first report, of " its fixed determination not to

engage in commercial speculations." The settlers

found great difficulty in parting with their produce to
their satisfaction, and they had no way of conveying

to England so as to make the most of themselves.
it
                                                                      it

On this point Mr. Allen differed in opinion from some
1814.]  FORMS A NEW AFRICAN SOCIETY.                            107

whom he regarded with love and reverence, and toa
                              it,
carry out his convictions a new society was formed, as
                                                             :
the following notice imports :                          ;

  "A meeting at Plough-court, of an important nature

for Africa. Thomas Clarkson, George Harrison,

Samuel Hoare, Jr., T. J. Forster, B. Forster, and Charles

Barclay met, and we formed ' a Society for the purpose
of encouraging the Black Settlers of Sierra Leone,
and the natives of Africa generally, in the cultivation
of their soil by the sale of their produce.' Samuel
Hoare was appointed Treasurer, and William Allen,

Secretary. Amongst the resolutions agreed to at its

formation, was that the society shall raise a fund, not

by loan but by free gift, and that it shall appoint a

committee to manage and that no member shall de
rive emolument from the transactions of the society."

   In communication to Richard Reynolds of Bris
tol, the following year, we have an account of the
settlement of the difficulties of this infant institution,

in a manner which reflects the highest honor on Mr.
Allen's disinterestedness --

   "The committee, which was held at my house, was

most respectably attended Samuel Hoare, Sr., was in
the chair; his son was also present, together with

Robert Barclay (brewer), G. and A. R. Barclay, Lord

Carrington, John Smith, M. P., the Forsters (bankers),
T. F. Buxton, etc., etc., etc. One of the first questions
was, how far, according to the letter of the law, the
parties could be considered 'traders,' as most of them
felt delicately upon that point; having, by their articles
of partnership, bound themselves from engaging in
any other trade and Sir Samuel Romilly's opinion,
        ;
108  SPOKE TO VANSITTART.  [1814.

in a letter addressed to me upon the subject, having
confirmed their doubts, they got over the difficulty by
prevailing upon me to take the whole responsibility,
and to permit all the transactions to take place in my

name ; I insisted however, on having some one to join

me, and named John Clarkson, who, thou mayst re
collect, was for some time governor of the colony ;
this was agreed to, and S. Hoare formed a minute,
stating that the money was actually given to us for
certain purposes, without requiring an account. This
seemed to settle all their fears. Lord Carringtcn paid
in fifty pounds; this with the bounty of thyself and
friends, with some other subscriptions, makes our capi
tal about five hundred pounds.

  " I spoke to Vansittart upon the subject of giving

facilities to the importation of African produce. This,
with the exception of sugar, he readily agreed to do,

Iand before came away, gave orders that a memoran

dum should be made for a bill to be brought into
Parliament, without loss of time, to put Sierra Leone
produce on a footing with all British colonies with
respect to duties, which is not the case at present."

   Mr. Reynolds very justly remarks, in reply to Mr.
Allen,--

   " The expedient adopted to prevent the subscribers
to our African concern from being joint traders, or, in
this instance, traders at all, would have been equally
satisfactory had they prevailed upon some other suit
able person to have taken upon himself the whole
responsibility, and to permit all the transactions to take

place in his name. I really think thou hast already
1814.]         NOTE FROM WILBEKFORCE.     109

done, and hast engaged to do, more to serve others

than could reasonably be expected from any man."

   Mr. Wilberforce, in a letter to W. Allen, observes: --

" With you I have no reserves. I am persuaded of

your possessing all the qualities of head and heart

which claim attachment, and you possess mine in a

greater degree than in proportion to the opportunities

we have hitherto had of cultivating each other's friend

ship. After saying this, I should not be honest if I
did not however add, ' Tolls cum sis, utinam noster
;esses ' that
               for your own sake, and that of the
I

             is,

                             I
world, wish your religious principles and my own

were more entirely accordant.   fear you may deem

this an approach towards bigotry, but truth seemed to

require the avowal."
   Yet, when he required any object of a liberal nature

carried out, Mr. Allen was the friend to whom he

generally applied though Episcopal prejudices and
               ;

Episcopal advice, large as was the heart of Wilber

force, sometimes prevented him from serving with
similar decision those institutions which Mr. Allen

labored to establish. The following interesting inci:
dent will illustrate the character of the two men --

   " W. Wilberforce called, and stated that he had been

informed the Lascars and Chinese kept at Ratcliffhad

been very ill-used: that they had not sufficient pro;
vision, and that several of them had been unmercifully
flogged that some humane persons in the neighbor
hood had collected a good deal of evidence on the

subject, and he wished T. Clarkson and me to con

sider what could be done.

  " A Lascar cook was brought to us who had been
110  LASCAR'S SOCIETY FOUNDED.                                 [1814.

flogged about a fortnight before. The offence ap

peared to be the food not holding out for the parties

it was designed for ; the marks on his back showed

that the lacerations must have been very deep. After

conferring with one of the directors of the East India

Company, an order arrived from the shipping commit

tee, for' W. Allen, T. Clarkson, and a friend, to visit

the Barracks at all seasonable hours ; ' previous to this,

all access had been refused to strangers.

  " This morning T. Clarkson and I went to the Bar

racks, calling in the way at Wontncr's in the Minories,

a benevolent man who has interested himself on be

half of these poor creatures: we took him with us.

It appears that they are under the authority of a

serang, who punishes them at pleasure."
   After an affecting detail of their suffering condition,

he adds, -- "A regular plan must be resorted to, and

the whole ought to be put under the inspection of

some of the humane inhabitants. There are about

two hundred in the barracks at this time."

On the very next day, we find this brief but telling
entry in his diary :--
orie"sS. e--co' nLdasMcaorn'sthSor^ctieh.ty--'
                                                To Wontner's,  at the Min

                                                 founded."

Happy was the poor oppressed sufferer that obtained

William Allen to espouse his cause, or attempt his

freedom !

   It is peculiarly gratifying to find that, amidst en
gagements which bewilder the head to read them -- of

so absorbing a nature, of such great responsibility, and
requiring such constant application -- his piety kept

pace witli his exertions, and even increased as more
1814,]    ADDRESS TO THE KING OF PRUSSIA.      Ill

extraordinary demands were made upon it. What

heart can be unmoved with the following exquisite

sentiments, which are 'interspersed amidst notices of

hospital lectures, committee meetings of all kinds, the

formation of new institutions, business attentions,

church affairs, the spread of religion, or the relief of a
slave :--

   " Riches, life, and health are uncertain ; but a little
assurance that we are on that foundation which can

not be removed, and that none of the storms and

vicissitudes of life can separate us from the love of
God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord --this adds a
lustre to all that is beautiful in creation, and sweetens

every bitter cup, and even enlightens the darkest
                                            "
scenes  with  a gleam  of peace and  hope
                                           !
" I feel myself, with regard to spirituals, poor and

blind, and naked, and wanting all things, deeply con

vinced that I cannot help myself. May I persevere in

humble application to Him from whom alone help can

come ; may the Saviour strip me of the filthy rags of

my own righteousness, and clothe me with His right
           "
eousness
          !

During the year 1814, the Emperor of Russia and

the King of Prussia, with many of the foreign nobility,

visited London. Mr. Allen took advantage of the op

portunity to seek an interview, in order to plead with

them on behalf of peace and education. As Clerk of

the meeting he wrote two addresses, which the Friends

adopted. That to the King of Prussia, besides con

gratulating him on his arrival, and expressing desires
for his welfare, solicited the continuance- of-his ·kind'/
protection to members of their >o^n persuasion, who

                                     THE:LO.::L i S^IK
112      INTERVIEW WITH HIS MAJESTY.               [1814.

had been sufferers on account of their peculiar opinis,
ions, and faithfully tells him,-- " Our conviction, Ois
King ! that the regard of a monarch to his con
scientious subjects a sure means of promoting the!
best ends of government, as well as of drawing down
upon himself the favor of Almighty God "       it

   That to the Emperor of Russia, after stating their;

peculiarities, and the religious freedom they nowis

enjoyed, continues: -- "The Lord has put into thy1,
heart to' promote the circulation of the Holy Scriptures
among thy subjects; may He bless the endeavor to;

promote their general improvement and as religious: it

inquiry now widely spreading among the nations, and

many pious persons are searching for themselves into the

things pertaining to salvation, we entreat thee, great
Prince, to continue to be an indulgent protector of

such upright and conscientious subjects, wheresoever

found in thy extensive empire."
    Luke Howard and William Allen called upon Baron

Jacobi, the ambassador from the King of Prussia, and

showed him the address, which he seemed to approve,
and promised to show to the king. On the i6th of

June Mr. Allen reports --
    "Stephen Grellet, John Wilkinson, Luke Howard, and

    attended at James' Palace according to appointment

with Baron Jacobi, to present the address to the King
of Prussia after waiting some time, we were told that
the king had been up all night, and was much hurried,
and that the only chance we had of seeing him, was

 by standing in the passage through which he was to
pass to his carriage. When he came up, Baron Jacobi
 directed the king's attention to us, and the address,
1814.]  INTERVIEW WITH COUNT LIEVEN.  113

together with some books, was presented ; S. Grellet
had only time to say a few words in French, and on
adverting to some of our Society in his dominions,

and to the Society's testimony against war, the king
observed, that they were excellent people ; but with
out waiting for the conclusion of the sentence, said,
' war was necessary to procure peace.' "

   The interview with the Emperor of Russia was so
pleasing, and is so graphically written, that it will best
be told in Mr. Allen's language. He had previously
obtained an introductory letter from the Marquis of
Tavistock to Count Lieven, the Russian ambassador.

   " i8th. -- This morning Luke Howard accompanied
me to Count Lieven's, Harley Street. I first made an
apology to him for not taking off my hat, on account
of our religious scruple in this particular, which he
received in a very affable manner. We then explained
the nature of our mission, and gave him a copy of the

address from our religious society to the Emperor
Alexander, in English. He appeared to read every
word with the most marked attention, and very de

liberately ; I watched his countenance, and observed

that his mind was considerably affected by it. He

assured us that he would lay it before the Emperor,
and take his pleasure upon it. He requested me to

attend at the Pulteney Hotel that cven'ng at nine

o'clock, which I did, but the Emperor not arriving, I

left at between twelve and one, and arrived at Plough-

court about half-past one.
   " The next day I went up to Count Lieven's. Soon

after eleven, one of the servants came into the room,

and said that the Count was at the door in his carriage,
114  EMPEROR OF RUSSIA AND SUITE.  [1814.

and requested me to go to him ; he smiled, made me

get into the carriage, and, driving off immediately,
informed me that the Emperor wished to attend one
of our meetings, and that there was no other time for

it but the present. I replied, then it was quite plain

we must go to the nearest, which was Westminster,

and lose no time, otherwise it might be broken up.
We were soon in the midst of a crowd of carriages

and people, I think at Count Nesselrode's, Curzon
Street, Mayfair. My mind was much exercised for

the honor of the Truth, and my secret petitions were
put up to the alone Source of Divine help. The Count
was dressed in his regimentals, gold epaulettes, stars,

crosses, etc., with a large hat and feathers, sword, etc.

On entering the house I was shown into a parlor on

the left hand, the steps, passage, etc., being lined with

people. I suggested, that to prevent annoyance from

the mob, the Emperor had better go as privately as
possible. The Emperor and Duchess soon came

down, the former in a plain dress. I was introduced

to them, and then gave the coachman directions where
to drive. The Emperor and Duchess, with the two
Dukes, went in one carriage, and Count Lieven took
me in his. The plan was for the Emperor's carriage
to follow us, but in the crowd we lost each other ;

however, we met much about the same time at

Martin's Lane. A number of persons had collected,

but not one of them had gone up the court. The
Emperor alighted, and the Count, taking me by the

arm, made way through the crowd. I went, at a re

spectful distance before the Emperor, and had just
time to beckon out four FYiends who sat near the
1814.]  ATTEND THE FRIENDS* MEETING.  115

door. I Desired them to get behind the Emperor and

keep the crowd back, which they managed exceedingly

well. I showed the Emperor, the two Dukes, and

the Count, to a seat fronting the meeting; the Duchess

preferred the first cross form on the women's side. I

sat opposite the Emperor on the first cross form.

   "The Emperor and the whole party conducted

themselves with great seriousness. The meeting re

mained in silence about a quarter of an hour. Richard

Phillips then stood up with a short but acceptable
address to the meeting, and soon after John Wilkin
son was engaged in explaining the effects of vital
religion, and the nature of true worship, beautifully

applying the text, 'He is their strength and their

shield.' After he sat down, John Bell uttered a few
sentences, and John Wilkinson sweetly concluded in

supplication. I think I may say, Friends were evi

dently owned in this their strait, and that nothing could

have answered better, if it had been ever so well con

trived. After meeting, the Emperor and his compan

ions, with the Grand Duchess also, very kindly shook

hands with the Friends about them, and a passage

being made through the middle of the meeting, I went

before them to the carriage, they continuing to shake

hands with the Friends as they passed. At the car

riage, the Emperor, in French, appointed the 2ist, at

ten o'clock, for Friends to meet him at the Pulteney

Hotel, limiting the deputation to me and the person

who spoke second, which  was  John Wilkinson."
                         the  address ; the Emperor
   " 2ist. --We took up

having been engaged till six o'clock that morning,

was not up when we arrived, and we had to wait
116  INTERESTING INTERVIEW  [1814.

about two hours and a half. At last a message came
for us, and Stephen Grellet, John Wilkinson, and I,

were introduced into an apartment where the Emperor

stood to receive us : he was quite alone, and dressed
in a plain suit of clothes, and, with a look of benignity,

seemed to meet us as friends, rather than as strangers.

I put the Address into his hands, which, as he had

seen the copy, he did not open, and then, on behalf
of the Society, presented him with some books. He
looked into each of them, but appeared desirous of

employing all the time in conversation, which was

carried on partly in English, which he pronounced
very well, and partly in French. His questions were

chiefly in reference to the doctrines and practices
of our Society, and evidently showed that he was

acquainted with the operations of the Holy Spirit in

the soul, and considered forms and external observ

ances but of secondary importance. On the subject
of worship, he said, he agreed entirely with Friends,

that it was an internal and spiritual thing; he said
that he was himself in the habit of daily prayer ; that
at first he employed a form of words, but at length

grew uneasy with them, as not always applicable to
the present state of his mind, and that ncnv the subject

of his prayer was according to the impression he felt
of his wants at the time, and in this exercise he felt

swe"eHt epewaacse. desirous of knowing whether any among

us were set apart for the ministry, and whether we

had any particular form on such occasions, or ap
pointed any to preach at particular times. We stated
the principles of Friends, which drew from the Emperor
1814.]  WITH THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.                    117

many interesting and feeling expressions. He re

marked, that Divine worship consisted not in outward

ceremonies or repetitions of words, which the wicked

and the hypocrite might easily adopt, but in having

the   mind prostrate before  the Lord.   French,  the  Em
   "                         Grellet in
      In conversing with S.

peror feelingly remarked upon the importance of the
trust committed to him -- the many temptations with

which he was surrounded, and the few to whom he

could open his heart upon such subjects, saying that

it would be a profanation of holy things to speak of

them to persons in general. Our dear friend, S.
Grellet, under the pressure of gospel love, addressed

a few sentences to him in French : the Emperor

pressing S. Grellet's hands, with both of his, was much
contrited, and with tears in his eyes, said, ' These,

your words, are a sweet cordial to my soul, they will
long be engraven upon my heart,' -- indeed, several

times during the opportunity, he took one or other of

us by the hand, and to John Wilkinson he expressed
how fully his spirit united with him in prayer, at the

meeting on First-day. He said he desired to have

this opportunity, apprehending that he was one in

sentiment with us, and though, from his peculiar situ

ation, his practice must be different, yet the religion

of Christ being one, and his worship spiritual, he

believed that   in this we might all unite.  acquainted
   " He stated  how the Lord had made him

with spiritual religion, after which he had much sought

it,  and that herein he found strength and consolation;

adding, that he, and all of us, were only placed in this

life to glorify God and be useful to one another, and
118      THE EMPEROR AND DUCHESS  [1814.

that we ought to strive to be prepared for another

life". He expressed how much he was disgusted with

the practice which prevailed in this country, of sitting
several hours after dinner, saying it was a waste of
that time which might be employed for the good of

our fellow-creatures.
   " On S. G. congratulating him with having such a

sister as the Duchess of Oldenburg, who appeared to

be one in religious sentiment with him, he said it was

a great favor --that- they could freely converse together

on such subjects, and profit by each other's experience.

"S. G. having directed his attention to suffering

Africa, the Emperor went into the subject with warmth

of feeling, saying that the Africans were men, and

objects of redeeming love as well as ourselves; and

that when the articles of peace were framing, he had

done all he could for them, and from what passed, it

appeared very plain, that if the cause of Africa were

giv"enI  up in the treaty, it was no fault of the Emperor's.
         then addressed him upon the subject of estab

lishments for training the poorest of the people in

habits of morality and virtue, and in useful knowledge,

and respectfully reminded him that he possessed the

power, in a greater degree than any other person now

Iin existence, for doing incalculable good in this way.
  briefly stated the plans now pursuing in this country,

and the preference claimed by the British and Foreign

School Society, and that it was well calculated to

assist Bible Societies : the Emperor listened with

marked attention, and said, ' It is indeed a subject of

great importance.'
1814.]  VISIT A FRIEND'S HOUSE.  119

   " The interview lasted about an hour, and the Em

peror stood during all that time ; his conduct through
out, though familiar and affectionate, was dignified, and

he said, ' If any of your Friends should visit Petersburg

on a religious account, let them not wait for any intro

duction, but come direct to me, and I will do every

thing to promote your views.' He remarked that he
should never forget this opportunity, and, as we with

Idrew, he took each of us by the hand, and said, '

part from you as from friends and brethren.' "
   The Emperor, when at Portsmouth, expressed an

inclination, to "visit a family of the persuasion of
Friends, and stop for half an hour to have a little
friendly conversation." Lord Sidmouth signified the

Emperor's desire, and arrangements were accordingly

made for John Glaisycr to receive him : but when he
reached Brighton, the crowd was so great, that he
passed on without fulfilling his intention. Mr. Glais-
yer, however, writes to Mr. Allen :

  " I think thou wilt be pleased to learn that the

Emperor was not willing readily to give up his wish
to see a Friend's family. My cousin, Nathaniel Rick-

man, and his wife, were standing at their own gate

last First-day afternoon, to see the Emperor pass ; he,
seeing they had the appearance of Friends, desired the
driver to stop, when he alighted, and asked N. R. if
they were not of the people called Quakers. Being
answered in the affirmative, he requested liberty to go
into the house, which, of course, was most willingly
granted. The Duchess then alighted, and they all

went together ; shortly afterwards the Duchess asked

if they might go over the house, and they were accord
120  THE EMPEROR'S DEPARTURE.  [1814.

ingly conducted into the principal apartments, the
neatness of which they praised. On returning to the
parlor they were invited to take some refreshments,

which they did, and seemed much pleased with the
attention. On finding that the family had not heard
of the Emperor having had any communication with
Friends in London, he gave them an account of his
having been at meeting, and also of the conversation

he had had with some members of the Society, in an

inverview out of meeting. They seemed unwilling to

take leave, but said, two or three times, that they had

to go as far as Dover that night, and they wished to
know whether they should pass any more Friends'
houses on the road ; they said they had intended to
go to one at Brighton, but could not get there for the
crowd; they wished to be remembered to Friends

generally, said it was not likely they should see each
other again, but they hoped they should not be for
gotten. On parting, the Emperor kissed Mary Rick-
man's hand, and the Duchess kissed her; they shook
hands cordially with N. R., saying -- ' Farewell.' They
staid about twenty minutes, and, during their conver
sation, the Emperor spoke in praise of the Friends he
had seen in London, and behaved throughout in the
most free and affable manner possible."

   Who, after reading this touching narrative, is not
ready to exclaim, May all future Emperors of Russia

resemble the good Emperor Alexander, and all the

uneducated poor children in his vast dominions have

as earnest and disinterested a friend to plead on their
behalf as William Allen!
                     CHAPTER VII.

   BRITISH AND FOREIGN SCHOOL SOCIETY DUKE OF

                                 KENT'S AFFAIRS.

   IN order to extricate the British and Foreign School
Society from debt, and place it on a permanent footing,
it was resolved to endeavor to raise ten thousand
pounds, in gifts of one hundred pounds each ; the
subscriptions, as they were paid in, to be vested in the
funds, in the names of trustees, under certain condi
tions, specified in a circular issued by the Committee.

   Those who are in the habit of collecting money of

the rich for any benevolent purpose, well know that
such a plan was much easier to propose than accom
plish. The excuses arising from real inability in
some who dare not explain their circumstances, and
from others who wish to avoid the sacrifice required,
are very disheartening. But men of prayer and
singleness of purpose for promoting the Divine glory,
seldom fail in accomplishing their object. Persons
were not then so much in the habit of giving large
sums as they have been of late years. Many of the
best friends of education predicted failure, while others
who knew the men that had put their shoulders to
the wheel, cheered them on and expected success.

" Fox and I," says Mr. Allen, " think it right to make

every exertion on this account;" and they did make

                                                     (121)
122  BRITISH AND FOREIGN SCHOOL SOCIETY.        [1815.

as great exertions as if their own private advantage

were the reward. When fresh donations were sent in,

Mr. Allen   records them with the triumph of a  victory.
" Our ten  thousand pounds subscription to the   British

and Foreign School Society amounts to about twelve

hundred paid in --eighty -eight hundreds more wanted."
A long distance from the goal, but he thought the

sum a large earnest from heaven of ultimate success.
   In a few months we have another record : " Great

annual meeting of the School Society ; Freemason's
Hall completely filled; the Duke of Sussex in the

chair, supported by Earl Darnley: the whole went

off very well, except that I was pained with the over

strained eulogium pronounced upon myself by Tracy.

The great subscription amounts to three thousand

seven hundred and eighty pounds."

These memorials of increase go on till the close of

the year 1816, when, after two years of labor, he an

nounces in a reply to the Duke of Bedford, who had
sent him a second donation of one hundred pounds

towards the fund :

  " I am now happy to say that the generosity of our

friends has secured the great object: most of the

money is actually paid in, and the remaining four or

five hundred is promised, and will, most likely, come

in during to-morrow and next day.

   " It must be a source of great gratification to thy

liberal mind, to reflect that, in the ordering of Divine

Providence, thou shouldest be the first of the British

nobility to appreciate the value of a plan which is

bestowing so many substantial blessings upon our

country and the world ; to have nursed it in its infancy ;
1815.] FORMS DISTRICT SCHOOL ASSOCIATIONS.    123

to have superintended it in its growth, and finally to

have witnessed its complete success."

in  To awaken attention, and give the public  confidence

     their plans, the Committee determined     " to come

forward boldly," to meet in future at St. Paul's Coffee

House, and that every member of a country Commit

tee, also all ministers, either of the Church of England

or dissenters, provided they were subscribers, should

have the privilege of attending when in town.

  A great difficulty arose first in the Committee of

the Westminster School, respecting the form of ques

tions in the lessons. A happy thought of Mr. Allen

freed this perplexing subject from its difficulties. He

suggested that they should leave out Freame's ques

tions, retaining only the words' of Scripture ; all seemed

pleased with this proposal, which was agreed to, and

they declared that they did not wish one word of the

text to be omitted.

    Mr. Allen and his friends made great efforts to

excite an interest in the poor themselves for the edu

cation of their children, by means of School Associa
tions. " If," he observed, "we succeed in a few dis

tricts of this metropolis, the work will rapidly spread;

and the good effects upon the great mass of the com

munity in promoting morality and virtue among them

will be incalculable,"

    In this new movement the Duke of Kent took the

deepest interest, as will appear by an extract from a

note to Mr. Allen :
   " The idea of establishing School Associations ap

pears to promise the best results, and the Duke hopes

that William Allen will favor him with a very early
          PERSEVERANCE AMIDST DISCOURAGEMENT. [1815.

communication, whenever that destined for the Bor

ough of Southwark is established and set a going; as,
immediately afterwards, it may be right to arrange a
public meeting, in order to follow up the same plan
throughout the metropolis, as an example to the whole
of the United Kingdom ; and if the Duke's services
can be useful on that occasion, he trusts that William
Allen is well persuaded he may command them."

   Those services were freely given. Mr. Allen states :
   "The first meeting of the Southwark Auxiliary
School Society, was held at the Horns, at Kenning-
tcn,-- a very respectable meeting ; the Dukes of Kent
and Sussex were there, and, as usual, behaved nobly.

I had to open and explain the business."
   " Sixth Month 6th. -- Went to the great school meet

ing at Shadwell ; upwards of one thousand persons
were present. The Duke of Kent in the chair."

   Such a good work could not be expected to pro
ceed without opposition from a variety of quartersj
and from some where least deserved and anticipated.
Lancaster rose up as a foe to his dearest friends.
" He published in Edinburgh," writes Mr. Allen, " a
narrative, full of the grossest misrepresentations and

personal abuse of Fox and me, by name. It would

be quite easy, by a plain statement of facts, to put him
down completely; but the enemy would triumph in
his exposure, and we are strongly advised to forbear."

   His friend, Joseph Fox, took a similar view of the
matter, urging him to be full of hope and joy, and
showing a courage and affection of the most endearing
character. How beautiful is the following extract
1815.]  PREPARING SCHOOL REPORT.

from a letter written by him to Mr. Allen, in this time
of trouble:

   " If we have been permitted to have our faith and

patience tried in various ways during the progress of

the great work in which we have been engaged, we

cannot say our labor has been in vain ; let us cheer

each other, --we shall reap if we faint not. In the

whole of the struggle, my mind has been supported
by a consciousness of the close fellowship of heart

which was ever to be found in you, and I hope, tliat

so long as we are spared in this present sphere of

action, we shall be like Jonathan and David."
   Another source of anxiety sprang from a skeptical

spirit getting into the Committee of one of their chief

Associations.

   " ijth. -- Intensely engaged in preparing the school
report, F. Martin assisting me. We then went to the
great school meeting at the old London Tavern ; Duke
of Kent in the chair. Dr. Collyer read the report

Iexcellently well ; the room was crowded ; my spirits

were much depressed, and only said a few words on
the general statement of accounts. The infidel spirit
began to develop its plans, as manifested in one of the

speeches; there is an effort to erect the Westminster
society into a counterplot, to get rid of the Bible alto
gether. Thus a new era is forming in this arduous

work. May the Lord strengthen the hands of his

poor feeble servants !"

   It appears that bigotry assisted infidelity in attempt

ing to wither the plant which now began everywhere
to spring up. Among the instruments God provided
for carrying on this work was a pious young French-
126  FRENCH OPPOSITION TO SCHOOLS.  [1815.

man, named Martin, now minister of the French

Church, St. Martin's-le Grand, who made himself
master of the system, and diffused it widely in France.
By assistance from the government, several schools

were established in Paris and other cities of the em
pire during the reign of Napoleon ; but when the

Bourbons resumed the government, persecution was

levelled against Martin and his system on account of

his religion ; that is, he was a Protestant, and Catho

lics would not endure that the education of youth

should be taken out of their hands. If the opposition

had been confined to Catholics it would have created

no surprise. Romanism, as a system, always was,

and ever will be, a hater of education. Who, however,

would expect, in a Protestant periodical, to find such

a sentiment as that on which Mr. Allen so justly
ani"mWadeverhtasve:--still encouraging accounts from Paris,
but in the last number of the Christian Observer there

is an insidious paragraph, calculated to stir up a host
of enemies against Martin in his own country.
Whilst he is earnestly entreating that we should never

mention in print that he is a Protestant, the Christian

Observer says, ' It is not to be wondered at if the

French are uneasy at seeing a Protestant clergyman

at the head of their schools. What should we think,'
it continues, ' if a Catholic clergyman was at the head
of our National Schools?"

   The reader will at once perceive that the cases are
not parallel. Martin went, not to be at the head of
the National School of France, but, by the assistance
of the government, to introduce a better system of
1815.]  LETTER TO F. MARTIN.                           127

education where very little existed before ; and surely

at this every Protestant should have rejoiced. But

what reason can satisfy bigotry ? It is quite refresh

ing to turn to the affectionate effusions of William
Allen towards this sufferer for Christ :--

        " MY DEAR FRIEND FRANCIS MARTIN,

" Thy zeal in this blessed work, which I indeed

believe is the Lord's, and thy attributing all that has
been done to His gracious assistance, have endeared

Ithce to me in a particular manner. Though conscious

of many imperfections in myself, trust I have this
one mark of discipleship, that I love those who, as I

believe, love the Lord Jesus, however they may differ

from me in some matters of opinion. I sympathize

with thee, my dear friend, in thy very arduous labors,

and in thy critical situation ; but as thou endeavorest
to keep a single eye to the glory of God, and the good
of His creatures, with fervent prayers for the influence
of His Divine Spirit, strength will be afforded com

mensurate with the trials of the day. He is omnipo

tent, and will carry on his own work in his own way.

Let us then cast all our care upon Him, avoiding, as

much as possible, all anxiety about the event, but

taking especial care that we do not retard the business

by any imprudence."

   Notwithstanding these and other impediments, the
cause of education went on gloriously. Neither
labor nor expense were spared by Mr. Allen and

those who labored with him. Defective as the educa

tion of our poor still  is,
                                                   is
                        the country indebted to

such spirits as these for uprooting old prejudices
128        DISAPPOINTED HOPES.                [1815.

against educating the peasantry, and making it fash

ionable to help it forward by money and labor.
   During this year Mr. Allen undertook a little work

which greatly facilitated the formation and conducting

of schools. He collected the materials for " A Manual

of the British System of Education," which was to

contain such an accurate description of all the minutiae
of the school discipline, that those who had never

seen a British School might be able to comprehend

the whole business, and even to organize a school by

it. There is no doubt it greatly contributed to spread

the plan.

The prospect of a meeting to be held at Bristol, for

the purpose of forming an auxiliary to the British and

Foreign School Society, decided the course of Mr.
                                              "Fox,"
Allen's excursion   in the summer of   1815.
he observes, " has                            Thomas
                    made arrangements   with

Richardson, and Sir James Mackintosh has engaged

to attend the meeting ; it seems as if he would drag
me there with him, much as I dislike public exposure,
for I see that unless we exert ourselves strenuously,

the business will not be done." Finding, on their ar

rival, that Wilberforce was at J. S. Harford's, he and
Joseph Fox went over to invite him to attend the

meeting ; they had nearly secured his services, when
on retiring to consult his friends, the scale was turned

against them, and he excused himself from yielding to

their solicitations. Denied by one who ought not to
have deserted his friends in the hour of their need,

and hearing that it was likely Sir J. Mackintosh would

not appear, the two dear men had no resource but a
1815.]         GOD, HIS REFUGE IN TROUBLE.      129

throne of grace, for help suited to their time of
special need. How beautiful is the following record:

  " Engaged in supplication before I rose this morn

ing, that the Lord would strengthen and support us
this day. Joseph Fox, Dr. Schwabe and I, had a

conference about what ground we should take, and

then walked with a heavy heart to the Guildhall,

where Edward Protheroe, M.P., took the chair. The

attendance was numerous and respectable, and several

excellent speeches were made. Mackintosh and

Wilberforce had both failed us, but dear Fox and I

endeavored to put our trust in the Divine arm, and

were mercifully and signally helped, as we humbly
hope. We were favored to get through our part very

satisfactorily : the first Auxiliary Society was formed,

and the cause triumphed. The Almighty often ac

complishes His purposes by feeble instruments.  May
                           "
He  alone  be  glorified
                          !

Mr. Wilberforce was not satisfied that he had done

right in yielding to prejudice, and a few days after
wards, in a letter to Mr. Allen, very feelingly alludes

to the circumstance :--

  " I cannot lay down my pen without assuring you

that, from various causes, among which giving pain to

two persons whom I respect and value was one, our

last interview at Frenchay was long a subject of deep
concern to me. Mr. Fox would probably tell you

that we crossed each other on Clifton Down, and it

Iwas because I felt so much that did not stop to hold

a parley."

   Mr. Allen and his family spent some weeks at Clif

ton, where the varied beauties of the surrounding
130  VISITS COCK KOAD.  [1815.

scenery often proved a pleasing source of interest and
enjoyment. He describes them in language which
proves that he had taste to relish beauty, had he
chosen to confine his attention to her charms. " Tin-
tern Abbey," he remarks, "is the most beautiful

specimen of gothic architecture I have seen. From

the summit of Wind Cliff, about 428 feet, is a most
charmingand extensive view : beneath us the river in all
its sinuosities. In the early part of the walk, the town
of Chepstow, with its spacious castle rising abruptly
from the side of the river, attracts attention," etc.

But all these attractions for the eye, and the relaxation
which heavy duties such as this required, were made
subservient to the conviction that a moral paradise
would impart to men greater power to relish a natural
one, and therefore the object of his drives was, in

many instances, to' mark out the most necessitous

localities for schools.
   " We went to that noted haunt of depredators,

called Cock Road, Kingswood, which does not con

sist, as I had supposed, of continued streets, but of

little huts or hovels scattered over a considerable ex

tent, the paths to them between hedges intersecting

each other like a labyrinth ; frequently four or five of

these paths meet, and hence pursuit is rendered very
difficult. The leader of the gang, Tom Cain, is now
in gaol, where he is to remain for eighteen months

longer; we saw his house, which is a depository for

stolen goods; it is said that as many as thirteen carts
have come there in a night. In the midst of this nest
a house is erected for a First-day school, with an ex
cellent room, sixty feet by forty, capable of containing
1815.]  SCHOOL FOR FRIENDS' ciriLDRtN.  131

two hundred and eighty children ; it is said that even

Tom Cain subscribed to it. It is truly a pity that

there is not some exertion made to have a day school.
In this place also are schools for adults, and we were
much pleased in seeing one or two of them. The
teachers voluntarily attend at all seasons and in all

weathers, many of them from Bristol ; I believe they

are principally Methodists ; their pious zeal docs them
great credit."

   Among his visits was one to the boarding-school at
Sidtot, for the children of Friends. His graphic
description of it shows how well the children of Qua
kers are trained, and the habits of industry and clean
liness engrafted in their minds. In this institution

there were thirty-nine boys and thirty-nine girls.
   " Robert and Lydia Gregory superintended it gratui

tously, and seem remarkably well qualified for the

work. I was particularly delighted, not only with

the system of order and neatness which pervades the
whole, but especially with that part of the plan which
initiates the children into habits of industry ; most of
the household work is done by them, only one servant
being kept. The girls assist in the kitchen, and in

washing, ironing, waiting at dinner, cleaning rooms,
etc. The boys also have their distinct duties as
waiters, sweepers of the school and bedrooms, furni
ture rubbers, etc. In one of the rooms the following

card was hung up :

   " ' It is requested that the following instructions be
particularly observed by the children --: ·

  "'To do every thing in its proper time; to keep

every thing to its proper use ; and to put every thing
132  SOCIETY FOR REFORMATION.  [1815.

in its proper place ; also that each fire may consume
its own cinders.

   " The superintendent has a workshop, which, besides

a turning-lathe and carpenter's tools, contains a forge.
With the assistance of the boys, he completely built
a shed, and tiled it. The boys are also employed in

the garden and on the land; in fact, I was strongly

reminded of Fellenberg's system."

   During the year 1815 he paid much attention to the
formation of a society for the reformation of youth
ful depredators, from nine to twelve years of age, who

infested the metropolis. They were estimated at 700.
Some had been recently capitally convicted at the Old
Bailey, and received sentence of death. Under the

conviction that prevention is better than cure, he
visited Cold Bath Fields Prison, conversed with the

young thieves, took down their cases, and came home

exulting, " If but a few of these poor children can be

saved, it will be worth the effort."
   Shortly afterwards he states :--" Our society for

collecting information on the subject of the youthful

depredators who infest this metropolis is proceeding
vigorously. We have a very large Committee, which

is subdivided into small Committees for the different

prisons ; they are furnished with heads of inquiry,

printed with blanks to be filled up ; these are brought
into the General Committee, and serve as the founda

tion for the register, from which the cases are posted
into a very large ledger, with an alphabetical index.

Lord Sidmouth is much interested in the business,
and wishes me to bring the account of the cases to

him when they are written up."
1815.]  FOUNDS SAVINGS' BANKS.             133

   The subject of establishing a safe depository for the
savings of the laboring class, was amongst those ben
evolent plans which had long claimed the attentive
consideration of Mr. Allen. In order to steer clear
of the defects of theory on so important a subject as
employing the money of the poor for their use, he
solicited and gained important suggestions, which
were the result of experience, from those who, in
their several localities, had, on a small scale, thus as

sisted the poor.

   His house at Plough-court was the place which had
the high honor, on the 2Oth of January, 1816, of en

tertaining the first company to carry the noble plan

into operation, which its proprietor had originated.
   " Charles Barclay, Charles Dudley, and Robert

Stevens, met at Plough-court, on the subject of

savings' banks for the poor ; and we laid the first stone

of the building."

   On the 26th we find Mr. Allen prosecuting his new

enterprise in the proper quarter. " I went with C.

Dudley and R. Stevens to the Chancellor of the Ex

chequer, on the business of savings' banks for the

poor;" and on the    8th   of April  the   Committee came
into working order.                   the   first meeting on
                        "  Attended

the London Savings' Banks, at the Merchant Seamen's

Office, Sir James Shaw in the chair." The little seed

thus planted, he lived to see spread into a great tree,

yielding pleasant fruit annually to thousands of de

positors.

   Yet his varied benevolent engagements did not pre
vent his scientific pursuits. For some time he had
been occasionally occupied in preparing tables of the
134  ASTRONOMICAL STUDIES.  [1815.

right ascension and declination of the stars from the
first to the fourth magnitude, with the places of some
of the most interesting double stars. They were ar

ranged for his own amusement ; but as they seemed

likely to prove useful to persons possessing a circular
or transit instrument, he was induced to publish them.

In this little work, entitkd " A Companion to the

Transit Instrument," the variations in right ascension
and declination are given to the end of 1814. His
fondness for the study of astronomy rendered his ob
servatory a great source of gratification to him, and
there, at the close of many a weary day, were his

toils forgotten.
   Nor did cither labors for others, or scientific recrea

tions, weaken the energy with which he cleaved to
eternal realities. His tendency to depression was one
of the means which God graciously employed to pre
serve him amidst so much flattery and honor, humble
as a child, and pursuing eternal things as his best in

heritance. A few extracts from his diary, scattered

over more than twelve months of memoranda, will

show his spiritual tendencies and enjoyments.

   " First Month i$th. -- More zeal is wanting to keep

my mind in a disposition to watch for opportunities to
promote the spiritual welfare of others. Entangled as

I am with external objects, it requires a continual

effort to abstract the mind from them, so that they
shall not wean it from a sense of the Divine

presence.

   " I have begun a little tract on worship, and feel a

degree of satisfaction in this part of the allotment of

my time."
1815.]  PIOUS EXTRACTS.                   13")

" ioth. -- Faint yet pursuing. O, that I may be

safely directed and mercifully preserved in the road

towards a better country ! One ray from this region
of light is more consolatory that the concentrated
beams of the world's sunshine."

  " jist.--My spirits are much depressed on various

accounts. The Lord only knows what trials and
exercises will conduce to our preservation and refine
ment. May He be graciously pleased to purify my
heart, and make me an instrument in His holy hand
for the good of others."

   " Struggling on with my weights and burdens ; got
rid of one for the present, last Third-day evening,

when I gave the concluding lecture of the course on

Experimental Philosophy. Endeavored to direct the
minds of the pupils to Him, whose almighty power
produced and supports the system of the universe."

   " At a meeting of the vestry on the Fifth-day, my

neighbors kindly concluded to excuse me from the
office of churchwarden, on the grounds of my con

scientious scruples, for which I returned them my

grateful acknowledgments."

   Among the causes of depression, was an attempt on
the part of Mr. Owen, of Lanark, to introduce opinions

and practices among the work-people, favorable to his

infidel propensities, and contrary to the original agree

ment. In the latter part of 1815, Mr. Allen wrote to

him the following remonstrance, which, for its spirit

and piety, deserves a permanent record :

      " MY DEAR FRIEND :

"Thy kind letter of the 1oth served to increase the
136  LETTER TO OWEN OF LANARK.  [1815.

Idesire had felt to write to thee ; but the depression

of spirits I have long and increasingly suffered, on

account of my connection with an establishment which,

at one time, presented the most animating prospects
of extensive good to mankind, has rendered it very

difficult to me to correspond upon the subject. I felt,

and still feel, the most sincere attachment to my friend

Robert Owen, on account of the kindness of his dis

position, and the benevolence and strong good sense
which mark his general plans for the amelioration of

the condition of the laboring classes of society. I

fondly hoped that one establishment might be found
in which it should be proved, that it was possible to
provide for the comfort, for the morals, and the hap
piness of a poor population, without injury to the
pecuniary interests of the employers, and that New
Lanark might be held up as an example to the world.

What pleasure did I not anticipate in giving my

humble co-operation to such a work ! and with what

zeal did I endeavor to bring others to assist, who may

now consider me as having been made a dupe to

designs which my heart could never approve. It is

now the general opinion, that my friend is the deter
mined enemy of all revealed religion, and that he is
anxious for nothing so much as to prove, in the
instance of such an establishment as Lanark, that the

world has been grossly abused down to the present

time, in being required to believe that the Divine
Being had at any time, through the influence of His

Holy Spirit, communicated His will and purposes to
any of His rational creatures ; that the Scriptures were
mere idle tales, and one of the causes of the miseries
1815.]  LETTER TO OWEN OF LANARK.                      137

which exist in the world. Now, if this opinion of the

public be correct, we have, indeed, reason for bitter

complaint. We came into the concern, not to form a

manufactory of infidels, but to support a benevolent

character in plans of a very different nature, in which

the happiness of millions, and the cause of morality

and virtue, are deeply concerned."

After remonstrating with him on the folly and

wickedness of his infidelity, and the objects for which

he and his friends had entered into the concern, he

adds:
   " But though nearly two years have since elapsed,

we have not specific and satisfactory information as to

the progress made in many of them, and are very

much at a loss to reply to the queries put to us by

those who have heard of what was intended to be

done at Lanark. The eyes of the public are upon us,

many for evil and some for good ; we wished to have

some particulars respecting the population and the

progress made in realizing the above objects, but have

on"lyI  received a list of the  members.         this  letter
          must confess that
                                 I have written

under much depression of mind, principally from the

cause expressed in the beginning of and also from
II
                        ;

             I
                        II

                                                           it,

                                                                                                                                      ;
considering how deeply am implicated in responsi

bility for this concern. Do write to me, not in vague

terms, but definitely as to thy views and prospects

that may fully make up my mind as to my future

proceeding and whatever may ultimately determine

upon,   hope  shall always be able tc subscribe

myself        "Thy affectionate Friend,

                                "WILLIAM ALLEN."
138  SINGULAR TRIALS IN THE  [1816.

   The affairs of the Duke of Kent, by a singular
repetition of untoward and afflictive circumstances,
became embarrassed. In the Duke's honorable mind,

the claims of creditors rendered some arrangement
towards a settlement imperative, and he consulted Mr.
Allen on the best means to be adopted. To under
stand both the Duke's position and that of Mr. Allen
in this painful business, it will be necessary to give a
short detail of the circumstances.

   In his eighteenth year the Duke was sent to Lune-

berg to prosecute his military studies under Baron

Wangenheim, whom he regarded and described as "a

mercenary tyrant," bent on appropriating to himself
every shilling he could squeeze out of the £1000 per

annum given by the King for the Prince's use. One

guinea and a-half per week, sometimes melted down

by military forfeits to twenty-two shillings, was all
that found its way into the pocket of the Prince for
his personal expenses of every kind.

   By the command of his Majesty the Prince was sent

to Geneva, and the sum paid to the Baron to maintain

his royal pupil's establishment was now .£6000 per
annum ; yet the pocket-money to the Prince was not
increased. The results were such as might be ex
pected. From not having any of those indulgences
allowed him, which other young Englishmen of his

own age, with whom he was living, enjoyed, and who
were the sons of private gentlemen, the Duke incurred

debts by borrowing money to procure them.
   On attaining his majority, he determined to visit

England, and lay his youthful trials and sacrifices
before his father, expecting that an appeal to such a
1816.]  EARLY LIFE OF THE DUKE OF KENT.  139

source would rid him of further annoyance, and extri
cate him from his pecuniary difficulties. His majesty's
displeasure was extreme. Though the brothers of the
Prince urged every argument in his favor which justice
and affection could dictate, the King allowed the
Prince a sojourn of only ten days ; at the short notice
of twenty-four hours he received orders to embark
for Gibraltar; and on the night of his departure was
admitted to the King's presence for five minutes only
to say farewell. He had no opportunity of laying
open those embarrassments which had brought him
to England, or of entreating the King to grant him
the necessary outfit for his new station. And this

noble-minded young Prince was obliged to leave his
native shores with the inconsiderable sum of .£500,

which had been advanced to Captain Crawford.
   After only fifteen months' residence at Gibraltar,

he was ordered to embark with his regiment for

America. As no regular allowance had been assigned

him, he naturally calculated that it would at least
equal that which Baron Wangenheim had had with
him as a pupil. But he learned that it had been un
alterably fixed at ^5000. The debts incurred by his
outfit, the claims incident to royalty, and to a natu
rally benevolent heart, had greatly increased. He

was therefore obliged to sell his equipment at Gibraltar

at great loss to pay his debts there, and to purchase

on credit a fresh equipment in Canada.

   To satisfy his creditors he gave them bonds amount
ing to .£20,000, payable at the expiration of seven

years ; believing that as his brothers had had a par

liamentary allowance much earlier in life, he might
140  THE DUKE'S LOSSES.  [1816.

fairly expect one soon. This contract was fulfilled

punctually, though the interest alone swallowed up
one-fifth of his income.

    Reverses, however, seemed everywhere to accom
pany him, and one loss to be only preliminary to
another. When, in December, 1793, he was appointed
to the expedition engaged in the reduction of the
French West India islands, he was obliged to dispose
of his existing equipment, because too heavy for
marching order. He bought a lighter, and this was

lost in crossing Lake Champlain. In 1794 the Prince
was commanded to return to North America with a

staff appointment, and he ordered a fourth equipment
from England to supply the place of that lost in Lake
Champlain. This cost £2000, and was sent out in
the Antelope, which was captured by a squadron of
French frigates, and the outfit became the spoil of the

captors. A fifth was indispensable, and shipped in

1795 on board the Tankei~ville. This vessel was also
captured by the enemy, and another loss of .£2000 was
sustained. Being raised to the grade of Lieutenant-
General, and made Commander of the Forces at Hali

fax, his elevation in rank induced the Prince to order

from England a sixth equipment, which, being shipped

on board the Recovery transport, fell also into the
hands of the enemy. Thus, in not more than seven

years, a sum amounting to ^"10,000 was lost in equip

ments alone.

    But being raised, May, 1799, to the rank of General
in the Army, and appointed Commander-in-Chief of
the Forces in British North America, he ventured

upon ordering from England a seventh equipment,
1816.] APPOINTED GOVERNOR OF GIBRALTAR.  141

more costly than any of its predecessors, amounting
in value to ,£11,000. The vessel was wrecked on

Table Island ; every soul on board perished, and the

ocean swallowed her and her whole cargo.
   The extraordinary combination of adverse circum

stances in so few years in the military life of one
individual is probably without parallel. The conse
quence was that his Royal Highness quitted North

America far more seriously embarrassed than when

he entered it.

   When he had reached his thirty-second year, his
first parliamentary income of ,£12,000 per annum was
granted. His brother, the Duke of Cumberland,
though four years younger, received his grant of a
similar amount the same day. Prince William Henry
was created Duke of Clarence in his twenty-fourth
year, but Prince Edward had to wait to the verge of

his thirty-third year before he was raised to the dignity
of the Duke of Kent. Why such distinction should

be made among the King's sons can be accounted for
only from the fact that the Duke of Kent was prover
bially free from princely vices. His political views
were in advance of those maintained by his family.
He was known to be a lover of constitutional liberty,
an advocate for unrestricted education, a good public
speaker, active and orderly in all his arrangements,
and of great independence of character --all of which
would make ministers who were hostile to his views
reluctant to place him in the House of Lords.

   The same year he was appointed Governor of Gib
raltar. On his arrival he found the whole garrison in
a state of insubordination. Drunkenness abounded,
142 THE DUKE RECALLED FROM GIBRALTAR. [1816.

and vice of every kind followed in its train. He
instantly and resolutely set about a reformation by
withdrawing the licenses from a number of wine-
houses, though his own revenue was derived from

granting them. A deep-laid scheme of mutiny, pro

moted by those in command, was laid, and the Duke's
life was saved only by a special providence. But the
Duke's energy prevailed. Order was restored, drunk
enness was diminished, punishments became infrequent

and the deaths by drinking astonishingly less. All,
however, was of no avail ; misrepresentations of the

circumstances were sent to the authorities, and he was
recalled. The Duke returned to England to plead his
own cause, but remonstrances, facts, and evidence
were unheeded. The decision was final that he should
cease from command at Gibraltar.

   The King had repeatedly promised to refund his
early losses. Mr. Pitt had also assured him that he

would bring his case before Parliament; but the former
never fulfilled his promise, and the latter died when
his services were most required.

   Mr. Hume brought the subject forward in the House
of Commons, but the ministry of the day differed
from him in politics, and his claims on f.he country

received a negative.

   From this time he devoted himself, with his royal
brother, the Duke of Sussex, to useful and benevolent
objects, especially to those of universal education.*

   * The above particulars are gleaned from a statement pub
lished at the time by the authority of the Prince, and from an
interesting life of his Royal Highness recently given to the
world by the Rev. Henry Neale, M. A.
1816.] ALLEN BECOMES TRUSTEE TO THE DUKE. 143

Frequent interviews with Mr. Allen on this subject
led the Duke to a very high appreciation of his char

acter and business habits, and he consulted him on

the state of his affairs, and the best mode of probable
extrication. After due consideration, Mr. A. told the

Duke that he saw no escape but that of reducing his
expenditure and placing his income in the hands of

trustees, who would grant him a certain allowance

and gradually pay his debts with the remainder. In

this proposition the noble-minded prince acquiesced,
provided Mr. Allen would be one of the trustees. He

at first excused himself on account of his multiplied

engagements, but when the Duke repeated the request

he assented, and labored most assiduously and faith

fully on his behalf. At the close of one laborious day,

"whIefneesl ompeeacime pinortthainst  steps had been taken, he remarks,

                                      affair, and, if my feelings do not

deceive me, this exertion to help him is right."
   The Duke of Kent's grateful sense of his services

was from time to time acknowledged in very feeling

and gratifying terms.
                    CHAPTER VIII.

VISIT TO PYRMONT, AND DEATH OF HIS SECOND WIFE.

    PREVIOUS details of Mr. Allen's educational efforts
have shown, that to no single individual was he so much
indebted for persevering and enthusiastic assistance as
to Joseph Fox. But in the very prime of life, and in the
might of his usefulness, he was called to abide with the
Saviour whom he had so faithfully served. This was a
severe stroke to Mr. Allen, and is commented on by
him in strains of affectionate lamentation.

   " Fourth Month ioth, 1816. -- Received a great shock
on hearing of the sudden removal from this scene of
trial and conflict of my dear and intimate friend, Joseph
Fox, at the age of forty. He was my invaluable and
disinterested fellow-laborer in the cause of the educa

tion of the poor. I have the strongest assurance that

the change is to him unspeakably glorious. The day
before his decease he said that his work was now over,

and that he was completely resigned to the Divine
will -- that he had a most comfortable assurance that,
through the dear Redeemer, he should be received

into the heavenly mansion, --that he felt great con
solation in a review of his arduous labors for the best
interests of the poor --that, on his own account he had

no wish to live, -- and that he was thankful in seeing
the great work in a fair way to be established. This

                                                     (144)
1816.]            DEATH OF JOSEPH FOX.      145

is a loss which I shall long feel. We were closely

united on the great foundation of revealed religion, as

well as in school concerns ; in all our difficulties, we

used to comfort and strengthen one another in the firm

belief that the work was the Lord's. Very precious
                                         "
hast  thou  been  to  me,  my  brother
                                        !

On the 1 8th, Mr. Brougham, Mr. Allen, and about

twenty-five of the School Committee, fell in with the

funeral procession, and accompanied it to the Baptist

Meeting-house, Long-lane, Southwark, to pay the last

tribute of affectionate regard to the memory of their

dear friend.

   Several persons distinguished for their benevolence
and public usefulness, expressed by letter to Mr. Allen

their deep regret at the loss which the community had
sustained. Amongst other manifestations of sym
pathy with the sorrow of his surviving friend, the
Duke of Kent addressed him a letter of condolence,
in which he says, he had " felt the loss of that excel

lent man most deeply, whether considered as a private
friend, or a public philanthropist."

   In May, Mr. Brougham obtained the appointment
of a Committee by the House of Commons on the
subject of the education of the poor ; and Mr. Allen

was summoned to give evidence as to the nature and

progress of the plan of the British and Foreign School
Society. This occupied much valuable time, but his
experience enabled him to give better information than
perhaps any other man. " My examination on the
subject of the poor by the Commitee of the House of
Commons has occupied much of three days ; " yet it

was cheerfully given for such a noble object.
146  MR. ALLEN AT GHENT.  [181G.

   At the yearly meeting in June, two female Friends

expressed a " religious concern to visit Friends in
Pyrmont and Minden, and also in the South of France."
The judgment of the assembly selected Mr. Allen to

accompany them, and appointed him to the office, to

which he yielded as a religious duty.
   During the interval of a month he was intensely

engaged in attending Committees of his favorite
societies, and that on the Duke of Kent's affairs, and

preparing for the voyage. Lord Sidmouth gave him

an introductory letter to his brother Addington at

Berne, and Vansittart a note to Baron Fagel, the am

bassador from the Netherlands, who furnished the
passport and three letters of introduction. On the 2d

of July, he, with his wife, their nephew, Cornelius
Hanbury, Francis Martin, and the two Friends, of whom

he was to be the " care taker," set sail on board the

Lady Castleraigh for Calais. They proceeded through
Belgium, stopping at some of the chief towns, and in

specting their principal institutions.
   By the Governor's direction they were conducted

through the large prison at Ghent, called the Maison
de Force. The criminals were employed at various

trades, each in a separate, commodious cell, being
allowed to associate and converse with none but the
persons who had the oversight of them. The provisions
of the penal code, (under which none were punished
with death, excepting for wilful murder,) and the en
tire management of the convicts, were found to be so
much in advance of those of his own country, that

Mr. Allen observes :--

   "When I contrasted this enlightened system, which
1816.]  VISITS ROTTERDAM.                               147

has so long flourished here, and produced such excel    it,

lent effects, with the savage code of my own country,         a
and the horrid management of our own prisons, my
mind was agitated with conflicting sentiments of de

light and indignation."

   At Antwerp Mr. Allen met with some excellent

persons who were accustomed to meet together to
worship God, in a manner more in accordance with

spiritual Christianity than the professors around them ;

he describes them as -- " A very little flock, in the

midst of a bigoted and benighted people ; they spoke
of experiencing great peace and consolation in the

interior life, through which they had sweet communion
with the Lord." Here he was introduced to Baron

Scheremberg, Membre de la Commission Gdn^rale de

Bienfaisance et des Hospices du Royame des Pays
Bas, and to the Governor. He explained to him the

British system, and offered, if he would adopt to

instruct some lads at the London Institution to in

troduce the system into his country.
   The travellers proceeded to Breda, through Dor-

trecht to Rotterdam, where, at the house of the wealthy
T. Ledeboer, they had a religious meeting with some
pious persons, and another at the Orphan House, where
260 were present, who seemed blessed and affected
with the addresses of the Friends.

   They arrived at the Hague on the I4th, and had an

interview with Count de Hogendorp, with whom they
conversed on the schools, both of Holland and Batavia,
and on the efforts now making for the civilization of

Africa. The Count appeared much pleased with
mutual intercourse of good offices between Sierra
148  VISITS THE MORAVIAN SETTLEMENT.  [1816.

Leone and Delmina, and expressed his intention to
have schools established at the latter place. After

taking leave of the Count, they set out in search of
M. Repaleur, Directeur des Cultes, who received them

very kindly.
   " On opening a letter from Baron Fagel," says Mr.

Allen, " introducing me to him, I found that it con

tained a letter, Which my kind friend, N. Vansittart,
had written with his own hand, informing Repaleur that
my object in travelling was to visit institutions of public
utility, and to see pious persons in different countries,

recommending me to his kind notice and attention.
This very friendly conduct of the Chancellor of the

Exchequer I shall long remember. I presented to

the Minister, Repaleur, some Bible Society papers,
and African Institution reports; he gave a general in
troduction, and put us under the care of his nephew
Van der Dussen, who took us to the schools, and

afterwards to the workhouse, where we were joined

by the General Director of all the Poor-houses,

Slingerland, a very interesting and sensible man, who

interpreted for them in their religious addresses."
    Passing through Leyden and Haarlem to Amster

 dam, they visited the Rasphouse -- a prison in which
 convicts are employed in rasping logwood and other
 timbers for dyes -- the workhouse, the country hospital,

 the schools, and the foundling hospital.
    From Amsterdam they went to Utrecht ; went over

 the prisons, and the hospital for the insane, and then
 visited the Moravian settlement at Zeist. After leaving

 Zeist, they passed through a very poor country. '' I

 always considered this," observes Mr. Allen, " as the
1816.]  ARRIVES AT MINDEN.  149

wilderness part of our journey, a sort of Terra Incog
nita; the change for the worse in the appearance of
the people and their habitations, is very striking. We
see crosses, and all manner of popish trumpery, so

that ignorance, dirt, misery, and superstition, seem

to be naturally connected. A great many figures in

bas-relief, representing some circumstances in the life
of our Saviour, and miserable daubs of painting, one

of them intended to represent the ascension of the
Virgin in full-bottomed petticoats of flaring red, going
up, with monks under her in the act of adoration."

   On the 3 1st of July they arrived at Minden, where

they spent some days, visiting all the Friends who
were united with them in religious profession. They
also paid similar visits at Eidenhausen, where a boy's
school for the children of Friends, kept by a person
who had joined their society, greatly interested them;

they had a religious opportunity with the scholars, at
which all the Friends were present.

    On their way to Pyrmont, they passed through
Hameln, a town belonging to the kingdom of Hanover,

which had been, until recently, a strongly fortified

place; but during the late war, after a dreadful siege,

was taken and destroyed by the French, who were a
whole year in demolishing the fortifications. The
people of Hameln were obliged to assist; which many
of them did not regret, as they had been the means of
attracting so many hostile armies to the spot, by which

they had suffered greatly.
    On the 6th of August they reached Pyrmont, and

continued there until the I5th, during which time they
were frequently engaged in religious opportunities with
150  MR. ALLEN A PEACE-MAKER.  [1816.

those who profess the principles of Friends in and
near that place, both on the usual meetings in the week

and on the Sabbath days, to which many who were not
members of their Society frequently came. From
some apparently trifling causes, the harmony of the
little company of Friends there had been much dis
turbed, and Mr. Allen believed it right to have a
private interview with the individuals concerned, in

company with Francis Martin, as interpreter. How
well adapted he was to be a peace-maker, the following
interesting description of the interview will show :--

   " On meeting them, I was under much concern of

mind, being thus alone, with so weighty a work on my

hands ; but my secret petitions were fervent that I
might be favored with Divine help, and that if I could
do no good, I might, at least, be prevented from doing
any harm. After a little time of silence, I addressed
them under a feeling of love and sweetness that I

have not often experienced, and had humbly to believe

that my request was granted. I desired that they

would state what it was that had grieved any of them,
with respect to the conduct of a brother or a sister;

some free communications passed, with explanations
that tended to their reconciliation ; the cause of offence

seemed chiefly to rest with two individuals. After a

pause I addressed these persons, reminding them that

they were both much advanced in years, and in the

<x;:nmon course of nature verging towards that state,

m. which it would be felt extremely desirable to them to
be rid of this burden. They then embraced each
other, and most present burst into tears ; it was indeed

a heart-touching Iscene, and, believe, deeply felt by
1816].             VISITS HEIDELBERG.               151

every one as a memorable time; all present parted

with appearance of much love and tenderness."

   On the 1 5th they quitted Pyrmont, and, by short
stages, proceeded to Carlshaven ; here some of the

company separated, and returned to Pyrmont ; Mr. A.

and his wife, accompanied by F. Martin, proceeded
slowly to Cassel, Freidburg, and Frankfort. At the

latter place they inspected the Prison, Lunatic Asylum,

Hospitals, Mlinster Schools, and the Orphan House,

and visited Gericht Von Meyer, Pastor Passavant, and

M. Wild. With all these persons they had of course

long conversations on education, and on the dis

tribution of the Scriptures, and at the house of the

latter held many religious meetings. From Frankfort

they   proceeded   through         Darmstadt to Heidelberg,
which               describes       as a " beautiful city, and a
        Mr. Allen

very interesting place." At Bruchsall, throngs of

people were assembled at the great fair; almost all

kinds of articles were exhibited for sale ; amongst the

rest were tracts   in  the  true papistical style. One was
                  by   the  Angel Raphael," another, "Sent
entitled, " Sent

by the Mother of God."
   " The countenances of the people," Mr. A. observes,

" showed great want of intelligence ; the women are

generally employed in reaping and field labor; they

wear enormously large straw bonnets ; the men wear

three-cornered hats, equally large in proportion."

      rom  is  Strasburg, after    inspecting the cathedral,
which "         very magnificent,  between four and five hun

dred feet in height, and the splendid marble monument

to the honor of Marshal Saxe," they proceeded

to Basle, and made acquaintance with several active
152 INTERVIEW WITH BARONESS KRUDENER. [1816.

and intelligent friends of education and religion.
Among others the Baroness Krudener, whom Mr.

Allen thus describes :--
   "The Baroness has a temporary residence in a

poor little house. We found her taking coffee, in
a small room, with a bed in it. There were present
three men and three women, besides our party ; one
an interesting looking man, a Councillor of State,
with his wife ; another a young man of very agreeable
manners, who wore a black cross suspended from his

neck; and the third, an older man, who, I was informed,

was one of her followers, and had that morning
preached to three or four thousand persons in the open

air.

   " The Baroness was dressed in white, with a plain
cap; she is an elderly person, rather tall and thin, has
a good deal of vivacity of manner, spoke French
fluently, and talked to us standing. She said she

felt more happiness in that poor place, than she had

enjoyed while surrounded with grandeur ; that, if we
were doing the Lord's work, it mattered little where

we were ; that the present were no common times, but
that the Almighty had a great work in the earth ; that

there had been a great number of conversions, es

pecially amongst the poor, but many also amongst the
rich ; that we had nothing to do but to come to Christ
in sincerity of heart, and be anything, or nothing, as
He pleases.

   " She holds meetings every evening for prayer, which
are crowded, and speaks with much energy. Spittler
said that she gave away almost all her income to the
1816.]         SCENE WITH PESTALOZZI.     153

poor, but that it was done without sufficient dis

crimination."

   On the 2d September they proceeded to Hoffwyl,
the residence of Count Fellenberg; it is a large

chateau, on the left of the road. " I sent in the letter

from Dr.   Marcet, introducing me," says  Mr. Allen :
" we were  shown into a neat room, which  Fellenberg

soon entered ; there was something in his countenance

and manner indicative of great mental power, openness
of character, and benignity. He has the charge of
about sixty children ; six or seven of them are the
sons of German princes, and the parents of others
are persons of considerable rank and property; but
Fellenberg boards and educates about twenty-five of

the children, for whom he receives nothing but the

produce of their labor. The pupik all appeared

healthy ; Fellenberg treats them as his own children ;

I noticed they spoke to him without any appearance

of awe or restraint."

    Pursuing their journey, they arrived at Berne,
whence, on the 6th, they came to Yverdon. " Here,"

says Mr. Allen, " I went with Cornelius and Martin

to deliver my letter of introduction to Professor

Pestalozzi ; he saluted me with two kisses, one on each

cheek : he is a lively old man, rather below the middle

stature, and thin ; some of the pupils were examined

in our presence, solving, by mental calculation, a
variety of difficult questions in algebraic equations,
etc. It is pleasant to see the terms upon which the
pupils live with Pestalozzi, and the tutors-- a spirit
of harmony seems to pervade the whole establishment.

I took an affectionate leave of the old man, who again
164  ILLNESS OF MRS. ALLEN AT GENEVA.                           [1816.

saluted me three times at parting. I was much

pleased with my visit."

After leaving Yverdon, passing through a most

picturesque country, with fine views of the lakes of

Neufchatel and Geneva, they reached Lausanne on the

7th  ; and on   the next   morning Mr. Allen                    s"pweaeksheoldf
his  dear wife  as being
                          very poorly, and adds,

our little meeting to comfort."

As they travelled on to Geneva, the state of the
                                                                " My dear
road induced     tohbesmervefrse, qu"epnrtelyferrteod  walk.     so, yet it
Charlotte," he                                           doing

fatigued her much ; and she has suffered sadly from
the poor accommodation at the inns. On reaching

Geneva, my dear friend Professor Pictet came to meet

us, and did everything which friendship could suggest

to promote our* comfort; dear Charlotte seemed very

far from well."

The next day did not exhibit more favorable symp

toms, yet a little energy was apparent in the sufferer

towards the evening, and revived his hopes of speedy

restoration. But the following morning seemed to

predict an event which was the farthest from his

apprehension when he left home, and calculated to

press his tender spirit with an exceeding weight of

sorrow. He says, " I did not notice anything remark
able until this morning, when, on awaking, I inquired

of my dear wife how she had rested ; she described

her feelings as being very distressing, and mentioned

an apprehension that she should never leave that

place." By this intimation he was, as he expresses              it,

"plunged into inexpressible anguish." On this very
1816.]  HER AFFECTING DEATH.  155

day, however, she was able to enter in her own private

journal, the following remarks : --

  " I have felt poorly and sinking for several days,
and now, this 1oth day of Ninth Month, feel as if I

must take leave of all here. What a trying dis
pensation ! but it is the Lord's will. What will become

of my precious husband, dear Cornelius, and the two
females? May the Shepherd of Israel keep and
preserve them !-- C. A."

  A degree of pressure on the brain soon deprived

her of mental power to describe the pain she appeared
to suffer. Three weeks she continued In this dis

tressing condition. When the fatal disease was at its
height, her afflicted husband says :--" In the depth of

my grief, I have prayed, with many tears, that He who

knows the tender feelings of the minds He has created

would pardon my excessive sorrow, and give me

strength to acquiesce in His holy will."
   On the 28th, he writes :-- " It was quite plain to dear

Cornelius and me, that all ground of hope was taken
away. We gave her wine and nourishment, but her

breathing became shorter, yet she did not appear to

suffer at all. My feelings are not to be described. I

knelt down by the bed-side, and, in a low tone, poured

out my supplications that her precious spirit might

be received into everlasting rest, and that we might
be preserved. Her countenance became heavenly,

giving evidence that she had done with the troubles
of time, and she quietly breathed her last without the
least struggle or motion. Oh, the serenity of that

blessed countenance! in our agonies we felt that it
156  MR. ALLEN'S RETURN TO LONDON.  [1816.

was well with her. I believe my reason would be

quite overset, were it not for a little Divine support."
   On the 3d of October, the remains of this precious

woman were interred in the cemetery of Sacconet.

Several kind and sympathizing friends united with

the bereaved husband and nephew, C. Hanbury, in
paying this last sad tribute of affection. Mr. Allen

says: -- "The pause at the ground was very solemn,
and on parting with the remains of all that was dearest

to me in life, I had strength to say audibly, ' Thy

will, O Lord, be done ! ' "

   During the month of sorrow, the most assiduous

and affectionate attentions were paid both to the suf
ferer and himself by Mr. and Mrs. Walket, Professor
Pictet and his excellent daughter, Mrs. Vernet, of

whom Mr. Allen says: --"She is like a sister; never

shall I forget her kindness and sympathy."
  A short time before the decease of Mrs. Allen,

Elizabeth Robson and Elizabeth Fry, accompanied

by Francis Martin, had proceeded towards the South
of France, and on the 4th of October, Mr. Allen and
his nephew quitted Geneva, and commenced their

sorrowful journey homeward.
   They reached home on the 2Oth of October,

" where," says Mr. Allen, " I found my dear mother,
daughter and sister, with whom I had a truly affecting

meeting. After tea we had a religious opportunity,

in which, I trust, a precious degree of Divine good
overshadowed us, and I was almost ready to exclaim,

'When Thou shuttest, none can open; and when Thou
openest, none can shut. Where the sceptre of Thy
love is stretched forth, even such a one as I, who
1816.]  MR. ALLEN IS COMFORTED.  157

scarcely dares to call himself Thy servant, is embold
ened to present his petition, that Thou wouldst give

him strength to bear his afflictions in a manner well

pleasing to Thee ; to sanctify them, and make them
the means of establishing him more firmly on the
alone sure foundation.' "

  " What an unspeakable mercy it is that I can never
for a moment contemplate the dearest one I have lost
but as a glorified spirit ! O ! may I be permitted to

follow in the Lord's due time, and have my lot with
her forever! O! Shepherd of Israel, gather me and

mine into thy fold, and preserve us to the end."
   Mr. Allen found what many have enjoyed under

similar trials, that God comforts his bereaved people
in His house of prayer, and therefore bears this testi

mony to Hi's love :--
   "26th. -- At meeting was favored with a sense of

the Divine presence ; dear E. J. Fry was there, and

was made the minister ol consolation to me; but, oh!

I am afraid to go back into the world and its lawful
engagements, and have prayed that I might rather be

taken out of it now than suffered to do anything

contrary to the Divine will. I am much tried with

the prospects of the lectures, and would cheerfully

give them up if I could see it was right to do so."

   It was well for him that he could not see it his

duty to decline lecturing. When the mind, by repose,
is permitted to feed on its own sorrows, it aggravates
instead of healing them. Ordinary employment is
the best means of quieting our own spirits, and gives

us an opportunity of comforting others with the com

fort wherewith we are comforted of God. On the
158                    RESUMES HIS LECTURES.                            [1816.

5th of November, Mr. Allen recommenced his lec

tures, and the hearers sympathized with a man who

had the kindness and courage, so soon after such a

calamity, to give them the benefit of his counsel.
His remark on it -- "Gave lecture at the Hospital
                       I is,  a
                                        it
to large audience; unusually long plaudits.                             It  was
a

deeply trying but went through as a duty."
                    ;

During the whole course the lectures were never

so much crowded many could not get in.;

   At the close of the week, he takes this cheering:

view of his condition that though his wife was gone,
his child --his pious child --was left.

"Though favored at times with a little precious

feeling of that which my soul longs to centre in for

ever, yet am very often cruelly buffeted and cast
                  I
                          I

                                                      I
down, and strong fears assail me that shall never

hold out to the end. The loss of my dearest Char

lotte, with whom was united in the strongest bonds

of affection, the remembrance of her love, and her

unremitting attention to my comforts, even in the

most minute particular, the sweetness and humility
of her spirit, the religious firmness of her mind, all --

all rise up before me, and make the separation bitter

indeed.             ought, however, to number amongst my
                  !

                       1

                                   is
                                                                    it
greatest mercies that my precious and only child has

long given, and still gives me, the strongest reason to

believe that she one of the lambs of the Heavenly

fSohreepvheer rd".  May all our spirits be united in Him

   The remainder of the year he filled up with
" Lectures, both morning and evening," with attend

ances at the various Committees of the Bible, School
1816.]         LETTER TO DUKE OF SUSSEX.                  159

and African Societies, and in correspondence with

princes, nobles and generous friends, to complete the
subscription of ten thousand pounds. On the last

day of the year, Mr. Allen gives the Duka of Sussex
an account of his success in the following beautiful
and characteristic epistle :--

               "To THE DUKE OF SUSSEX.

          " London, jist of Twelfth Month, 1816.

" Divine Providence has been pleased to crown the

cause which has been so nobly patronized and sup

ported by thy royal brother and thyself with the most

com" pTlhetee   success.  subscription  of ten  thousand  pounds
               invested

for the British and Foreign School is not only raised,
but we shall have a surplus of two or three hundred

pounds towards the new school-room, which we hope

to get completely ready, and everything in activity in

our new mansion, before the next general meeting in

the month called May, which will be one of uncom

mon interest. The work prospers in all directions;

if is
    I

                                                         is,

                                                    I

                                                                                           it,
and the only regret we now feel that poor Lancaster
   in such a disposition of mind that he cannot har

monize with his best and tried friends, nor can they

have anything to say to him until he gives unequivocal

proof of a change of heart, for he would have ruined

the whole concern, and some of those engaged in

great firmness under trying circumstances had not

been  displayed.  the only regret, not          because   did not
       have said
   "

recollect my endeared friend, our late worthy secretary,
160         THE DUKE'S KEI-LY TO MR. ALLEN.            [1816.

IJoseph Fox, but because have the most unshaken

confidence that his happiness, in seeing the accom
plishment of that object in which he made such large
sacrifices, could not be so great ae that which he now

enj"oys. at any time, thou wouldst wish to know how
     I If,
we are going on, and wouldst be pleased, through thy

secretary, to give me notice of  would wait upon
                      is
                         it

                             iIt,

                                                   it
thee with pleasure.
        " remain, very respectfully, thine sincerely,

                                 " WILLIAM ALLEN."

   The reply of the Duke very striking, as proves
that, on this, the last night of the year, short as

was the time allotted to rest, was rendered yet more
brief by the deep interest which this excellent Prince

cherished in the great cause of educating the poor:--

     " FRIEND ALLEN,

" At the close of a very eventful year, received
                                         I It I
your most welcome letter of last night.        did indeed

convey balm to my soul. And as one's hopes are

raised by a happy combination of events, could not,

after returning my humble thanks to Providence for

all His great mercies, help exclaiming, that the year

had turned out more fortunate than we mortals were

inclined to hope. You, my good friend, who have

so diligently worked in the vineyard, and have like

wise had your severe trials this last year which has

just closed upon us, will also rejoice in the full accom

plishment of the second great work which you have
1816.]  THE DUKE'S REPLY TO MR. ALLEN.  161

undertaken, and for which you have, with such

admirable    constancy, labored   for so many years.
   " Happy,   indeed, would it   have been for us could

we have enjoyed our harvest in the company of our

departed and excellent friend Fox. Still, I believe,

his modesty would have kept him back on this

occasion, had his friends not pushed him forward;

therefore, it is better for him that he is gone, where, I

trust, we may all go, if we endeavor to discharge, to

the best of our faculties, those duties imposed upon
us. It is this hope which consoles us, in some
measure, for the loss of a valuable friend. Indeed, as

an equal, one must consider the demise of a friend a

personal loss, as nothing can replace him ; and my

friend Fox might perhaps have his equal, but his
superior most decidedly not. What we are to do to

Ireplace him, without your assistance and advice,

know not.

  "As for Joseph Lancaster, I will not begin the year

by abusing him ; indeed, every cause is a bad one

where it is necessary to call in such aid; but thus far I

must add, that great as his sins have been, and ever
must be acknowledged, the smiles of flattery were too

bewitching for him, and he has unfortunately become

a slave at the shrine of that seducer.

  " Should matters change, I never will refuse shaking
hands with him ; but I must be first satisfied that the

heart has ever remained pure, and that his imagination

only was bewildered and intoxicated.

   " Excuse this hasty scrawl-- it is now half-past five,

and I am just setting off for Windsor, to be present at

my mother's breakfast.
162       REVIEW OF THE YEAR.                                   [1817.

   " May every happiness attend you, and may Provi              !I
                                                                      it, ! i:;I
dence continue to prosper our great undertaking,
the sincere prayer of your well-wisher and friend,

                                          " AUGUSTUS FREDERICK."

  "Kensington Palace, January i, i8i"j"

So that joy was mingled with Mr. Allen's sorrow,

and his heavenly Father crowned the year with His

goodness as he thus beautifully commemorates it.
   " The year which has now closed has been singularly

awful to me. In  iIt  have lost my precious Charlotte,

who was the balm of life, my comfort and support

under all my trials and labors for the good of others.
In this year also have lost my dear fellow-laborer in
          I
              I
the great cause of the education of the poor, Joseph
Fox and here am left behind yet, truly, must
     ;                                                      ;

acknowledge that the Almighty hath been good to
His poor afflicted servant. Lord, preserve me "

   The year 1817 opens with a similar spirit of depen
dence on God, and an earnest desire to be entirely

consecrated to his service.

  " If the Lord would but condescend to purify me

thoroughly, and manifest His will with clearness,

think, at times, could give up all to follow Him; but
          if
O, the hardness and corruption of the human heartI

who can know it?"                                        :

His house had long been the resort of foreigners

who took any interest in general education, or wanted

information on the best methods of conducting

and he seems to record in his diary his increased

pleasure  they partook of his hospitalities. This
was one of his dinner parties --
1817.]  LETTER FROM THE KING OF HAYTI.               163

   " At dinner we had the company of Baron Strand-

man, Dr. Hamel, the four Russian youths, Sultan
Katta Gary-Crimgary, with Mornay, etc., etc. We

spent a very interesting afternoon, conversing with

them about the Bible Society, schools, etc."
   The little kingdom of Hayti had received special

attention from Mr. Allen. He labored hard to extend

its civilization both by commerce and education. The

following letter from Henry Christophe, the King of
Hayti, addressed to Mr. Clarkson, will show the
ample success of their endeavors. Both its com

position and spirit do great credit to the African

monarch :--

" THE KING TO THOMAS CLARKSON, &c., &c.

             " Palace of Sans Souci, Oct. 18, 1816,
                  thirteenth year of Independence.

"SiR, MY FRIEND,

" I have read and meditated upon the contents of

your letter  of the 5th of  August,  with  all  the  attention

of which I   am capable.
" I am sensibly touched by the great interest which

you take in the cause ot the Africans and their de

scendants -- in the prosperity of Hayti, and in my

personal reputation, and therefore I will reply to you

with the frankness and sincerity which the relation in

which we stand to each other requires; and I hope

that you will thus become acquainted with my char

acter and motives, as I think I am with yours, and

with those of my other estimable friends.
164  LETTER FROM THE KING OF HAYTI.  [1817.

   " Entirely devoted to my project of establishing
public instruction, of extending moral principles as
widely as possible, and of concurring with the noble

and generous views of our friends, I have welcomed

with gratitude the masters and professors whom they

have sent out to me. As soon as Messrs. Gulliver

and Sanders arrived here, I fixed them in the metrop

olis, and have procured them scholars, whom they

instruct upon the plan of Lancaster. I am astonished

at the effects of this new system, and at the premature
intelligence which it develops in the pupils. In fact,

I consider the sending of these masters as the greatest

benefit my friends could have conferred upon me.
   " Mr. Evans, the teacher of drawing and painting,

is established at Sans Souci, and his school is also

opened.

  " I trust that my friends will send out other masters

and professors for the supply of the Royal College,

and to enable me to extend the benefits of education

to every town in the kingdom.

  " I am too desirous of meriting the kindness and

esteem which have been shown me, not to make every
effort in my power to secure the approbation of my

friends.

  " I beg of you to watch over the interests of the

Africans, our brethren and of the Haytians, their de

scendants, with your usual care, zeal and humanity.
You, who have so long been the champion of this

noble cause, cannot be indifferent to my solicitations.
   " Believe me, Sir, with the greatest respect and the

most cordial friendship,  " HENRY."
1817.]  SENDS TEACHERS TO HAYTI.  165

   In the supply of teachers to this infant state, Mr.

Wilberforce united heartily with the Committee of
the British and Foreign School, and two masters,
Gulliver and Daniel, were sent out with slates and

other school materials, to establish the system there.
But it soon appeared that Mr. Wilberforce had been
prevailed upon by other parties to prefer sending
teachers by another channel. "Judge of my surprise,"
says Mr. Allen, in a Christian and spirited remon
strance to Mr. Wilberforce, " when we were informed
by the owner of the Sprightly that Mr. Wilberforce

had spoken for a passage for a schoolmaster --that his

name was Sweet, and that he was sent by the National
Society. The business will be fully explained to

Christophe, but I am afraid that he will begin to suspect

that his new friends are not acting in concert with

each other; I have, however, great confidence in his

good sense."

   At a Committee-meeting about the close of the

year, Mr. Wilberforce came in, when the whole matter
was discussed. He consented at last to pay for the
slates and materials, though obviously much chagrined
at their being sent. " His preference for the Church
of England plan," says Mr. Allen, "is marked."

    He had evidently placed himself in a somewhat

equivocal position, as an annual subscriber, a vice-

president, an eloquent advocate, and yet, according to

his sons, a disapprover of the Society; and if the

sons of Wilberforce correctly estimated their father's
opinions, the difficulties which frequently presented
themselves to the Committee in their intercourse with

this otherwise good man, are explained.
166  EXPLANATORY LETTER  [1817.

   As the Duke of Kent was residing on the Continent,
Mr. Allen was very anxious that full accounts from

time to time should be sent to him, on all subjects in
which he was specially interested. The following
letter exhibits the sweet spirit of the writer : --

          " London, 2d of Third Month (March), 1817.
" ESTEEMED FRIEND,

  " I trust thou knowest my disposition too well to

attribute the plainness of this address to any other

cause than an adherence to my religious principles,

and wilt not suspect me of assuming too great a

degree of familiarity, in consequence of the       kind
                                                   been
notice with which I have been hitherto favored.
  " I have long wished to write, but I have

partly prevented by the heavy affliction which Divine

Providence has permitted to come upon me, and

partly by a fear of being intrusive; the latter impedi
ment has been removed, by a paragraph in one of thy

letters to Rac Wilson, a very zealous friend to our

school concerns; and knowing that he was in the

habit of writing to thee, I have furnished him, from
time to time, with such information as I thought

would prove acceptable ; but, in the present instance,

I can trust no one with the expression of some senti

ments, which nothing but a sense of duty and affec

tionate attachment to thee would have compelled me

to hazard. The Duke of Kent knows that I have

never courted his notice from any interested view;

indeed it is only in order to be more extensively

useful to my country and to mankind, that I wish to

be known to those in the higher ranks of society.
1817.]   TO THE DUKE OF KENT.                      1G7

"Since my return, I have inquired anxiously into

the state of those arrangements, which are so admir

ably calculated to remove all those embarrassments

that must have pressed heavily upon thy mind, and

which we all so deeply deplore ; and I was delighted

to find that they were operating to our utmost wishes.

   " It is not only of consequence to complete this

great work, but to complete it in the shortest possible

time, because the absence of so powerful a patron

from the country, is an injury to those works of

benevolence, which distinguish England among the

surrounding nations ; and any interruption to the
plan would put off that day, so honorable to the

Duke, and so gratifying to all his real friends, when

he shall nave discharged all his engagements, and be

in full possession of all his revenues; and that by a

wise disposition of his own resources."

Mr. Allen proceeds to touch upon some other im

portant and delicate questions, most intimately con

nected with the happiness and welfare of the Duke;

and after very modestly but earnestly offering some

suggestions for his consideration, he details the pro
                                               concludes: --
gre"ssI  of the education  of the poor,  and
         must now repeat                 hope   that nothing
                           the earnest
which I have said may give offence to the Duke of
Kent, and I am sure it would not if he knew my
Iheart, and with what sincerity and attachment sub

scribe myself his faithful and respectful friend,

                           " WILLIAM ALLEN."

   An extract from the Duke's reply, dated Brussels,
May 5, 1817, will show his appreciation of Mr. Allen's
168  THE DUKE'S REPLY.  [1817.

exertions, and the characteristic resolution of his
noble mind.

   " It would have been exceedingly satisfactory to

me, had it been in my power to have attended the
last meeting of my Committee at Karslake's, knowing
the sincerity of your heart and your attachment to

me. I am happy to find that you are perfectly con

vinced of my adherence to the spirit of my original

agreement, and I will venture to say that nothing

shall divert me from it. Indeed, when every three

months I have the satisfaction of seeing between four

and five thousand pounds wiped off, no other stimulus

can be wanting to induce me to go on, even if I were

not bound by that most sacred of all tics, a promise
to my friends. Upon the other point, to which you

have so delicately alluded, I shall only say that I trust

Providence will direct my proceedings for the best,

and that I shall never deviate from the line which I

conscientiously believe it is my duty to pursue.

   " I take my leave by repeating the unalterable
sentiments of friendship and regard, with which I

remain, esteemed friend, yours most faithfully,

                                                                     " EDWARD."

  Two female friends, II. Field and E. Barker, from
America, were desirous of paying a religious visit to

some parts of the Continent of Europe, and it was
proposed, as on a former occasion, that Mr. Allen

should accompany them. At first it seemed a duty

to decline the service; but, on consulting his pious

mother, she encouraged his going with them, though
1817.]                THEY ARRIVE IN PARIS.  169

the pressure of engagements and the extent of corres

pondence at this time were very oppressive.
   The two females from America; Josiah Forster;

his nephew, Daniel Hanbury; "his beloved Mary;"

George Majolier, who was returning home to his
parents; and Mr. Allen, started on Saturday, the 2ist
of June, for Dover, spent the Lord's day in that town,

and on the next went on board the Countess of Elgin.
   They proceeded to Paris on the 26th, and visited

the Abb6 Gaultier and several eminent individuals,

whose love to education and evangelical religion drew
forth the best affections of Mr. Allen's heart. Some

places of interest were shown to the American Friends

by one who, though dressed in a plain garb, could

estimate the valuable and beautiful in the works of
                                             view of Paris :--
ma"n.AftTehr isteais  his  description of a   of Montmartre ;   it
                      we   went to the top

was a beautiful sunset, and the view of Paris from
is

        I

                 is

                                       ;

                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                          it,
lying as at our feet, was truly grand, and, as they

burn only wood, nothing obstructs our having a clear
sight of the whole on the northeast side of Mont

martre are the gypsum quarries, which they were
burning for plaster of Paris all the houses of Paris,
as far as could see, were built of stone; looking to

the right, the gilded dome of L'Hopital des Invalides

a striking object; still more to the right, in the

distance,  St. Cloud, the residence of the King;

before us the two towers of Notre Dame the view

altogether was very fine."

   "We dined at Fontainbleau; a large place; very
quiet, and few persons to be seen. It was the favorite

hunting seat of Henry IV of France, and of Bona-
170  ESCAPE OF MR. FORSTER.  [1817

parte, who signed his abdication in the palace here,

which we visited. It is very splendid and covers
much ground. The apartments are magnificent;
several of them hung with Gobelin tapestry. There
are most beautiful vases of Sevres porcelain ; a table
also of the same excellent workmanship."

   It appears that the taste of Mr. Forstcr had nearly
cost him a lodging in the gaol at Lyons :--

   " We were surprised at receiving information that
Josiah had run a risk of being arrested to-day, in
consequence of wearing a red carnation in his button

hole ; it appears that within the last ten days several

persons have been taken up for wearing red pinks in
their coats."

   From Lyons the travellers proceeded to Congenies,
which they reached on the loth of July. Their
fellow-professors of that vicinity were assisted by them
in more perfectly arranging their system of church

discipline ; overseers were appointed to watch over

the flock ; the school was reorganized ; some inter

esting youths were appointed as teachers to the

different classes ; pecuniary assistance was given, by
which the women Friends were enabled more efficiently
to pursue their occupation of spinning ; and facilities
afforded for the fuller employment of the men, par

ticularly in the winter season.
   Some unhappy prejudice existed in the minds of a

few individuals towards each other, and Mr. Allen
could not rest till this stumbling block to their edifi
cation was removed. It was happily accomplished in

a manner similar to that which he adopted at Pyrmont.
O, that all Christians would act the part of William
1817.]  VISITS VERSAILLES.  171

Allen, and heal the divisions among the members of
churches, instead of widening them, and thus encoura

ging distance and separation !
   After thus laboring diligently for the spiritual and

temporal welfare of the little settlement of Friends in
that part of the world, they parted from them in
much love, amidst the tears of a poor but affectionate

people.

   " Whilst passing from one of the neighboring villages
to another," Mr. Allen observes, " Daniel Hanbury
announced that my dear friend F. Martin was coming

on horseback to us ; he was soon by the coach side ;

we mutually rejoiced to see one another. I find dear

Martin has exerted himself strenuously in the school
cause ; and here is an ample field. He is about to
leave this district, and enter upon the office of pastor

at Bordeaux. I think E. P. Frossard should succeed

Martin in his labors in the school cause in this part
of the country."

   On the 25th of July they proceeded to Montpclier;

here they met with some serious persons ; inspected
the prison and a large establishment for beggars.

   The next day they proceeded towards Bordeaux,
and were kindly welcomed by the aged Pasteur Martin,
President of the Protestant Consistory, who rendered

them every assistance in his power during their stay
of two days at that place, after which they pursued
their journey, arriving on the 1 2th of August at

Versailles, where they visited the palace, the gardens,

library and the grand and petit Trianon, the former

built of Languedoc marble, by Louis IV, for Madame

de Maintenon, an ambitious woman, and the tool of
172       VISITS THE ROYAL OBSERVATORY.           [18l7.

the Jesuits in the persecution of the Port Royalists,
and the good Fenelon and Guyon. The splendid

vases of malachite and Sevres porcelain, with the

gorgeous tapestry of the Gobelins, a beautiful pint
cup of lapis lazuli, and over one of the mantel-pieces

a group of figures in bas-relief, exquisitely cut in
agate, particularly attracted Mr. Allen's attention. In

the evening they proceeded to Paris, and on the I3th

visited the Jardin des Plantes, in that city, where
Mr.   A.  remarks :--
   "  We                   to  great  advantage,  the  day
           saw everything

being beautifully fine. The scientific names of the

beasts are attached to their apartments, which are

very roomy; and the botanical student has every

facility, as the plants are all labelled. I suppose there

is not in the whole world anything to equal this

ga"rdOenn."the I4th I was introduced by Count Lastcyrie,

to Professor Arago, the assistant astronomer at the

Royal Observatory;" an interesting establishment,
which of course Mr Allen visited. He enumerates a

variety of telescopes and other optical instruments

with which he was much delighted. Above all he

was cheered to learn from Count Lasteyrie that the

French government had recently sent down orders

for the establishment of schools on the plan of the

British and Foreign School Society in each of the

departments. Soon afterwards he learned that the

whole of the Island of Hayti was provided with

teachers on the same plan.

The next morning they left Paris for Dover, where

they parted from their American friends, and arrived
1817.]          REVIEW OF JOURNEY.            173

in London on the 24th of August.          His review of
the journey is thus expressed :--
" On my return from my long journey, in which
my dear child and I have travelled by land and water
nearly two thousand miles, I find everything at home

apparently in order and going on well ; for which,
and for our preservation and that of our dear com

panions, I desire to cherish reverent gratitude. I have

felt much peace in this little act of faith and dedication,
and have at times been ready to say, Lord: it is

enough; continue to preserve me and mine to the

end : yet nature feels deeply the privation of her

sweet society, who loved me ardently, and whom it

was my constant delight to render happy-- but oh!
my dearest Charlotte, I have the firm conviction that
                                           "
thou art safe,  whate'er becomes  of  me
                                          !

On the 1 8th of September, he attended the British

and Foreign School Committee, and gave an account

of his visit to France. At his suggestion the Com

mittee agreed to contribute £200 towards the expenses

of Frossard, who should travel through the south of

France, to promote and assist in the organization of

new schools, and endeavor to rouse the richer classes

of the Protestants to subscribe towards a fund at

Bordeaux, where they were anxious to establish an

active Central Committee.

  " I would strongly advise you," writes Mr. Allen to

his friend Martin, " to sit down to the map of France,

and mark all the places where the Protestants are

most numerous, and to plan out the first journey in a

direction where complete success is most probable,
for a degree of success hi the first instance will en-
174     ORGANIZING SCHOOLS IN FRANCE.             [1817.

courage and give fresh spirits both to him and to the

Committee. Having settled the route, you should

next consider who are the persons to whom it will be
useful to address letters of recommendation, and you

should especially endeavor to secure the co-operation

of the prefects and members of government ; in his

way he should see all the Protestant pastors, and

endeavor to interest them in the cause, and prevail

upon them to advocate it; and also to distribute

copies of Count Lasteyric's book upon education to

such of their hearers as have property and influence.
   " What a privilege to be placed by Divine Provi

dence in a situation for doing such essential service to

your country, to religion and. to mankind. I need

not say what rigid economy will be necessary in con

ducting this great work; but I hope that Divine

Providence will incline the hearts of those who have

it in their power to contribute the means."
        3Oth he records :--
On the                           by  his     request,  to
" Went  up to Prince Esterhazy,

converse with him on the subject of schools ; we had

a most interesting conversation of above an hour; I

explained the difference between our plan and Bell's.

The ambassador expressed a full resolution to intro

duce our system into Austria, and to send three or

four lads to be instructed at the Borough-road."

Thus was the influence of this good man extended

on every side. His home, his heart, his purse, were

open to all of any country who would help him to

disseminate the knowledge of Jesus Christ by the
circulation of the Scriptures and the education of the

poor. Every one, from whatever quarter of the globe
1817.]  GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  175

he came, was impressed with the singleness of purpose
and devout assiduity of his noble heart, while they
saw him maintain his own religious principles, and
even peculiarities, with a decision as remarkable as it

is rare.

   His lectures were continued at the Hospital, four
every week ; and his attention to any of the institutions
to which he had once given his name never flagged.
The latter part of this year his evenings were more
than usually devoted to astronomical observations
and calculations in his observatory at Newington, and
with the single exception of the pain he felt, in com
mon with the entire community, on the death of the
amiable Princess Charlotte, on whom the hopes of
the nation were fixed, appears to have closed happily

and usefully.
                      CHAPTER IX.

   FIRST EFFORTS IN MINISTRY, AND VISIT TO LANARK.

   WE have before observed Mr. Allen's attention to
the practice among the Society of Friends, for some
of their number who feel a concern for the spiritual
welfare of their fellow-members, to pay visits of in

quiry, condolence and instruction, to each family
attending worship at the particular meeting to which
they belong. Mary Dudley and her daughter engaged
Mr. Allen to accompany them in visits they were

about to pay ; " but, alas," he adds, " I am so weak,
low and poor, that I seem utterly unfit." Yet in the

review of a week, he records :--

  " I have now joined our friends, M. and E. Dudley,
in nine family visits, in most, if not all, of which, I

thought that a precious degree of Divine power pre

vailed, and was graciously permitted to attend us from

house to house. It seems to be a time of encourage

ment, and has been marvellous to me, as I have

thought it right to say something in most of the
families hitherto and have had peace in it."

   This was repeated till the circle of visitation was
completed. How well he was adapted for such an
exercise, may be judged of by the spirit evinced in
the following extracts: --

   "Still under the feeling of great poverty of spirit--

                                                    (176)
1818.]  VISITS FAMILIES WITH FRIENDS.  177

Lord how long! O that Thou wouldst purify me
thoroughly, and having seen meet to strip me of
what was dearest in life, enable me to devote the re

mainder of my days to Thy service, and condescend

to show me clearly how I may shake off every shackle

and burden which may have a tendency to impede

my progress towards the heavenly city."

   "Still travelling through a barren land, but meet
with some springs now and then. We cannot com
mand that heavenly enjoyment, the sense of the

Divine presence, but we ought to use our utmost

exertion to keep the mind in a fit state for it."

  "A struggle must be maintained against a dispo

sition to seek ease at the expense of my duties."
   What parent would not hail the visit of a friend

who could give such advice to his children, as that
written by Mr. Allen to Emilien Frossard, the son of
M. Frossard, of Montauban, whom he kept in his

house for some time, and then gained him a situation
as assistant in a respectable school near Manchester ?
The day of his departure he put into his hand the

following most valuable letter :--

" DEAR EMILIEN,

  " I feel anxious for thy welfare in every respect, and

especially in thy going alone among perfect strangers:
but, if thou art careful to attend to the Divine Monitor
in thy own mind, the Spirit of Christ, thou wilt be
under the notice and protection of the greatest of
beings, and wilt be favored with that sweet peace in
thy own soul, which is far beyond all other enjoyments.

Accept, dear Emilien, the following hints from thy
178                 LETTER TO E. FROSSARD.              [1818.

sincere friend and well-wisher. Preserve this letter

and   peruse it occasionally.  of  the     day to  the  reading
      I. Devote some portion
   "

of the Holy Scriptures alone in thy chamber, and

pray constantly to the Almighty that He would en

ligh" t2e.n   thy mind  to understand them.        a  state  that
             Endeavor   to keep thy mind in such

thou mayst turn it to think upon God many times in

the course of the day and pour out thy petitions to

him    in   secret   for preservation.     which  thou  wouldst
   "       Never    do anything privately
      3.
be ashamed of if made public, and if evil thoughts

come into thy mind, endeavor to turn from them and

not follow up the train of them, or indulge them for a

moment; always endeavor that thy very thoughts

may be acceptable in the sight of God, to whom they

are always open.

   "4. Be careful not to read books of an immoral
tendency, as novels, romances, etc., and endeavor to

discourage it in others : they are poison to the mind.
"
             Be punctual  in attending a place    of worship.
   5-

"6. Be very careful what company thou kecpest;

have few intimates and let them be persons of the

most virtuous character, for if a young man associate
with those of bad character, he infallibly loses his own.

   "7. Be very circumspect in all thy conduct, and

particularly towards females.
   " 8. Study the interest of thy employer, and en

deavor to promote it by all fair and honorable means

in thy power ; study the duties he expects from thee,
and fulfil them faithfully, as in the sight of God.

Avoid entering into any parties against him, if such
        1818.]  VISITS PRISONERS WITH MRS. FRY.                                                179

        should be found among the pupils, and never speak

        disrespectfully of him.
        "
                Endeavor  to  improve       thyself  in thy studies                            in
          9.
        the intervals of leisure.
        " IO. Never do anything against thy conscience.

        " I have not time to add more than that my prayers

        are put up for thy preservation, and that as long as

        thou continuest to conduct thyself in a virtuous and

        honorable manner, thou wilt find a steady friend in

                                            "WILLIAM ALLEN."

        This letter called forth a most warm and grateful

        reply, in which E. F. states that he sent a copy of it

        to his father, who, delighted with the excellent pre

        cepts it contained, had thought it right to let the stu

        dents at Montauban share in and made one of
                                            it,

                                                               it

                                                                                            ;
        his best lessons in morals and French composition.

           It will be recollected that Mr. Allen had been often

        solicited by his mother, and others whose judgment

        he esteemed, to devote himself to the service of the

        ministry among Friends. His deep sense of his own

        unworthiness made him hesitate for many years but

I it      not improbable that these visitations, in which he
      is
        found more freedom and acceptance than he expected,

        helped to decide him as to the path of duty.                                           On
        February 8th, he says --
                          a
        "Went with E. Fry and Cornelius to Newgate;
                            J.
                                         :
        about one hundred women prisoners were collected

        and behaved in most exemplary manner. E. F.
                                                     it

                                                                 J.
                                                                   I
        read the seventh chapter of Luke to them in a solemn

        manner and made some comments upon very sweetly.

        thought precious degree of power attended.
                a
180  EFFORTS FOR CRIMINAL REFORM.  [1818.

also ventured to address them and I felt peace. We

were all well satisfied with our visit." And on the
I ith:--"Meeting. Pretty close exercise of mind and
a sense of good: the text, 'Feed my sheep,' was

quoted, and I felt as if it would have been right to
supplicate publicly, but after some conflict of mind I
put it off, and felt uneasy afterwards; I have since
been very low and poor, and yet, if it should be re
quired of me thus to avow myself openly, may I not

hope for indubitable clearness."
   On the 8th of April, his difficulties seem to have

been overcome --"The first meeting was to me a

solemn time; I was impressed with what I thought a

Isense of duty to say a few words, which I deferred

till the meeting was breaking up, when ventured to

utter them, and had peace, not only that day, but in

the night also."

   So that by visiting the families, and then the pris
oners in Newgate, his mouth became opened to utter
God's faithfulness to his assembled Church.

   Much of William Allen's time was occupied, about

this period, with committees and various engagements
connected with the subject of criminal reform. On

the 2 ist, he states :--
   " Had an interview with Lord Sidmouth, together

with S. Hoare, jun., T. F. Buxton and William Craw
ford, on the Reformatory for six hundred boys; we

were well received, and the first half-hour was spent

in considering the plans, with which he seemed pleased,
and desired us to draw up a written statement, which
he assured us should be laid before government. We

then had a long conference on the cases of Kelly and
1818.]  ROBERT OWEN'S PRINCIPLES.       181

Spicer, the two boys condemned for uttering forgedit,

notes ; we cleared our consciences, and, I think, made

a little impression. He said that he had sent for the

crown solicitor, and expected him every minute ; we

proposed waiting for him in another room, which we
did, and then Buxton very properly laid the case
before him; he promised to inquire into it without

delay ; Buxton and I then went to the Penitentiary,

Millbank and to Tothill Fields."
   The statement required by Lord Sidmouth was

most ably drawn up by Mr. Allen, and presented at a
subsequent interview, when his colleague and himself

met with a most favorable reception.

   At the close of the previous year, Mr. Allen laments
the abominable conduct of Robert Owen --a man he

had signally served, and who, at first, promised so

well -- in the following strain :--" Robert Owen is in

town, and I am much distressed about him. He has

blazoned abroad his infidel principles in all the public

newspapers, and he wishes to identify me with his

plans, which I have resisted in the most positive
manner; I am resolved not to remain in the concern

of New Lanark, unless it be most narrowly and con

stantly watched by some one on whom we can thor

oughly rely."
   He thought it necessary immediately to confer with

Lord Sidmouth, and stated to him how much he and
his partners in the Lanark concern, not only disavowed,
but held in abhorrence the principles of Robert Owen.
This determined the partners to visit Lanark, and in
the month of April they arrived at the interesting
spot; "the principal object," as he describes "being
182                 VISIT TO LANARK.       [1818.

to discover whether any attempt is making there to

weaken the faith of the people in Divine revelation ;

though I must say that all accounts justify a hope

that they stand firm to the principles of Christianity."
   After a week's residence there, he writes :--

  " This has been a trying week, as I have had deep

exercise of mind on account of Robert Owen's infidel

principles. I have sustained many disputes with him.

We have endeavored to get pretty full information

relative to the state of the concern at Lanark, both

with regard to the population and the business. What

I pray for is to be favored to see clearly what is re

quired of me to do. Oh ! that He whom I wish to

love and to serve, would favor me with light and

clearness !

  " I find that when R. O. was applied to at first for

leave to establish a Bible Society, he refused, but

afterwards some of the people established  and now
I

        it

          I
                  I

                         I
                                                 I

                                                 I I it,

                                                                                     it
his wife and family subscribe. Just before dinner on
the 6th, asked R. Owen's wife whether she thought

that the people would be inclined to meet the London

proprietors, and to receive any communication which

they might be disposed to make: she said they would

be quite disposed.  rather think she must have told

her husband; for he no sooner saw me when we were

going to dinner, than he asked me whether was dis
posed to have a meeting. This put me to the test;

told him that did feel inclined to meet the people;

but was only fair to state, that though should

certainly prepare nothing beforehand, yet since he

had addressed them on his principles, might feel

right to state what were ours. He immediately said,
1818.]  MORALS OF THE PEOPLE.  183

' Will to-morrow evening do ? ' I assented, and in

the kindest manner he said that notice should be

given to all the village. I replied that my wish was

merely to meet the work-people and officers of the

establishment, though I should not object to any one

who might wish to come. In the meantime, a depu

tation arrived from the work-people, stating, that they
were preparing an address to the London proprietors,

and requesting to know when they might present it.

We fixed upon the time of the meeting, when what I

might have to say would come in very naturally in

the reply. In the afternoon I took a little walk by

myself in the grounds, and felt as if half my burden

was taken off, by having consented to the arrange
ments for to-morrow evening. The engagement,

however, appeared a very weighty and difficult one,

as, on all accounts, I wished to avoid any unnecessary

pain to R. O.'s feelings ; while, at the same time, my

peace consisted in speaking the whole truth.

  " The next day Joseph Foster and I took a walk to

Old Lanark, to see the minister there, and inquire
into the moral state of the people at the mills; he
said he was not aware of any case of drunkenness for

a year or two past, and he did not think that Owen's
principles took any root among the population. We
then went to another of their ministers ; he gave us a
very good account of the morals of the people at the

mills, and I find that he visits them often ; he seemed

heartily glad to hear our sentiments on the subject of
the Scriptures, and we urged him to visit the schools,
and see that they were taught there, and also to cor
respond with us if he saw any attempt made to intro-
184  ADDRESS OF THE WORK-PEOPLE.  [1818.

duce anything contrary to revealed religion. On our
return to the mills we had a conference with the

master of the work-people who has had the general
superintendence. He has the character of a steady
religious man, and his information was satisfactory.
About half-past seven we went down to the works,

where we found the people assembled in the great
room of the institution, to the amount of several

hundreds ; we went up into the gallery, and took our
seats in front. The deputation walked up the middle
of the room, and the reader, Innis, the schoolmaster,

mounted the pulpit, and read audibly the following

exceedingly well composed address :--

"'To WILLIAM ALLEN, JOSEPH FOSTER AND MICHAEL

" ' GENTLEMEN,  GIBBS, ESQUIRES.

" ' We, the inhabitants of New Lanark, beg to ad

dress ourselves to you, as part proprietors of the

establishment, on your appearance amongst Us. We

have had several opportunities of expressing to Robert

Owen, Esq., our grateful sense of his continued kind

ness to us, as our more immediate master; and would

now offer you our most cordial Welcome, on visiting
this place. We are fully aware, Gentlemen, that

although your other pursuits may prevent your con

tinued residence m the village, yet, whatever tends to

add to our comfort, or to render our circumstances

easier, will meet with your approbation ; and, in this
view, we regard it as not unnecessary to thank you,

thus publicly, for the many advantages we enjoy,
through your co-operation with Mr. Owen, and the
1818.]  MEETING WITH THEM.  185

other partners in the concern. The care which is

taken in gratuitously educating our children, and the

humane treatment we experience, under the persons to
whom is committed the management of the various
departments of this work, are advantages which call
forth our earnest expressions of gratitude. We are
sensible that our circumstances are much superior to
that of all other cotton-spinners ; and it is our desire,

by a steady attention to our various duties, to merit a
continuance of that kindness which we now experience.
We hope the interest you have taken (in conjunction
with the other proprietors) in the bill now pending in

Parliament, -- having, for its object, to place others,
of the laboring class, in some degree, on a footing
with ourselves, -- will be rewarded, by your seeing it
pass into a law. We conclude, by expressing our

desire that all cotton-spinners enjoyed the same ad

vantages as we do ; then would the master manufac

turers feel the superior gratification arising from
possessing the affections of a well-treated and happy

people; and their servants that pleasure which a con
tinued kind attention, on the part of the master, is

calculated to afford.

   "'With much respect, Gentlemen, we sign ourselves

in the name, and by the request of the inhabitants of

New Lanark, etc.'

                                        (Signed by eight persons.)

   " When it was finished, Joseph Foster, Michael

Gibbs and I, rose, and I was mercifully favored with

utterance and strength to discharge the burden which
has so rested upon my mind, though the engagement
186  MR. ALLEN'S ADDRESS.  [1818.

was one of no small delicacy, Owen being present.

I felt a comfortable degree of best help, and spoke for

about three-quarters of an hour. The people were

remarkably attentive, and when all was over separated

very quietly. R. O. and I walked together to Braxfield.

He did not make the least objection to what was said,

but remarked that that day would be long remembered

by the people. J. F. and M. G. said that they could

not have wished a word altered. I was deeply thank

ful in being thus helped, and one of my great objects

in visiting Scotland being accomplished, I looked

towards setting off home with pleasure."
   The next morning Mr. Allen received a deputation,

requesting that he would favor the inhabitants with a
copy of his reply ; but a difficulty arose, as he had
not previously written anything for the occasion. He
promised, however, that on his return to London, he

would endeavor to send what he could recollect on

the subject.
   He begins by giving them a history of the reasons

which induced them to take the mill, and then

proceeds, --
   " We are then embarked together in a common

cause --your interests and our interests are intimately
blended. We are aiming, not merely to promote the
comfort and happiness of the people of New Lanark,
but to afford an example to the manufacturers of
Glasgow, of Stockport, of Manchester, and, in fact, to
every manufactory in the whole world; for these
pri"ncIniplethsisariemopforutannivtebrsuaslinaepssp,lichaotwioenv. er, your cordial
co-operation is indispensably necessary ; the eyes of
1818.]  TO THE PEOPLE OF LANARK.                                                                                                 187

the world are upon us, and much, very much, dependsI
upon the nature of your conduct. Those who are
watching for evil would be glad of an opportunity of  it,

impeaching the moral character of the populationI
here -- would be eager to employ it as an argument
                                                                                                                              :
against our plan ; and most effectually would they

counteract all our attempts to propagate were they

able to show that the cause of morality and virtue

were not promoted by it. But, from all that have
heard and seen, feel the deepest conviction, that, in
point of moral and religious feeling, as well as in
temporal comfort, no manufacturing population, of
equal extent, can compare with New Lanark."

   He then declares that, while they were anxious to

promote their temporal comfort, they felt the deepest

interest in what related, to their eternal well-being,

and presses upon them the value of an interest in
Christ above every earthly consideration. " But," he
adds, " here we would be distinctly understood We
are not desirous to see you proselyted to this or that
form of religion, but we are anxious to see your
children brought up sincere Christians. The London

proprietors, who are now present with you (as well as
our friend John Walker, now upon the continent),
though firm believers in the Christian religion and
the truths of Divine revelation, as contained in the

Holy Scriptures, and as applied by the Spirit of God
in the secret of the heart, themselves differ as to some

less important particulars. Joseph Foster and myself
are members of the Society of Friends Michael
Gibbs a member of the Established Church of
        is
                                                                                                                           ;
188  DIVINE REVELATION.  [1818.

England ; but we all agree with the Church of Scot
land in the main truths of religion. We believe that
the true Church of Christ consists of members of all
visible churches, who, in the sincerity of their hearts,
are endeavoring to know and to perform the will of
God -- who are faithful to what is manifested to them

to be their duty. These will be finally accepted what

ever denomination they may have borne among men,
and will, in a glorified state, form part of that company

which no man can number, gathered from every nation,

kindred, tongue and people, which the Evangelist
John, in the visions of God, saw surrounding the

throne, and uniting in the universal hallelujah."
   He then proceeds to avow their firm belief in Divine

revelation, and by a series of arguments from physical
science, proves the just and wise government of God,
and the insufficiency of human reason to comprehend

infinity. Appealing to the characters which faith in
Christ had formed in all ages, he concludes that the
Christian dispensation is of Divine origin, and presses

it on the attention of all who heard him :--
   " This is the only principle upon which true happi

ness can be built; and therefore, in the education of

your dear children, we are especially anxious that
they should be trained up in a knowledge of, and
reverence for, the Holy Scriptures, and that their
tender minds should be imbued with the great truths
of revealed religion. But we must depend upon you
to second our efforts for their good, which will most
effectually be done by the powerful influence of a

pious example in yourselves; by firmness, tempered
1818.]       MEETS DR. CHALMERS.  189

with kindness, in repressing and discountenancing

every appearance of angry passions, every deviation

from truth and sincerity, and by teaching them the
importance of a due observance of the day appointed

for Divine worship. Then may we expect the blessing
of Heaven upon our great experiment; --then may
we, indeed, confidently hope, that your children will
become useful and honorable members of society at

large, and your greatest temporal comforts in your
declining years. The bonds of natural affection v. Ill
be strengthened by the principles of our holy religion;

and having honestly endeavored to put your beloved
offspring in the right way, you may descend to the
grave blessing and blessed, and lay down your heads

in peace."

   In the course of this journey William Allen spent

a few days at Glasgow, where he attended a meeting
of the Peace Society, held at Dr. Chalmers'. The
subject was discussed, whether they should go the
whole length with the London Committee as it regards
defensive war. " Dr. Chalmers seemed against
             it
Collins for
              ;I

                                                         a

                                                    I

                                                                                    it,
             gave my sentiments on the same side

as the latter, and had peace in doing so. They all

appeared to feel the force of the observations, and Dr

Chalmers promised to study the subject deeply."
   " In the evening we went by appointment to pay

another visit to Dr. Chalmers, and had much inter

esting conversation about the poor, etc.; told him
my plan for general investigation, which he seemed to

approve."                       magistrate, " an ex-

   After visiting James Ewing,
190   ARRIVES IN LONDON.                     [1818.

cellent man, warmly interested in the subject of pris

ons,  and who has paid great   attention to  the state of
the   poor," and Erskine, of  Mar, " a very
                                              benevolent

old gentleman, who gives away most of his income

in charity," and Jeffrey, the Editor of the Edinburgh

Review, and enlisting him in the prison cause, on

which he engaged to write an article if Mr. Allen

would furnish him with materials, which " interview
was particularly agreeable." He adds :-- " About five

o'clock I went to Dr. Brewster's, in Melville-street,

and met a large party there -- L. Horner, Pillan, of
the High School, Count Brenner, a very interesting

young German, etc. After dinner we had much

satisfactory conversation about schools and prison

dis"cinptlihne. --." Dr. Brewster came to breakfast with me at

the hotel ; about half-past ten Dr. Hoppe called, and

took me to see his lecture-room, which seems admir

ably contrived, and capable of holding several hundred

pupils ; in the apparatus room he has a considerable

number of very large closets, in which the apparatus

is nicely arranged for every lecture; and he has papers

for each lecture, with instructions to his assistant."

On the same evening they set off by mail, travelling

all night and the next day, and on the following night

slept at York. From thence they posted to Stamford,
and arrived the next day in London :-- a journey
which can now be accomplished in a few hours. The
result of his visit he thus states :--

   " The investigation which we have made at Lanark

has been very satisfactory, and I have had much peace
1818.]  HIS MIND AT EASE.                                                                       191

in the public opportunity I had with the work-people,

so that, though the journey home was rather fatiguing,

my mind was at ease. I begin to hope that even this

undertaking may be blessed, and that, perhaps, we
were permitted to enter into to prevent New Lanark
from becoming a seminary for infidels how thankful
shall be this the case "
I

        if

                      is
                                         1 it,

                                                                                             :
                    CHAPTER X.

JOURNEY TO NORWAY AND SWEDEN.

   IN a letter which Stephen Grellet addressed to Mr.
Allen, in February, 1818, he mentioned the deep
exercise of mind under which he had long labored, in

the prospect of religious service in Europe, particularly

in Russia. He had, at length, thought it right to

submit the subject to the judgment of his Monthly

Meeting, and though the matter was then in too early

a stage to enter much into detail respecting his views,

he was desirous, after the first public step was taken,

to convey the intelligence of                 himself, to this
                    It
"brother beloved."
                                        ; it,
                                             a
                    awakened no common degree

of sympathy in Mr. Allen's mind he seemed to have

an idea of the contents of the letter before he opened

and from that period there was reference, in his
it,
              it,arrangements, to the probability of accompanying

Stephen Grellet on his interesting tour. As this

would take him from his family, business and engage

ments, for many months, was a subject which re
                    it

quired the deepest consideration, and, to decide in
favor of the clearest conviction of duty. He, who

was in the habit of carrying the minor concerns of

life to his Father and God, did not fail to seek counsel

from on high, on this important and interesting busi-

                    (192)
1818.]  PREPARATION FOR THE JOURNEY.  193

ness. He shows us the workings of his soul in the
fol"lo2woitnhg.--stDaeteamr eSn.tsG, remllaedteisinarJurivlyed:--at Liverpool ; we
may expect him in London next week. Now comes
the trial ; but if my great Master will but condescend

Ito make the path of duty plain, whether it is to go or

Istay, I feel quite resigned, for know that can never

be truly happy but in doing or suffering His will;

and, if but favored with clearness that it is right to

make those sacrifices which will be necessary, in case
it seems my duty to accompany dear Stephen, it is all

I wish. I shall then leave my precious child, my dear

aged mother, with others who, by natural and spiritual

ties, are dear to me-- in confidence that they will be
supported and cared for by the Shepherd of Israel."

   The manner in which his great Master confirmed
his desires, he thus relates, in a review of a week,

during which Stephen Grellet was a visitor in his

house :--

  "A time of deep exercise of mind; the great enemy

appeared to be let loose upon me, but faith prevailed.

As the time of trial drew nearer and nearer the con

cern became heavier and heavier, and on Seventh-day

it seemed as if I must give up. On First-day evening

dear Mary, S. Grellet and I, went to dear R. Christy's,

where we had a religious opportunity never to be
forgotten. Divine love and power plentifully over

shadowed us, and melted us all in a remarkable

manner; no doubts remained; at the close I was en

gaged in supplication for my precious child, committing

her to the protection of our Heavenly Father."
   After that which he considered a satisfactory assur-
194  STARTS FOR STA VANG hK.  [1818

ance of the path of duty, he publicly communicated
his intention to accompany Stephen Grellet, and re
ceived from the members of his church sympathy and

confirmation.

   After obtaining introductions from the Swedish
Ambassador, from Count Lieven to his brother, to

Prince Galitzin and to the Russian Ambassador at

Stockholm, he went to Kensington Palace, at the re
quest of the Duke of Kent, to spend a short time
with him previous to his departure. On the next day,
August 4th, he accompanied the Duke and Duchess
of Kent and Prince Leopold to the Borough-road
School, and on the 8th he took leave of his " dear
aged mother," his "beloved child," "the family," and
" Rebecca Christy," his " precious sister in the un
changeable truth." With deep emotion, Stephen and
himself started in a post-chaise about seven o'clock in
the evening, took up their friend Joseph Foster at
Bow, who accompanied them to Harwich, while Enoch
Jacobson, a Norwegian, who was to be their fellow-
traveller, brought their baggage by coach. They
staid a night at Ipswich, with their friends, Richard
and Ann Alexander; Priscilla Gurney came all the
way from Norwich to meet them, and Thomas Clarkson
dined with them. After dinner they had a solemn
and affecting parting with their friends.

   They were bound for the port of Stavanger, in
Norway, but the wind proving contrary, they were
obliged to remain at Harwich until the 1 5th, when

they embarked on board the Frecling, not without

some apprehension that they might be forced to return.
This, however, did not prove to be the case, though
1818.]  DESCRIPTION OF STAVANGER.  195

at first they made very slow progress, and during part

of the voyage suffered much from the tossing of the
vessel. The wind continued contrary, and the voyage
was a very trying one, the vessel affording but little

accommodation ; but he was able to read and write,

and took many observations with his sextant, which,
with a telescope and other instruments, were his

travelling companions.
   How these good and holy men improved their

limited opportunity of usefulness on board the vessel
it will be instructive and pleasing to read :--

  I"After dinner we went upon deck, and sat in our

usual place by the companion ; read several chapters

in Isaiah, after which we sat in silence. I had some

conversation on religious subjects with the ship lads,
and also with the captain ; after tea we resumed our

places by the companion, when I again read in the

Scriptures, and at sunset we had a season of refresh
ment and comfort."

   "Eighth Month 2$th.--On going upon deck, this

morning, I discovered land at a distance; and a quarter

before eleven we took a pilot and his two sons on

board, and soon arrived at Stavanger.
   " Stavanger is situated at the head of an arm of the

sea; the population is estimated at about three thous
and; the houses are universally built of wood and

covered with tiles. Keiland, the son of one of tli;
principal inhabitants, came on board; he speaks En

glish very well, and I delivered to him our letters of

introduction; he was so kind as to expedite thj
examination of our baggage. The inn is a large quk-t

house, situated near the landing place, remarkably
196  CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.                                      [1818.

clean ; and, after our doleful imprisonment in the

vessel, this change is very grateful to our feelings.
   " The pilot expressed to Enoch a great anxiety to

purchase a Bible, and stated that the single copy

which they had among them had almost excited a

quarrel, so many wishing to possess                         that they
     it,
                                      it
                                                         it,
                                                       it
were, at last, obliged to decide by lot; was con

cluded to give the old pilot one, which he very grate

fully received; his son afterwards came down and

intreated permission to buy one, saying he had the

money for but as Norwegian Bibles are scarce with

us, and we had given one to his father, we gave him

a Testament, enjoining them both to read them to

their neighbors."
   " On the 26th we called upon the principal

magistrate, a sedate man, who has been judge for

twenty -six years, and had much conversation, through

Enoch, on several subjects, amongst the rest, on capital

punishment. He said, that in the district of Stavanger,

comprehending forty thousand inhabitants, in the

space of one hundred and forty geographical miles,

not one person had undergone capital punishment for

twenty-six years. This only inflicted for murder
     is
       is

                                           a
or high treason. The cases of theft, he says, may

generally be traced to idleness, and the average

number in that period only about six or seven per

year. For small offences, persons are imprisoned in

their own houses, upon their parole.

   "The Dean told us that out of five or six hundred

families in Stavanger, not more than fifty have Bible,

-- that the people are willing to subscribe and pay for

them, and some have actually paid, but they cannot
1818].   SCARCITY OF NORWEGIAN BIBLES.         197

get them from the so called Bible Society at Christiana.

We propose to attend to this subject when we go

there."

   " We went to dine with G. S. Keiland, who is Mayor

of the town, is very opulent, and owns about two-
thirds of the houses in Stavanger, at his country
house, about a mile out of town ; it stands upon a

commanding eminence, and his fine grounds and

plantations were formerly covered with heath and

stones, but now he has many fertile meadows with

good rich grass, and keeps about forty cows and
several horses; they are smaller than ours, have short
backs and are strong built. He had invited Judge

Lowold, Dean Storen and the young priest Lange, to

meet us.

   "We were cordially received by our host, who took

us by the hand and bade us welcome to his house

and to the country; he appears to have read much,
is a man of considerable information and has been in

England. I endeavored to excite a zeal in them to
promote useful associations, and I think we shall set

them to work on the Bible cause; there is such a

scarcity of Bibles in Norway that even Priest Lange

is obliged to borrow one for himself. Dean Storen

thought that if he had a thousand Bibles he could
dispose of them all, and even sell the greatest part of

them in three months, and it was finally agreed that

they should describe their wants in a letter to Stein-

kopff."
" 2()th. -- G. S. Keiland called, not, as he said, out
Iof compliment, but from affectionate regard.  told

him of some observations I had made yesterday upon
198  CROWDED MEETING FOR WORSHIP.  [1818.

the nature of the soil, and suggested the propriety of
allowing a certain portion of land to the poor people
of Stavanger; he said that he had actually made a
beginning, but the prejudices of the poor were such

that they could hardly be prevailed upon to adopt

anything new; he had, however, found one man, who

seemed to have some spirit for the thing; I told him
if only one could be brought to lead the way, others,

seeing his success, might be induced to follow. About

three o'clock we prepared to go to the afternoon

meeting of Friends. I was apprehensive that it would

be crowded ; curiosity having been excited by the
meeting in the morning. When we reached the place,
we found it rather difficult to get in; the room was

soon filled, and a great many were upon the stairs;

indeed, I was really afraid of some mischief from

squeezing, more than two hundred being in the room

-- most of them were standing. Stephen had a long
and satisfactory communication in ministry; after it
was over the people seemed desirous of shaking hands

with us.
   " G. S. Keiland sent his servant with a present for

the Bible Society of an old and scarce copy of the
Danish Bible, 1589, and the Old Testament in four

volumes, an ancient edition, which I am to forward.
I am particularly pleased with this circumstance, as

the acknowledgment which the Society must send
will open the door for correspondence and for the wide
diffusion of the Bible here.

  "A pious young man, a farmer, called and begged

to buy a Testament ; he was very earnest to pay for
1818.] MORALS AND STATISTICS OF STAVANGER.                                                                                             199

but we insisted on presenting him with one we
it,
                                                          a

                                                                                                                                    ;
have numerous applications of similar kind.

  "We learn that there are no manufactories at

Stavanger; some of the inhabitants are employed in

agriculture, and many of them support themselves by

fishing. A laborer can earn about three rix dollars

per day, equal to one shilling and sixpence of our

money. The women spin flax, which not grown in
is

         ;

           a
                              is
                                             is
                                                      is

                                                        it
the country, but imported, and they sometimes can

earn two rix dollars per day.       about two shillings
   " The average price of potatoes

per bushel the bread       made of oats and rye or

barley, a loaf of rye bread, bran and all in weighing

three pounds, their weight, eighteen ounces to the

pound, costs rix dollar, equal to sixpence.

  " It said that all the children of the poor are

educated, and the regulations of the country make                                                                                      it

absolutely necessary; for they cannot set up in busi

ness, or marry, or perform any acts as citizens, unless

they are able to read all must be examined and con
:

firmed when they are fifteen years of age, and for this

purpose they must be able to read. This statement

must obviously relate to towns and villages, as those

who are scattered in the country have not the means.

They have several small schools, but education not

well conducted. All poor schools are maintained by
                           ;

                              a
                                                                 is

                                                                        is
a tax upon the inhabitants, and are absolutely under

the control of the clergy  school might, however,

be supported by subscription, in which case the clergy

would have nothing to do with it.

"About sixty or seventy persons out of the whole

population, which, including the neighborhood,
200  VOYAGE TO CHRISTIANSAND.                           [1818.

about four thousand, are supported by charity. The

general state of morals is reported to be pretty good,
and the police is so well conducted, that if anything
were lost in the middle of the street, it would be soon

found and restored."

After taking an affectionate leave of these interesting

people on the 3ist, they were aroused between five

and six on the morning of the ist of October, by the

captain giving them notice that he was preparing to

get under weigh for Christiansand, to which they were

now bending their course. "The kind landlady,"

says Mr. Allen, "shed tears on parting, and the old

man, her husband, stood looking after us for a long

time after we set sail."

The voyage to Christiansand was very tedious, the

wind proving so boisterous and contrary that the

captain was obliged to put into the port of Tanangcr,
where they remained a few days. While on board

the vessel, Mr. Allen had nearly met with a very
serious accident :--
                       says,  " on  the  edge  of  the  stern,
  " I was seated," he

repeating Olney hymns, and watching the grand style

in which our little bark dashed through the tumbling

sea, when taking my eyes off for a moment to look at

my watch, there was a violent pitch which tossed me

backward into the boat which was lashed across the

stern. I was not at all hurt, but after this hint took a

lower station."
   " Christiansand is quite upon a level, and covers

much ground; the streets are very wide, and are

paved with rough stones and irregular flat slabs of
rock. The town is supported principally by commerce
1818.]               PRIVATE BENEVOLENCE.         201

in deals and fish. We saw an extensive timber-yard

where there were two saw-mills worked by water."

The letters of introduction with which they had

been furnished, procured them a very kind reception.

After inspecting the schools and prison, they dined

with P. Isaachson, the principal merchant in the place.

His family being absent, the company consisted

entirely of gentlemen, about twenty of whom were
               --
pre"seWnte  :
               were
                     first assembled  in a large  room, beauti

fully papered with colored representations of natural

scenery and figures very well executed. Here we

stood conversing in groups, and soon felt ourselves

quite at home and pleased with the order and hospi

tality which reigned. After dinner, the company, on

rising, according to the practice of the country, shook

hands and went down to the large room below, where

coffee was handed, and we conversed freely in little

parties. We had a satisfactory opportunity of in
forming the minds of the company upon several

important subjects. P. I. then conducted us to a large

establishment, founded by his late father for nine or

ten aged women, and for the free education of a num

ber of poor children. It is a very large wooden

building, and the inscription in Norwegian over the
door, imports, " Instruction for the young, and rest

for the aged." This is a fine example of private
benevolence. It appears that they are a more moral

people here than in most other parts of Europe, yet

they have suffered loss in this respect in consequence

of the war. The testimony of some of the principal

inhabitants showed that the children were very imper-
202  MODE OF TRAVELLING IN NORWAY.  [1818.

fectly educated, and that some were not receiving any
school instruction. The poor were a great burden,
and Isaachson said that they cost him more than all

the private expenses of his own family. A poor

family may claim support for each child they have
beyond two."

   On the nth, the travellers prepared to set out on

their arduous journey to Christiania, in the carriage
which they had brought from England, but found
considerable difficulty in arranging the harness to
suit it. The plan of travelling, in Norway, is to send
forward a man and horse, called the fore-boot, with

orders for horses at the different stations on the day's

journey. Each of the neighboring farmers is obliged,
in turn, to furnish a man and horse for posting. These

are bound to wait three hours, and if the traveller
does not arrive before the expiration of that period,

they are at liberty to return and to claim payment;
as the man must generally walk, it shows the usual
rate of posting in that country. The adjustments
were at length completed, and the horses, four in

number, were brought to draw together.
   The toil and exertion during this day's journey

were extreme; in some places they were compelled
to assist in pulling the carriage up the ascents, in
others to check the velocity of the descent, and the
whole day was occupied in travelling rather less than
twenty English miles. The Norwegian mile is equal
to seven English.

   Mr. Allen strained his knee in some of his efforts,

and this, with another day's exertion, and very little
food, made him feel much exhausted on their arrival
1818.]           THEIR PERILOUS SITUATION.             203

at Arendal, which they reached about half-past nine.

They then had to walk a considerable distance to the

inn, passing through narrow, steep, stony alleys, for
there was nothing, he says, deserving the name of

streets. Not having had any dinner for two days, it

is not surprising that they much relished some excel

lent mutton chops.
   Arendal is a great seaport, and very large vessels

ride near the shore. It is built upon rocks, and the

houses are erected just where they could find a place
for them; --the foundations of some are one hundred

feet above the tops of others.

On proceeding further through the country the

next day, Mr. Allen thus describes the perilous situa
                            placed: --
tion   in which  they were  terrible hill,  extremely  steep ;
      We came    to a most
   "

and when, with great exertion, we had got all the five

horses to act together for a few feet, we were obliged

to stop to let them rest, and block the wheels with

stones, till we got about half-way up. The road then

turned sharp round, but the turn being so short, the

fore wheel got into such a position that there was the

most imminent risk of going down the precipice,

even if the horses should be able to draw on, it seemed
as if we could not make any more way without peril.
We altered the position of the carriage a few inches

at a time, and succeeded at last, by literally putting

our shoulders to the wheel, to get round this dangerous

turn, and were favored to reach the top in safety after

an hour and a-half of unremitted exertion.

"One of our drivers is a steady intelligent man and

a schoolmaster. The plan for the country schools is
201  ITS GEOLOGICAL PECULIARITIES.  [1818.

to have a schoolmaster for the parish, who keeps

school for a week at one farm house, then a week at

the next, and so taking them in course, all the children

following from one house to another ; he is about a
year in making his round ; the most remote of the

children have only about three miles to go ; he had
no Testament, and was made happy in being presented
with one. Their Catechisms, etc., are the principal

books read in the schools."

   " i$th. -- Rose at twenty minutes past four; we have

taken six horses for this stage. A poor sailor, a Dane,

born at Copenhagen, and a prisoner, yet going alone
to Laurvig to prison to take his trial for deserting

from a gun boat, about five years ago, begged to go
with us for subsistence by the way; he speaks English,
and we took him along with us. The stations are

almost always single houses.
   " What a country Norway is for a geologist ! it

seems made of rocks, which rise from three to five

hundred feet, and follow each other in uninterrupted
succession, like waves of the sea, in the whole course,
from Stavanger to Christiania. There are granites of all

sorts, including gneiss, and by the coast huge masses

of solid felspar, with very little mixture of anything
else; we have seen whole rocks of milk-white quartz.
John Julien, of Abo, gave me a specimen of the new

alkali, lithia, which he made himself; it was first de

tected in the petalite, and afterwards found more abun
dantly in the spodumenc ; both minerals occur in the

mine, Uto, in Sweden, in the province of Sudermania.
   " From Ode Garten we were obliged to have seven

horses -- it seemed impossible to make all the horses
1818.]  PERILS OF TRAVELLING.  205

draw together, and after we had proceeded three miles
we came to a terrible steep hill, and the road boggy

with Joose stones ; we had a person stationed at each

wheel, to help to push when the horses made an effort

and put stones to block when they began to flag ; but
with our utmost exertions we often did not gain an

inch ; in this way we worked for several hours, but as

we approached the top the ascent became steeper, and

we could not possibly proceed further. It was in vain
to think of sending for horses, as in these deserts the

persons who furnish them often live miles apart, and
it generally takes four hours to collect them at a sta

tion. It was now eight o'clock, and getting quite

dark ; we had had no dinner, and were faint and

exhausted ; my left knee was more strained by my

efforts at the wheel, so that it hurt me much when I

walked, and my clothes were covered with dust and

dirt. It was now plain that we must encamp here for
the night. We had some bread and cheese, and some
hung beef, which our kind friend Ann Alexander had
provided for us at Ipswich. We sent one of the men

forward on horseback to order six horses to be brought

to us by four o'clock in the morning, and our sailor,
with one of the men, to a house about two miles off to

forage, discharging the rest, who were very glad to go

home. Dear Stephen and I were now left quite alone

upon one of the hills of Norway ; we, however, felt
tranquil, resolving to make the best of it. When
Enoch and the sailor returned, they brought some

milk, boiled eggs, and potatoes; we then collected

wood, and prepared to make a fire among the great

blocks of granite by the road side. It was very cold,
200                     A COMFORTABLE NIGHT'S REST.             [1818.

my feet were wet, and I think I never felt a fire more

acceptable ; with a pole for a seat, we took out our

plates, and prepared our repast. Nothing can exceed
dear Stephen's kindness and care of me ; but my mind

is so constituted, that unless I can see him better off

than myself, this attention rather distresses me. Dear

Enoch waits upon us with filial attention, and we

mutually endeavor to make one another comfortable.

About half-past nine the moon rose in a clear sky,

and after supper I repeated some poetry to them --

amongst the rest, Pope's ' Universal Prayer,' Prior's

' Charity,' and Addison's ' How are Thy servants blest,

0 Lord,' etc. Stephen and I got into the carriage

and slept, or rather dozed for some hours ; Enoch, the

sailor, and the lad, lay down by the fire. At break of
day I heard the trampling of the horses, and whilst

they were harnessing we boiled our kettle, made some

1tea in                 and all had an excellent breakfast. The

    ifhorses were far superior to those which had left us in

our present position, and after few vigorous effortstl it,
                          is a
                       ethey drew the carriage to the top of the hill, for which
  felt very thankful. The hill called Torne-Bakkin,

or Thornehill. As we proceeded, the roads were so

bad, and                  hills so desperate, thought might be
                          I                                 it

a providence that we had been stopped where we were,

for we had arrived at the top of the hill, we might

have been tempted to try in the dark to reach our

station, and have met with a very serious accident."

After passing a ferry to Brevig, they proceeded by

water to Helgcerauen, and then by land to Laurvig.

     a considerable seaport; the streets are very quiet,
It

     is

                                                         ;

                                         it
                                                  is
without traffic or shops                                    supported by shipping
1818.]          ARRIVES AT CHRISTJANIA.                 207

and iron works, where about one hundred persons are

employed. Like all the other towns the houses are

built of wood.

On the 1 8th they started with five horses on excel

lent roads. Snow-ploughs were kept at the different

stations to clear the roads for the sledges. They slept

at Hohnestrand, a seaport, and one of the largest towns

in Norway. The next day, as they required only four

horses, Enoch drove, and made an excellent coach

man, and at a little after twelve they arrived at a large

place called Drammen, where they staid over the Sab

bath. At two o'clock they held their meeting as

usual, and about fifty persons, with the landlord and

landlady, attended, and Enoch         interpreted admirably.
   " 2 1 st. -- We started with five  good horses ; the pros

pect of the country is very pretty ; the arm of the sea,

with its little islands, the ridges of rocks covered with

pines, the farm houses in various directions, with the

pastures and the autumnal tints of the trees, make a

fine landscape ; though it wants that softness which

we admire in England. About two o'clock we arrived

at Christiania; it contains about ten thousand inhab''-

tants; the houses are built of brick, and plastered, the

streets are broad and airy, and the pavement round

stones. There are large, square, wooden cisterns in

the middle of the principal streets, into which a foun

tain of clear water is always running; they have excel

lent wharves for shipping, and large storehouses, built

of logs ; vast quantities of deals are stacked up along

the   water side, ready to be shipped."   called  upon  us;

   "  22d.-- In the evening Otto Collett

he is in the prime of life, with frank, open manners ;
208  INTERVIEW WITH N. TRESCHOW.  [1818.

he says that the poor of Christiania are distributed
among the neighboring farmers --one, two, or three to
each, who give them food and clothing for any little
service they may be capable of performing, and the
parish officers are bound to see that they are not over

worked or ill-treated. I should think this plan liable

to great abuse, and that the burden lies too heavy

upon the farmers.
   " We afterwards waited upon N. Treschow, who is

Counsellor of State, and one of the principal members

of the government here. I find he is the person whose

office it is to report to Stockholm respecting our

Friends. I showed him my list of queries on subjects

connected with education, the state of the poor, the
morals of the country, etc., with which he seemed

pleased, and said that information on all these points
regularly came to his office ; and he offered to give

me answers for all Norway, which I gratefully accepted.

We are so much pleased with this interview, that we
think it would fully compensate us for coming to

Christiania."

   " 2fth. --We were engaged to dine with our friend
Collett to-day, at his country seat, about two miles
distant; and met N. Treschow; he was dressed in full

 uniform, and many others also were covered with gold
lace and stars; among them was Count Mornen, the

principal Governor, who is called Stadtholder, a very
sedate elderly man. The company, consisting of

 twenty-six, seemed to comprise the principal persons
 of the place. The room was of polygonal form, and

we sat at the largest round table I have ever seen ; it

 was several yards in diameter ; the dinner was carried
1818.]  SINGULAR IMPRISONMENT.  209

round by several men servants. After about two

hours the company rose, shook hands, and retired

into the other rooms ; here I had a good opportunity

for conversation with the company, and with a worthy
widow, aunt to our host. She and her nephew quite
insisted upon our leaving the inn, and taking up our
quarters with them, saying that we should do just the

same as if we were at home; we had some difficulty

in excusing ourselves, but compounded by promising
to dine with them, by themselves, to-morrow. We

returned to our inn, thankful in believing that this
visit had been of service."

   " 26th.-- We waited on the Governor, according to
appointment, and were very kindly received : he sent
one of his officers with us to the castle, and to the
house of correction. In the latter we were shocked

to find about twenty young persons confined, not for
any crime, but merely because they had neglected to
learn their catechism, and consequently could not be
confirmed by the priest; thus they were sent, literally
and avowedly, to be prepared for confirmation, to a
place where they were confined with felons and crimi

nals of all descriptions. Some amongst them were
from twenty to thirty years of age. The officers who

accompanied us joined in expressing their abhorrence
of this measure; but in this country such is the sway
of the clergy, that a person not confirmed is almost
considered an outlaw. We stated our feelings very
freely, and have reason to think that the matter will
be "taInketnheupp.rison hospitals, men and women are mixed
together without any regard to feelings of delicacy.
210  LEAVING CHRISTIANIA.  [i»18.

The officers, as well as ourselves, were shocked at this

also, and said they never before knew that such was

the practice.
   " Professors Hersleb and Stennison came to converse

with us on the subject of the Bible Society here ; we

find they refuse to keep the funds separate from those
designed for the supply of catechisms ; and the sub
scribers in Norway complain that what they gave for
Bibles was spent in printing catechisms. The priests
seem afraid of the Scriptures being circulated, unac
companicd by their explanations and conjectures.

   " I like what I have seen of the Norwegian charac

ter; there is much frankness in it; it seems, in many

respects, to resemble the English. I should think-

that, in general, they were an honest simple-hearted
people, and they are remarkable for their hospitality.
Among the higher classes there appears to be a ten
 dency to scepticism, and among the lower to bigotry."

    " 28th. -- Preparing to leave Christiania. Tver Steen,
 a superintendent of the roads, has been of essential

 service in making out our route to Stockholm, with a
 list of what is to be paid; he has also provided us with
 a coachman ; indeed, both he and Otto Collett have
 studied how they could be most useful, and their kind

 assistance has been a real help to us."
    The travellers now proceeded with good roads, and

 through a country in many parts resembling Switzer

 land. As they advanced they found cultivation in

 creasing, and the cattle were finer and more numerous.

 Some of the pine forests bore extensive traces of the
 ravages of fire occasioned during the struggle with
1818.]       ENTERS SWEDEN.                    211

Sweden in 1814, when some persons set fire to the

woods, and many miles of valuable firs were destroyed.
   " On the 3Oth we came to the division between

Norway and Sweden ; it is merely a path between the

pines, in the forest, except that there is a circular pile

of rough masonry, about five feet high and six feet in

diameter. We afterwards arrived at a great forest of

pines, far superior to those of Norway ; some of them
of large size, and the stems are clean and without

branches for thirty or forty feet from the ground ; the

a
      a
                 is,

                    I

                                                                              is

                                                                                                     a
Norway pine  however, closer grained, and better

fitted for sash frames. We begin to see the white rein

deer moss."

   Tenth Month 2d.-- We have had several fine views

of lakes to day. In some of the forests there

mixture of other trees with the pine, and though they
have lost their verdure, the varied hues of the foliage

are still more beautiful. Some whole trees are of a

golden yellow, others all shades of orange, and the ash

trees are blood red.  never before saw such rich

autumnal tints.
   " The houses we generally meet with in the country

have poor appearance, only one story high, built of

logs just squared enough to lay one upon another,

and in some instances the joints are filled up with

moss.

"We have travelled about fifty-six miles today,

and at this station, Artorp, are four hundred and

ninety-two miles from Christiania."

  " jd. -- We had been obliged to pay so large a

deposit for our carriage on the frontier, that we had

exhausted so much of our Swedish money as not to
212  IN DIFFICULTY FOR MONEY.  [1818.

                                                                                                     ·

have enough to carry us through another day, much
less to Stockholm. We had Norway money, and a
few guineas, with two one-pound Bank of England

notes, so at Orebroe I sallied forth with Enoch, though
we did not know a creature in the place. It being

market day, the square was thronged with people.
We went to a large shop in which they seemed to sell
everything from linen and woolen down to rat-traps,
oil, salt, etc. ; the head of the concern was out, so we
could do nothing here. We then went to another

large shopkeeper in the market place ; his shop was

literally thronged with customers from the country;
there were many shopmen, and all busy. However,

at length we found that the master was at home, and
desiring to see him, the flap of the counter was lifted up,
and wedging our way through the people, we were shown
into the counting-house. He received us with civility,
and Enoch explained our pitiful case ; but we again found

that our Norway money was not available. I desired

Enoch to tell him that we had gold which we would
deposit with him as security for any Swedish money

he might advance, and if he sent to his correspondent

at Stockholm, we would repay the money and take it
up there ; but all would not do, and we civilly took

our leave and returned to the inn. I had little doubt,

however, of ultimate success, and again taking Enoch
with me to the market place, repeated my visit to the
person upon whom we first called. After sufficient
explanation he very kindly consented to make an

advance upon the five guineas and the two one-pound
notes, which he said he would send to his correspond
ent at Stockholm, where we might repay the money
1818.]      REACHES STOCKHOLM.  213

and take them up. We were very grateful for this

deliverance, and with many thanks took our leave and

returned to the inn, where dear Stephen was anxiously

waiting the result."
   " On the 5th we reached Stockholm between one

and two, and on arriving at the gate, were slightly
questioned and suffered to pass. We then proceeded

a considerable distance to the English hotel, which is

kept by a widow named Johnstone, and is a large

quiet house.

   " As soon as we had settled about our apartments,
and arranged our things, I went to wait upon Count

Engestrom, with the letter from Count Mocrnen, and

that from their ambassador in London, and dear

Stephen explained the nature of our visit, with which
he seemed well satisfied. He said the King had been

expecting us for some time ; that he was now in the

country, but would return to Stockholm in a few days,

when the Count promised to inform him of our arrival,
and offered his services if we wished for an interview.

We gladly accepted his kindness on this point. We

came back with thankful hearts that the way was so

far opening before us. I had three letters, one from

my beloved child, one from my dear sister, Anna

Hanbury, and one from dear John Barry. The details

in them were very cordial to my feelings. I am anxious

about my beloved mother in the approach of this cold

season. I love her more than I can express ; but

though absent in body, we are at times sweetly united

in spirit.  ·

"Stockholm is a large place and contains ninety

thousand inhabitants ; the principal street is narrow
214  PHILLIPSEN'S SCHOOLS.    [1818.

and quite straight for more than a mile; there are no

foot paths, and the pavement, which is round stones,
is very unpleasant to walk upon. The houses are
generally three or four stories high, and are built of

brick and plastered. The shops are very similar to
those in the common streets of Paris. George Fox,

the English Consul, called and offered his services."
   "8th. -- We went by appointment to Herman T.

Phillipsen, who, I find, has been engaged in his philan

thropic labors about seven years. His wife is an

amiable woman, and quite seconds him ; indeed she

seems as busy in the female department as our English

ladies. They have a handsome house, with a spacious

garden, at the bottom of which is a large building

appropriated to schools, where two hundred and fifty
children are taught, sixty of them at his expense. The

children make their own clothes, the wool and flax

being brought into the house and manufactured into

garments. I was pleased to see the New Testament,

and to observe that the girls were questioned, as in

our own schools. Many of the boys were employed

as tailors, and others were learning to make shoes;

the boys work for the girls, and the girls for the boys.

Phillipsen's object that the children should learn to
     is,
do everything for themselves, in the plainest and mostis a

useful way. This sight was truly a feast to us."

   After inspecting an Orphan Asylum very similar to
the former, Mr. A. says, --

   " Our kind friend took us to large establishment,

in which about three hundred and fifty children and

infants are boarded. There    a large gymnasium,

where the boys were exercising with wonderful agility;
1818.]  BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.  215

but the part appropriated to infants exhibited a striking
appearance of comfort. The little sheets on the cots

were beautifully white-- the nurses very respectable,

good-looking young women. A bed for one of them

is placed behind every two little beds, that they may
take charge of the babies during the night. Children

may remain till they are fourteen, when, if their parents

do not provide for them, they are placed out by the
Board. The charitable institutions here amount to

one hundred and seventeen.

   "The poor-house seemed to be comfortable for

persons in a situation to require it. They have all

separate beds except the married persons. Several
of the inmates were at work; all are allowed to receive
their own earnings. The Retreat for poor citizens
who have been housekeepers, but are now in reduced
circumstances, is in a fine situation at the outskirts of

the town, and has a large garden attached to it. It
was formerly the country-house of a rich merchant,

who left it for this express purpose. There are three
or four persons in some of the rooms, in others only

one, and in one room we saw some elegant paintings.
The total number in' the institution is thirty-six. The

cloth was laid in the dining-room, with a napkin and
a silver spoon by each plate. Every person, on coming
in, must bring with him a silver spoon, six napkin*,

and some shirts; if he is too poor to furnish them, he

is supplied by the parish, or by some other means.
There is a boat kept for them to amuse themselves on

the water."

   " ioth. --The institution for the widows of citizens
is a large substantial mansion. The number in the
216  VISITS LORD STRANGFORD.                            [1818.

house is seventy- three. We saw one very respectable
person about ninety-six years of age. She was alone,

reading in her psalm book, and appeared in the full
possession of her faculties. She was in excellent

spirits-- seemed quite glad to see us,--and when I

shook hands with her, put my hands to her lips, say

ing she wished us to experience the consolation she
felt in a sense of the goodness of the Lord. It was

really quite refreshing to perceive the state of her
mind. On the cloth, which was laid for dinner, there

was a bright pewter soup-plate, with another under
laid for each person. From very large Bible in the
                      a
                                                              it,

dining-room, after dinner, one read aloud to the rest.

The clothing of all was very neat and respectable. We

now took leave of our friend Phillipsen and went to

Belle Vue, about two miles from Stockholm, to call

upon the British Ambassador, Lord Strangford, but

he was gone to town to meet us. We then went to

the town-house, where Lord Strangford received us

with great kindness.  find that he the intimate
                      I

                                                    is

friend of Lord Sidmouth. He invited us to dine with

him, but we excused ourselves on account of our en

gagements, and the shortness of our stay. He gives
an excellent character of the honesty of the Swedes."

   " ijth. -- We were introduced by our kind friend, C.

Hughes, the American Ambassador, to General de

Suchteln, the Russian Ambassador, a fine old man,

who received us very kindly. He has a valuable

library, consisting of several thousand volumes,

amongst which are many scarce works, and a manu

script of the four gospels, written on vellum, and more

than one thousand years old. Very fine paintings,
1818.]  LIBERALITY OF A SWEDE.  217

also, by the first artists -- one, in particular, was a most
exquisite performance. The subject was our Lord
conversing with Nicodemus by night, and the light
of the lamp was so exactly imitated, that the flame

appeared to be actually quivering."
   The Count and Countess Engestrom invited them

to dinner, where they met a deeply interesting party,

and on the next day they went with Phillipsen, Dr.

Weigel, the King's physician, and Count Rosenbold,
"a pious valuable character, possessing a good deal
of religious tenderness," to inspect the Hospital, which
is a spacious, airy building, very neat and clean. The
poor need no tickets of recommendation, but present
themselves, and are taken in at the discretion of the

physician or surgeon, as there is room. There is a

Bible in each room, and a Testament for each bed.

This hospital, as well as other public charities, about

eight years ago were so badly managed people would
not subscribe to them ; but, by the care of Phillipsen
and other benevolent characters, they are now brought
into excellent order ; and such is the public confidence
reposed in Phillipsen, that large sums of money are

put into his hands for these objects. One person, who
spends only five hundred banco dollars per annum

npon himself and family, or about sixty-two pounds
sterling, gave him, not long ago, one hundred thousand
dollars! He is much respected by the King, but has
uniformly declined to accept any order of distinction.

   "We went to Danvig, about two miles distant,
where there is a hospital for the insane. A mild

treatment is pursued with the lunatics, who are em

ployed where it is practicable, and they are assembled,
218 INTERVIEW WITH THE KING. [1818.

for about an hour every day, for prayer and religious

reading. It is remarkable that, during this time, they

are quite silent, but immediately after it is over they

be"giOnnthtehier  usual incoherent talking."      Ambassa
                  1$th we dined with the Russian

dor, General de Suchteln, where we met a large and

very pleasant party. Three o'clock is the usual dinner

hour here, and it is the practice for the company to

assemble about half an hour before. The General is

a mild, amiable old man; he keeps an open table

every day for his friends, and dinner time being fixed,

they come without ceremony, just when they like.

The Austrian and Danish Ambassadors were there,

and a person high in authority in the Swedish Gov

ernment."

   " 22d. -- Count Engestrom sent a note to say that
the King would receive us at six o'clock this evening.
We requested to be allowed a private audience, and
the King kindly appointed the interview at his country-

house at Rosenthal.
   " On arriving at the palace, we sent in our cards to

Count Engestrom, who conducted us into an elegant

little private apartment, where he begged us to sit

down, and leaving us for a few minutes, returned with

the King, who was dressed in military uniform, with

stars and crosses ; he has a very fine countenance,
indicating mind and benevolence, and kindly took us

by the hand. Stephen explained to him the motives

which had induced us to visit his kingdom, and we

soon entered into free conversation. He seemed quite
one with us on the subject of capital punishment, and
said that he had himself abolished the practice of flog-
1818.]             ADDRESSES THE KING.  219

ging. After standing about a quarter of an hour, he

inquired whether we should stay two or three days

longer, and finding that this was the case, said he
should like to see us again the day after to-morrow,
when he could spare an hour or more. He took leave
of us, not formally, but with kindness and even affec
tion. We returned to our inn under a feeling of

reverent thankfulness that our great Master thus con

tinued to open the way before us."
   Count Engestrom sent Mr. Allen, a note appointing

the 25th, at eight o'clock in the evening, for a second
interview with the King. The interval between these

visits was employed in preparing a memorial to be

presented to his Majesty. It was of a comprehensive
character, embracing the subject of the education of
the poor, and the best means of improving their moral
and physical state, with suggestions on the subject of
prison discipline. But Mr. Allen was anxious to
prepare an address to the King of a more personal
character, such as Kings seldom read. With what

religious solemnity it was written the following extract

will show: --

  " I felt it a very important business and a religious
duty ; I shut myself up in my own room, and with

solemn feelings, mentally craved assistance in the per
formance of and my petition was assuredly granted.
        it
" To CHARLES JOHN, KING OF SWEDEN AND NORWAY, &c.it,

           " MAY IT PLEASE THE K1NG,
   " Under, we humbly trust, a degree of that gospel
love which wishes the eternal well being of all, we

have felt our duty to pass through thy dominions,
220           LIBERTY OF CONSCIENCE.            [1818.

on our way to other countries, and to salute those

everywhere    who we believe love  our   Lord   Jesus Christ
in sincerity                        the   form   of religion
              --whatever may be

which they may profess ; for we know no distinction
of sect or party, believing that the true church is com

posed of individuals of all sects and denominations,

who are faithfully endeavoring to know and to perform

the Divine will concerning them; these, wherever

scattered, are united in one head, even Christ, and in

the fellowship of His gospel feel that they all are

brethren.

   " We are deeply convinced that, in proportion as

the benign spirit of the gospel is submitted to in the

hearts of men universally it will lead to order, to sub

ordination, and to peace in the earth ; for, proceeding
from the source of infinite love, it produces nothing

but good-will towards the whole human family -- it

teaches charity for those who differ from us; and

accordingly, the true church has been under persecu

tion at times from the earliest ages, but has never per

secuted.
   " We have been particularly gratified in being in

formed of thy disposition to grant liberty of conscience

and indulgence to religious scruples ; for as every man
must give account of himself unto God, he is bound

to perform worship in the manner which he is con

vinced, in his own mind, is most acceptable in the

Divine sight ; and we take the liberty to solicit thy
kind protection of those who, though they may differ

in sentiment from the religion of the country, yet, by

their lives and conduct, give proof that their only
1818.] THE HAPPINESS OF RULERS DESCRIBED.  221

object is to preserve a conscience void of offence
toward God and toward men. It is by concentrating

all the talent and all the good feeling which exist in
the body of the people, and directing it to one object--

the general good, that nations become strong ; and we
are sure, with thy enlightened mind, it is not necessary
for us to dwell on the happy effects produced by a free
toleration, in matters of religion, in those countries in
which it is enjoyed.

   " In reflecting upon the cares and difficulties which

must necessarily attend the high station in which it

has pleased Divine Providence to place thee as King
of these realms, we have felt our minds engaged, in

affectionate sympathy, earnestly to recommend thee
to rely on that grace and good Spirit which, as it is
believed in and followed, will render us always accept
able in the Divine sight. This, O King, would assist

and support thee more powerfully than any mere
human means, and make thee a happy instrument to
forward that great work which the Almighty has in
the earth, and which at the present day is so conspicu
ously going on in different nations in a variety of ways,

but tending towards the same glorious object--the
advancement and exaltation of the Redeemer's king
dom. Thus would thy throne be established in

righteousness, supported by the hearts and affections

of all the wise and good. --' For them who honor me,

will I honor,' saith the Lord !

   " That He, who has so signally made the way
before thee, may conduct thee by His providence,
bless all thy virtuous exertions for the good of thy
222 SECOND INTERVIEW WITH THE KING. [1818.

people, and finally receive thee into His everlasting

rest, is the earnest desire of
" Thy sincere and respectful friends,
                                "
                                "  STEPHEN  GRELLET,
                                            ALLEN."
                                   WILLIAM
" In the evening we went to the palace, and were

conducted to a large room, magnificently lighted,

where a company was assembled, amongst whom

were several ladies; passing through, we at length

reached a neat little room, with a long writing table,

which is the King's private cabinet. He soon came

in, and received us very kindly, desiring us to take

chairs. Count Engestrom was the only person pres

ent, as before, and we entered into free conversation.

The King told us a great deal about the state of Nor

way, and what he had done for that country, regretting

that there were some things in their old constitution

which were very hurtful ; he said the peasants were

not represented in their government, etc. We told
him that we had prepared an address, which, if he

pleased, S. G. would read ; to this he readily assented,
and appeared much gratified and affected by it. He

remarked that the warrior who sought for glory, and

those whose objects were to aggrandize themselves in

the world, had their gratification in things external and

transitory, while those who went about doi'ng good,

enduring fatigues, and submitting to many privations

and difficulties for that purpose, had a much richer
reward in the inward satisfaction of their own minds.

We spoke of the Friends in Norway, and he told
us that the affair of marriage had been before the

council, and it was concluded that, provided it was
1818.]  CONDESCENSION OF THE KING.                                                 223

performed after the manner of Friends, and registered,

it should be lawful, and that he would protect not only

the Friends there at present, but those who might join

them in future. He said, ' Your Friends cannot avenge
themselves, --all that their principles permit
a                                                                                  pos

                   ;

                  a
                                                                              is,

                                                          if
sible, to parry the blows which may be aimed at them,

but they cannot otherwise defend themselves; they,

therefore, have double claim to protection,' and this,

he assured us, they should have. We were quite at
our ease, and way opened to tell the King that one of

our Friends, residing at Christiania, who had accom

panied us here, and been very useful as an interpreter,
had great desire to see him. He ordered him to be

sent for directly, and Enoch Jdcobson was, at length,
brought in the King received him very graciously,

and spoke kindly and familiarly to him, Count Enge-
strom interpreting. We then presented the King with

some books, which he received with marked satisfac

tion, and regretted that his son was not present. The

conference lasted above an hour, when we took leave.

While was holding his hand, in the love which felt
II

                           :

                         It
                                                  I
for him, expressed my desire that the Lord would

bless and preserve him.  seemed to go to his heart,
and he presented his cheek for me to kiss-- first one,

then the other he took the same affectionate leave of

dear Stephen and also of Enoch, and commended

himself to our prayers. This was, indeed, the crown

to our labors in this place. Here, as at Rosenthal,

we felt the precious influence of that power, which in

every place had set an open door before us, and weis

could in deep humility say, 'It the Lord's doing,

and marvellous in our eyes.' "
a is                      CHAPTER XI.a                        it it,

                          VISIT TO ST. PETERSBURG.it

       Two days after the interesting interview with the:;
    King of Sweden, our travellers entered a vessel bound
    to Abo, on their way to St. Petersburg. Mr. Allena
    says they put up at " the Society's Inn ;" and thus
    describes the town :--

       " The houses at Abo are low, built of wood, and

    generally painted red. A river runs through which

       only navigable about mile farther, on account of
       fall. The streets are rather narrow, and paved in
    the same way as at Stockholm, which makes very
    uncomfortable in walking. After passing the bridge,
    some of the houses are plastered. The poor live on
    peas, potatoes, bread and fish. There was a great
    dance at our inn this evening, though was First-day.
    We have been much pained at several things in this
    house."
       In the castle, forty prisoners for the province, con
    taining population of 200,000, were confined after
    sentence, with some who were untried. Some, for
    murder committed under very aggravated circum
    stances, were loaded with manacles, chains, and
    collars many were heavily ironed and one man had
    an iron hoop over his head from which a bell was

    suspended. A visit to this prison deeply affected

                                                         (224)
1818.] DINES WITH THE ARCHBISHOP OF ABO.  225

Mr. Allen, and forced from his benevolent spirit the
exclamation :--"Oh, how is it to be desired that a com

mittee could be formed to visit these outcasts, and try
to bring them to a sense of their condition !" In most

of the places he passed through he heard the same
general complaint of the demoralization of the poor,
and of the increase of crime in consequence of war
and the use of strong liquors. " Never," he observes,
"was the connection of cause and effect more striking."

   The Governor won his heart by an exhibition of a
very choice cabinet of minerals, some of which were
entirely new to him. After dining with him, and
making exchanges of duplicates, they went to attend
a meeting of the Religious Tract Society. The Arch

bishop and several priests were present, and much

pleased that the strangers had accepted the primate's

invitation to their meeting. It consisted, however, of

only about thirty persons, and was opened by singing
a psalm, standing. The business was then proceeded

with, and that which in England would be considered

a very singular motion was passed, --" that females
might become members of the society." After wor
ship, by themselves, on the Sabbath, they went with

Dr. Haartman, to dine with the Archbishop, who

received them very cordially, and introduced them to
his wife and family, some of his clergy, to Ignatius
who read the report at the tract meeting, to the Pro
fessor of Oriental languages, and to several school
men, who wore their crosses and different orders. Mr.
Allen thus describes the meal, and its improvement :

   " At dinner the Archbishop placed Stephen on one

side of himself, and me on the other, and we had much
226                    TRAVELLING IN FINLAND.  [1818.

serious conversation. Before we sat down, they all

made a solemn pause, standing, no one uttering a

word. On rising after dinner, there was another

pause, when Stephen advanced a step or two, and in

a very delicate and suitable manner, sweetly addressed

them in a few words, which seemed to be well accepted,

a good feeling prevailed throughout ; and after retiring

to the next room to take coffee, the Archbishop

seemed to be more and more interested in the conver

sation. He fully assented to the great truth that the

ceremonies in religion, and even what they call the

ordinances, are nothing compared with the living sub

stance. His wife also was very kind and respectful,
and we parted under a mutual feeling of regard and

esteem."

   " Eleventh Month 2d. -- After some delay about the

horses, we set off, with our man Peter as coachman.

They now measure by Russian versts, and a verst is

just about three-fourths of an English mile. The

travelling in this country beyond all comparison,
                       ;

                            is,
                                                 is
                                                                a
better than in Norway, and cheaper than in any part
of the world we have yet visited. We are not obliged

to send on a fore boot, the horses being always ready.

   "The road from Abo to Petersburg on the whole

good, and very frequently runs through extensive

forests of pine and birch and, for more than hun

dred miles together, huge single blocks of red granite

are scattered about on each side of the road. Tlie

wonder how they could come there, for the country
is
                a is,
almost dead level, and some of them are as large

as a small house.      soon began to remark, that in
                       I

                                                a
                                                                                      a
many of these blocks there was tendency towards
1818.]  VISITS PRISONS, ETC.                                                                   227

regular geometrical figure, and this was abundantly     ;
confirmed as we proceeded ; a number of these con
sisted of a prism terminated by a pyramid, and on one                                  it it,
of the pyramids I distinctly made out six faces.
Many of these rocks are decomposing fast."

    On the 4th they reached Helsingfort, a town con

taining about five thousand inhabitants. It was burnt

down when the Russians took possession of but the

Emperor Alexander having ascertained the amount
of the losses of each individual, indemnified them all,

upon condition that the houses should be rebuilt of
stone or brick, and upon a certain plan. He has
already caused to be paid one million six hundred
thousand roubles, independently of what has been
expended for public buildings. Great improvements

were in progress, as the Emperor intended for the

seat of government in Finland. The Councillor of
State, D'Ehrenstrom, who had "a clear head and

right conception of things," showed them the plan of

improvement for the new buildings, and expressed

himself anxious for any help or information the

strangers could give him while Count Hayden, to
whom the Governor- General of Finland had given
them a letter of introduction, sent his aide de-camp to

show them the prison, hospitals, and public buildings.

At dinner with the latter, his "eldest daughter Mary

reminded him of his own dear child." The convcr
sation was of the most useful kind, relative to tlv-
establishment of schools, etc., and when they left, th-;

Count accompanied them to the waterside, where they
found his own barge, manned with three pair of oars,

ready to take them back to Helsingfort.
228  TREATMENT OF PRISONERS.  [1818.

   Mr. Allen's description of the treatment of prisoners
here is very affecting :-- " The prison was a trying and
heart-sickening scene; most of the men were ironed,
and one man had a great weight of iron upon his legs,

an iron belt round his middle, and an iron collar round

his neck, with a projecting piece eight or nine inches
long, with chains beside. We could not help express
ing to the gentleman who accompanied us, our strong

disapprobation of this barbarous mode of securing
prisoners. The delay of justice is so great that, by

Sandman's account, a prisoner sometimes is in prison

two years, and often in irons, before his case is decided.
None of the persons here seem to have, the least idea
of a rational and Christian system of. prison discipline,
and look upon the reformation of culprits as a thing

next to impossible."
   From Helsingfort they pursued their journey to

Fredericksham, and, when clear of the houses, the

country seemed all rock. The stations were often

very poor, and the travellers were obliged to dine in

the carriage. "At Fredericksham," Mr. Allen says,

"We could not avoid dining with the Commandant,

where we met a large company, many of whom were
young officers. On Stephen remarking pleasantly to
Colonel Taraschoff that we were men of peace, he,
smiling, took off his sword, and put it in the corner
of the room, and his example was followed by the
officers round him. The freedom, openness, and hos

pitality we experienced, were very remarkable.

   "p/A.--We started at six o'clock, five horses as
usual. The country about Fredericksham is open,
and there is much water communication with the Gulf
1818.]  APPEARANCE OF THE PEASANTS.  229

of Finland. About nine we arrived at the station

Pytterlax, a filthy dirty house, but here we must
breakfast. There was a cock crowing upon the table
in the midst of the dirt; we however found another
part of the premises rather more decent, and took our
breakfast there standing ; we had brought our bread
and tea with us.

   " Some peasants are generally in attendance at the

stations ; they wear dirty sheepskin jackets, the leather
outside and wool within ; their hair is very long, they
have no covering on their heads, and many of them
wear their beards ; they have a dismal grim appear

ance. A little before five we arrived at the gates of

Wyborg, a strongly fortified town, where we were
stopped for our passports. They were puzzled to read
them, and kept us some time. We found pretty good
accommodation at the inn, which is kept by an Italian
who speaks French well.

   "On the nth we arrived at Lindula; a very poor
house -- no beds : we found our way, however, into a

tolerably decent room, where we must lie in our
clothes. The people of the house went to bed between
seven and eight, without appearing to take the least
thought about us. We had brought some meat with

with us, and I cut it into steaks, and cooked it in the

travellers' kitchen. Though the meat was very poor,

yet I must say it was done justice to in the cooking.
Between eleven and twelve I lay down in my clothes,

soon went to sleep, and had quite a good night."

   " 1 2th. -- Rose refreshed with my night's rest. The

snow is everywhere on the ground, and the roads are
very rough. About two o'clock we arrived at the
230  ARRIVES AT ST. PETERSBURG.  [1818.

outposts of Petersburg, and after crossing a bridge

supported by boats, congratulated ourselves on having,

as we thought, crossed the Neva ; for we were told
that when the ice comes down from Lake Ladoga, it

usually carries away the bridges, and the passage over
to the city is cut off for days together. After pro

ceeding, however, a good deal further, we found that
we had the main bridge still to pass, and that it had
been carried away by the ice only two or three hours
before. What to do we did not know, but after we
had inquired till near dusk, we returned some distance
to a ferry. There was no hope of getting the carriage
over to-night, so we took our bags, and got into the
small boat, leaving Peter to take charge of the carriage.

The ice had accumulated so much that I was afraid at

one time that we could not wedge our way through.

However, we landed safely at last, and hired two
droskies to take us to the Hotel d'Europe, which is in
a large open space just opposite the magnificent palace
of the Emperor.

   " Petersburg certainly is a remarkably fine city.
The houses are brick, plastered, and look like stone,
the streets are very wide, straight, and of great length,
and the footways broad with flat stones. It is con

sidered so important to maintain the uniformity and
beauty of this city, that no house can be built before

the plan is submitted to the government and approved.
The grandeur of the public buildings, and even the

private houses, exceeds anything which I have yet

seen. About a verst beyond the gate of the city is a
triumphal arch, on the top of which is the representa
tion of six horses abreast, fixed to an antique car,
1818.]  DESCRIPTION OF THE CITY.  231

containing a winged figure, holding out a wreath. I

suppose this is considered as the commencement of
the country ; the appearance is very different from
England; no beautiful hills, but one universal flat.

Petersburg itself is built upon a bog, so that the houses
shake as the carriages drive along."

   The next day Walter Yenning and Dr. Paterson,
two old friends in the cause of education and the dis
tribution of the Bible, found them out, and the meeting
was mutually delightful. The following morning they
engaged very excellent apartments, which Mr. A. thus
describes : " They consist of three rooms on the ground
floor, opening one into the other. Our landlady is an
Englishwoman, who married a Russian, and is now a

widow. She seems a respectable, clever woman, and,

as private lodgings are scarce at Petersburg, we regard
it as a providential opening to meet with such a com

fortable retreat."

  " ijth. -- A beautiful morning ; it freezes pretty hard,

our friends the Vennings called, and conducted us to
the Bible-Society house, where we met our dear friend
Dr. Paterson, who resides here. We were delighted
with the arrangements which Dr. P., under the patron
age and support of the Emperor and his enlightened
ministers, has been enabled to make. In one room

they have ten presses constantly at work on the Holy

Scriptures, besides two other presses in another room.
They are beginning to print an edition of the Testa
ment in common Russ, which has never been done
before, though there are thirty millions of people who
understand no other language. This was an idea of
the Emperor's, and as such immediately complied with
232  INTERVIEW WITH PRINCE GALITZIN.      [1818.

by the heads of the clergy. As more than twenty

millions cannot read, the necessity of adopting a plan

for schools is apparent, and Dr. Paterson is confident

that it is the Emperor's wish. He says I am come

just at the right time, and that it seems providential ;

indeed I have a uniform and increasing evidence that
this is a period in my life in which I am called upon

to labor, and in a manner a little out of the common

beaten track.

"About half-past nine on the 1 8th, we waited, by

appointment, upon Prince Alexander Galitzin, and were

very kindly received by the Prince and his confidential

friend and secretary, Basil Papof. There is a good

deal of vivacity in the Prince's countenance, but it is

tempered with sedateness and religious feeling. We

were soon sensible of that which words cannot convey,

but the language is the same everywhere ; he merely
took the letter of introduction from Lord Teignmouth,

and, without reading                      to his friend Papof,
               ;      gave

                          it,
                                      it
saying that he felt, pointing to his breast, that which

was a sufficient introduction. We explained to him,

with the greatest openness, our motives for visiting

this and other countries. He readily agreed to give

us every facility the conference lasted more than an

hour, and was highly satisfactory. Both the Prince

and his friend seemed to be men of deep piety, and to

be not only intent upon doing good to their own

country, but to the world. We then went to the

Minister of the Interior, where we also met with  a

cordial reception. He introduced us to his wife and

family, with whom we had some interesting conversa

tion on religious subjects his niece, the Princess
                      ;
1818.]  DINED AT SEBASTIAN CRAMER'S.        233

Sherbetoff, was with them. We next called on Lord

Cathcart, the British Ambassador, who received us

with respect and attention, and afterwards to visit the

Princess Sophia Mestchersky, whom we found a very

superior person, possessing excellent abilities, much

religious sensibility, and quite alive to benevolent

exertions for the good of mankind. I spoke to her on

the subject of the education of the poor, and she is

willing to take the lead in the female department.
   " We now returned to dinner with hearts full of

gratitude to that great and good Hand which has led

us thus far."                               The style

   " igth. -- Dined at Sebastian Cramer's.

of his house is that of a nobleman. The merchants

here live like princes. Nothing could exceed their

kindness and attention to us ; this hospitality is so

general, and we are now so much known, that we

have numerous invitations out to dinner, but we are

so anxious to get through the task assigned us by

our great Master, that we constantly refuse, where

duty does not lead us ; and our aim uniformly is to
go steadily forward with our work."

Daniel Wheeler, a member of the Society of Friends,

had established himself as a merchant in Okta, a vil

lage about a mile and a half on the opposite side of

the Neva, and had a room fitted up for worship. On
the Sabbath Mr. Allen and Samuel Stansfield, a mer

chant from Sheffield, settled at Petersburg, accompa

nied them to Wheeler's where they spent the day in

a religious opportunity with their Society. Both the

travellers addressed the assembly and returned early,
234 CONVERSES WITH PRINCESS MESTCHERSKY. [1818.

as it was quite dusk at three o'clock, and dangerous
to cross the river in the dark.

   " On landing from the ferry," says Mr. Allen, " we
pass the most elegant line of iron railing, between a

long range of granite pillars, that I have ever seen ; it

far exceeds the Tuillcries at Paris; within is a public
garden, which in the summer is a promenade."

   "26th. --We went with the Vennings to dine with the
Minister of the Interior, Karadavcloff, and were kindly

received by himself and his wife. There was a large
party, amongst whom we were glad to find our friend
Papof. The wife of the Minister and the Princess

Mestchersky were sitting together and very cordially
welcomed us ; by degrees we were introduced to
Prince Peter Mestchersky, brother-in-law to the Prin
cess, a pious good man, Prince and Princess Sherba-
toff, Prince and Princess Trabetskoy of Moscow, etc.
Dr. Paterson was likewise present, with many others

whose names I did not learn. Papof was kind enough

to place me by himself, and Prince Peter Mestchersky,
who was at my other side, seemed quite disposed to
be acquainted. We had much interesting conversa
tion during dinner, which was elegantly served up,
and after sitting about an hour and a-half, the company
rose and went into the large drawing-room, where
they divided into little parties or groups. The Prin
cess Mestchersky made me sit by her and entered
into many points of religious doctrine, and I could
perceive she had an enlightened mind on these sub
jects; on presenting her with the 'Thoughts, 'and 'Brief

Remarks,' I found that she was already in possession

of them, and was translating them into common Russ.
1818.]  VISITS THE PRINCESS.  235

   " In a note from Papof to our friend Venning, com
municating an invitation from the worthy Prince
Galitzin, that we should pass two hours with him on
Second-day, he adds, ' The Prince will not fail to
appoint also a day for the dinner proposed by your
brother, when we can again mutually point out our

feelings, and communicate our ideas about subjects
of Christian charity and love.'

   " May our Saviour bless all who seek His glory, and
consider it their utmost felicity to be sheep of His
flock, who, with the true simplicity of children, let
themselves be conducted by His Holy Spirit, and em

ployed as public instruments for the enlargement and

coming of His kingdom. To Him be glory, and
power, and honor, with His Eternal Father, and life-

giving Spirit, one God for ever and ever."
   " Twelfth Month ^th. -- While we were reading our

chapter after breakfast, a note arrived from the Princess

Sophia Mestchersky, requesting us to call upon her
between four and five o'clock this evening, in order to

have some religious conversation ; we accordingly

went at the time proposed. My feelings on the way

Ithere were very different from what often experience

in going to other places ; it was like paying a visit to
a sister and dear Christian friend. There was no

company, only her husband, sister, and family which
consists of two sons and three daughters. The large

room in which they live has a very lofty ceiling, and
is just like a shrubbery. There are some fine tall
trees in boxes, and very pretty trellis work, covered

with a beautiful creeper from New Holland ; the plants
are all evergreens, and in a healthy, flourishing state;
236  'HER TASTEFUL APARTMENTS.                            [1818.

among them are cages of singing birds, some of which

are of magnificent plumage, and there was one elegant
pair of Indian sparrows. Their stoves, and their

universal system of double windows, keep up a uniform

and very agreeable temperature throughout all the

apartments, and even passages, of a Russian house.

I wish my dear mother's house could be warmed in

this way ; it would suit her exactly.

   "The Princess's apartment is so large, and so much

divided by shrubs and trellis work, that two or three

parties might converse at the same time without inter

rupting each other. Her sister is a very pious woman ;

she only speaks French ; the Princess, therefore, set

tled her with Stephen in one of the little arbors, to

have their conversation, whilst we were in another.

We discussed many important points, and I found her

a woman of deep understanding. Our conversation

lasted more than two hours, and was highly satisfac

tory. Dear Stephen was, also, much comforted with

the conference he had with her sister, who, he says,

is a lady of deep piety and large experience. It was
past eight o'clock when we took our leave of these dear

Ch"risiotitahn. --frWienedsd,inuenddetro-tdhaeyswweiteht  feeling of peace."
                                                          the Minister of the
Interior. I went reluctantly, but the visit was very

satisfactory. We were received with marked kindness

and distinction. Dear Papof sat next to me, and we

had some precious conversation during dinner. He

is deep in religious experience, and feelingly spoke
of seasons of desertion and dryness, in which he said

that all he could do was to come to the Saviour with

the appeal, ' Thou knowest that I love Thee. If I
1818.]  RELIGIOUS EXPERIENCE OF PAPOF.  237

perish, I perish, but it shall be at Thy feet. I have no

hope but in Thee, and if Thou wilt not look upon me

any more, I must still love Thee.' But then he sweetly

remarked, that after these deep trials, the light of the
Lord's countenance shone upon him again, and he
went on his way rejoicing."

   This conversation was very suitable to Mr. Allen ;

for, while at Petersburg, he appears to have passed
through deep mental depression. But he clearly dis

cerned the end for which it was sent, as appears from

a letter to his daughter, written about this date.

  " I think I have never been so inwardly tried in all
my life as since I came to this city ; yet we both feel
Iin our right place, and have since seen the necessity

of these dispensations, for we have free entrance to

persons in the highest stations wherever we come and
it requires ballast to keep the vessel steady. Our
course would be very unsafe for any to follow, unless

the Great Pilot were at the helm ; and I have, at times,

faith to believe that He will steer me home at last,

and that I shall again settle down among those whom

I so dearly love."

   " 12th.-- In returning from worship at Daniel

Wheeler's we again walked over the ice, and my

breath was frozen upon the fur, which was only two
or three inches from my face. We noticed, yesterday,
when some women were washing, where the ice was

broken in the river, that the steam rose just as if they

had been using boiling water ; this was occasioned by
the condensation of vapor, and on opening the door

at Daniel Wheeler's, the moisture in the house was so

instantly condensed that it looked like smoke."
238  THE METROPOLITAN MICHAEL.  [1818.

            .-- Our dear friend, Papof, kindly conducted
us to the Alexander Nesky Monastery to introduce
us to the head of the Greek Church, the Metropolitan
Michael. When we arrived, he was standing in a

large room with plain furniture, and appeared to be
between fifty and sixty years of age; he wore his
beard, and on his head was a high cylindrical cap, fit
ting close to his face and covered with white lawn, which
also hangs down upon his shoulders ; on the front of

his cap was a cross set with diamonds or precious
stones. He had on a loose purple silk gown, with a

large star on his left breast, and a small one under it ;
round his neck was a gold chain, and suspended from
it an oval piece of enamel, with a figure upon it. He
held in his hand a large string of beads, which seemed
to be made of ivory, and were of different sizes.

Papof first went forward and kissed his hand, and then

introduced us ; he received us with much mildness

and respect, then seated himself, and made us sit down
by him. The conversation was entirely on religious

subjects, and the Metropolitan expressed himself with
much candor, and without the least tincture of cavil

ling. In reference to what are called the ordinances,

they believed that outward ceremonies were necessary,
though the substance of religion did not consist in

them ; and most fully, in the operation of the Holy

Spirit, and that without it none can come to a knowl
edge of the truth. He had tea brought in for us ; it

was of an excellent kind, but without milk, it being
the time of their fast. The discourse went on all the
time in a very satisfactory manner, and we parted, I
believe, under mutual feelings of esteem. We then
1818.]  STATE OF RUSSIAN SERFS.  239

went to another apartment in the same monastery, to

call upon the next in authority, Bishop Philaret, who
presides over the whole of the education of their
clergy, and is considered a very pious man. He has
a fine bushy beard, and his hair, which is two or three

feet long, hangs upon his shoulders ; indeed, this is
the case with their priests in general. The Bishop, as

well as the Metropolitan, asked questions with great
candor and mildness."

   " i6th. -- D'Junkovsky gave us very important infor

mation relative to their criminal process here. The
punishment of death is never inflicted, though it is

regularly pronounced in many cases according to

obsolete laws. Simple robbery, or thieving, if it docs

not amount to twenty roubles, is punished by sending

the offenders to the workhouse, where they are obliged
to work till they get a sufficient sum to pay the
amount of the thing stolen.

   " There are ,fifty-two governments in Russia, besides

the new one, Bessarabia. I asked him for the defini

tion of his term ' gentleman,' in a paper he was so

kind as to give me, and find that it includes every one
who is one of their noblesse, or a member of any of

their fourteen orders or ranks.
   " There are but few poor in Russia. The great

landed proprietors, who are called lords, take care of
their serfs, or rather the serfs are put in a situation to
take care of themselves. They each receive a certain
portion of land to cultivate, and if it produce more
than sufficient for the support of themselves and their
families, the surplus must be given to their lords. In
many cases a certain tax is levied upon them, and, if
240  ATTENDANCE ON WORSHIP.  [1818.

this is regularly paid, they are allowed all that remains

for themselves, so that some of them are even rich,
and prefer their state of dependence to liberty ; for if

any one injures or oppresses them, they appeal to their
chief, who, naturally, takes a pride in protecting his
own vassals. These serfs have certain regulations,
and a kind of organization among themselves, and are

much more independent than is generally imagined.
The system, however, is a very bad one ; and when

the master is needy or unfeeling, he may exercise

great oppression."

    ' It appears that from the year 1812, the places of

worship here have been much better attended than
previous to that period, when they were almost de
serted ; this is partly attributed to the marvellous in
terpositions of Divine Providence in favor of this

country, having excited strong feelings of gratitude,
and partly to the pious care of the Emperor, in which

he is nobly seconded by Prince Alexander Galitzin
and Papof, to advance the most spiritually-minded of
the clergy, and thus prepare the way for improvement

in that body."

   " 2Oth. --After dinner we had an opportunity for re
ligious worship at Daniel Wheeler's, in which it
seemed as though it might be right for me to address
Daniel Wheeler's sons, but a feeling of my own weak

ness, and utter unworthiness, made me afraid, so they

shook hands ; but I lingered, and they paused again,
when I communicated what arose at the time, and felt

peace and sweetness in it. The evening was quite un
disturbed by any visitors. After supper dear Stephen

and I had some very edifying conversation. On taking
1818.]  MANNER OF SENDING PROVISIONS.  241

leave to retire to my own room, I remarked, ' The

Master has been kind to us this evening; let us repose

in "H2isgthlo.v--e.N' "o snow yet, which is a great calamity to

the country, as the frozen provisions are stopped for
want of sledge roads, and there is great danger of
their being utterly spoiled by the mild weather. The
practice is to kill a large stock of cattle, poultry, &c.,

one thousand versts in the interior, and then bring them
down in sledges to Petersburg, over the snow; the

quantity sent when the snow sets in is more than
enough to supply all the consumption of the city for
two months. This frozen market usually begins about

this time. It is fifty years since so mild a winter was

known here."

   " jis(. --According to an appointment made for us,

by Prince A. Galitzin, Baron de Wrangel accompanied
us to see the large hospital, under the patronage of
the Empress Dowager. We were received with great
openness, benevolence, and respect, by -- de Toutol-
men, a senator, who is high in government. It is a
magnificent building, with a portico, supported by lofty

columns in the centre, and is open, day and night, to
all applicants who bring a passport from the police.
There are eight physicians in constant attendance.
There is a female superintendent, who presides over
the nurses, and six of the Veuves de la Charit^, who

are under a vow to serve the Lord in the persons of
the sick, are always there. Their vow permits them
to retire from the service, if disabled, by infirmity, or,

in short, when they will. A blackboard is placed at

the head of each bed, on which the patient's name is
242  GENERAL AND OTHER HOSPITALS.  [1819.

neatly written in chalk, and the name of the disease in
Latin ; the latter, suggested by the Emperor, is another
trait of his delicate and feeling mind.

   " The Empress Dowager places large sums of money
at the disposal of the senator for the relief of cases of

peculiar distress, and when a peasant, who comes from

the country for work in summer, is obliged to resort
to this hospital, and he is cured, he is supplied with

fur boots and warm clothing to return home. Every
thing in the power of art to alleviate the miseries of
human nature appears to be done here. There is an
excellent system of ventilation ; the most perfect neat

ness and order prevail, and, in short, it may be consid

ered as a complete model ; I have never seen it equalled
anywhere. It seems the work of a most benevo

lent mind, guided by superior intellect and working

with unbounded means."

   " First Month 2d. -- We went to see the institution
for ' Les Enfans Trouve's,' under similar patronage. It

does not depend upon the Crown, but has ample funds
of its own, and sometimes even a surplus at the end
of the year. The buildings contain three thousand

inhabitants. All children are received who are pre
sented for admission, and if the baptismal registers are

sent with any of them, and a wish is expressed respect
ing the religion in which a child is to be brought up,
it is educated accordingly, but if not, they are all
educated in the Greek Church. This conduct does
honor to the tolerant spirit of the directors. From

fifteen to twenty infants are received in a day. The

apartments, beds, and everything were clean, and in

the nicest order, and perfect tranquillity seemed to
1819.]    COTTON FACTORY AT ALEXANDROSKI.                                             243

reign. The children are instructed in various works
of industry, as well as the usual branches of learning,

and are kept till they are eighteen years of age. The

Empress Mother has this establishment under her

particular care, and visits it constantly, without any

notice, sometimes early in the morning, sometimes in

the evening, and sometimes at noon. There also,
is
                it
                        a

                                                                                 is,
an institution for five hundred lying-in women, but

that not shown to any one. The Empress Mother,

however, visits herself."

   " gth.--Visited large cotton-spinning manufactory

at Alexandroski, about ten miles distant. The works

are conducted by Alexander Wilson, an Englishman,

but the concern belongs to the Empress Mother. She

has to make up a deficiency at the end of the year,

but affords employment to about seven hundred
a
and fifty young people, who are boarded and lodged
       it
on the premises. Many of the arrangements, in regard
        I
to labor and recreation, appear excellent, and the

school of instructiona      very satisfactory. There                                  if is
                        is
boarding school at little distance, where one hun

dred children are receiving education and there are
                                            I;
also evening schools, as well as what are called Sunday

schools.   was principally desirous of seeing this

establishment with view to ascertain the moral state
           a

              I
of the population, and must say that was gratified

in no common degree; not a single instance of im

moral conduct has occurred among the females for

the last four years, and on the men's side there has

only been very slight exception known .this referred
          a                                 ;

                                  is        library for the use of the
                                         a
to intoxication. There

work-people, who appeared in good health, and as
244  A SUCCESSFUL MISSIONARY.  [1819.

they were extremely well clothed and treated ; they
were just going to dinner, which was conducted in

silence. I did not observe anything like lightness in

a single countenance in all this large company, and
yet there was a general appearance of comfort and
happiness. The excellent regulations in this estab
lishment are due to the Empress Mother, under whose

patronage and control the works are carried on.
   " Prince Galitzin is cheerful and lively. He gave us

some remarkable accounts of poor people among the
peasants in Russia, and particularly of one man about
sixty or seventy versts on the other side of Moscow,
who seemed to have the gift of prayer in an extraor
dinary degree. When he was a lad he prevailed upon

the bell-ringer to teach him to read privately ; he made

rapid progress, and at length brought the Psalter home,
and read to his parents, who were perfectly astonished,

and would not believe but that he had learned parts
of it by heart, until they took him to the priest, and
had him examined. He then read their church books

and the fathers, and also obtained a sight of the Scrip

tures, all which he studied so thoroughly, that he

could readily quote them. As he grew up to man's

estate, he was especially fervent in prayer, and many

remarkable cures were said to be performed through

/his instrumentality; but he used to say to the people,

' I am a poor worm ; can do nothing for you, but

you must pray for yourselves, and have faith in God.'
He then prayed with them. On one day in the week

he gave religious instruction at his own house to all

who came there, and often has he been known to stand
from morning to night. The stir was so great that
1819.]  PREACHING IN PRISON.  245

the priest became alarmed, though he took care to
hold his meetings on the days when other places of

worship were not open. It was found that those who

attended him became more pious, and that he could
quote Scripture and religious books in defence of his
doctrine and practice, and at length the priest himself
became convinced. The poor flocked to him in such

numbers, that he had constantly from fifty to one
hundred about him, and on some one asking how he
could maintain so many, he replied, ' He that fed the
multitude with the five barley loaves does it.' His

neighbors cultivate and reap his land, and do every
thing for him, saying to him, ' We will take care of

these things, you have nothing to do but mind religion
and pray for us.' He is sometimes sent for to Moscow,

and, in his absence, the priest keeps up the religious
meetings on the usual day of the week. He was once
stopped on his way by the police, who took him for
some quack, or suspicious person, and put him into

prison, where he was mixed with drunkards and other
bad characters of all descriptions. Here he improved

the opportunity to preach to them, showing the ter
rible consequences of sin, and how contrary drunken

ness and other vices are to the doctrine taught in the
Scriptures, which he quoted freely. The poor wretches
were astonished, and one of the officers coming to see
what he was about, interrupted him. The poor man
maintained that it was a duty to warn and exhort

sinners, and that if the officer were an advocate for a

contrary doctrine, he was an advocate for the cause
of the devil. The officer then went to his superior,
246  PERSECUTION FOR FAITH IN CHRIST.  [1819.

who, on conversing with the man, and finding whatit I

he really was, discharged him."it, a it,
   He also related another pleasing circumstance:is
   " Several children, at school somewhere in the inte
                                                 a
rior, were so impressed with sentiments of piety, that  a
they would retire to the fields and pray in little com
panies. One child had a remarkable dream, in which                   aa
                                                                                             is
he thought that the Almighty spoke to him and gave
him a message to his parents, and commanded him
also to speak to others. His parents were much
affected, and began to read religious books, but the

priest hearing persecuted the family and sent them
prisoners to Petersburg, just at the time of harvest.
This would, in all probability, have proved their ruin,
had not the Prince providentially heard of the circum
stance, and though the Emperor was absent, kindly

interfered on their behalf."

   " i8th. --The ceremony of blessing the waters of the

Neva was performed to-day, when the clergy went in
procession to sort of temple, erected on the ice,
carrying two crucifixes, Bible in glass case, etc.

   did not see but heard the cannon fire, and under

stand that the military were drawn out in grand parade.
Immense crowds of poor people go to get some of
the water, which they keep all the year and consider

   a preservative against sickness and many unpleasant

things. A hole cut in the ice, and, on the arrival

of the procession, a priest reads for short time in the
Bible, after which he dips hollow cross into the
water three times; all that drops from this cross

carefully preserved and considered especially precious.
1819.]  A TRAIN FILLED WITH BIBLES.  247

"He then puts in a bunch of birch rods, and sprinkles

 the people as far as he can reach."

    " 26th.--As there is now a good deal of snow on

 the ground, they are loading twenty sledges with
 Bibles for the interior, which are to set off in a train
to day for Tcflis on the other side of Mount Caucasus,
a distance of more than two thousand miles ; the same

horses go all the way, under the care of two or three
drivers. The Bibles are in Greek, Armenian, Persian,

and other languages, and are a supply for the Bible

Society at Teflis.
    " Received a kind note from Lord Strangford of

Stockholm, in which he pays, ' It gives me sincere

pleasure to inform you that the stimulus afforded by

your visit here has not yet subsided, and that the

King of Sweden, in particular, has manifested the
most praiseworthy disposition to profit by the hints
which your practical experience in all good works

enables you to supply.' "
    Whilst Mr. Allen was endeavoring, and not without

difficulty, to promote education in Russia, he noticed
most of the lessons, then in use, were taken from the
works of infidel writers of the French school, and de

termined that a selection from the Holy Scriptures
should be substituted for them. It was a striking fea

ture in his character, that when his mind was once
fully made up as to the rectitude and importance of

an object, he steadily sought to surmount every ob
stacle which impeded its accomplishment ; and though,
at times, he had been much cast down by repeated
checks, given to his efforts at Petersburg, yet he as

repeatedly renewed them. For instance, he says :--
248  PREPARES RUSSIAN SCRIPTURE LESSONS. [1819.

    " Some persons totally object to all attempts to dif-it,

fuse light and knowledge among the mass of the
people, others are only afraid of the consequences, as it

might affect those who owned peasants ; and some

pious and valuable persons hesitate, lest the poor, in
acquiring the faculty of reading, should employ it to
a bad purpose. One benevolent gentleman influenced
the minds both of Prince Galitzin and Papof against

schools. What I have suffered in endeavoring to
convince some of this class, I think I shall never for

get, but at length I believe it was providentially put

into my mind to set about a revision of ' Freame's

Scripture Lessons,' so as to adapt them to the present

state of Russia. I soon saw, however, that something

must be done upon quite a different plan, and that the

questions must be left out altogether. I consulted

Dr. Paterson, who heartily entered into my views ; we

had a meeting at the Bible House, and concluded to
begin business immediately. This memorable com
mittee, at least it will be so to us, consisted of S. Grel-
let, Dr. Paterson, Walter Venning, and his brother
John, W. Swan, and me. We literally worked at it

night and day, so that in rather more than two weeks

we had it all ready to lay before the Emperor, who

was so delighted with that he immediately ordered
eight thousand roubles to be paid for the cost of one
edition. This measure has opened the way for the
spread of the schools everywhere."

   ioth. -- A letter came from Papof, informing them

that the Emperor desired to see them that evening.

At six o'clock they went to the palace, and were con

ducted to the Emperor's private staircase. " Here,"
1819.]  INTERVIEW WITH THE EMPEROR.  249

 says Mr. Allen, " was not the least pomp ; not a single
 soldier on the stairs, and the servants had no sword,
 nor any livery or uniform. The Emperor was in a

 small apartment, dressed in a blue uniform, with gold

 epaulets ; he received us very kindly, and we were
 soon sensible of a renewal of those feelings which we
 had experienced when with him before. No one was
 present but ourselves. After we had conversed a short
 time, standing, he invited us to sit down. He seemed
 to retain a lively impression of our interview in Lon
 don, and of the meeting for worship which he attended.
 We were rencwedly convinced that the Emperor
 was favored with clear views respecting the only sure
 foundation, and that he was sensible of something of

 that Divine fellowship which the sincere in heart are
 often permitted to experience. He loves vital religion.

. On dear Stephen telling him that although in other

 countries he had felt it his duty to have public meet
 ings, at some of which a large number of persons were

 present, yet now he felt that the service lay more in

 conversation and private religious intercourse with in

 dividuals, the Emperor beautifully remarked, that if

 we attended to the impulse of the Holy Spirit, He
 would keep us out of every thing which might be im

 proper or hurtful in its consequences, and would sup
 port us in the performance of our duty, whatever that

 might be. He asked Stephen if he were not an eccle

 siastic, and finding that he was a minister, he inquired

 if I were one also. We then spoke on the state of the

 hospitals, the condition of the poor, and the pleasure

 we felt in visiting the two schools for the soldiers upon
 our plan; but we urged the necessity of an immediate
250  TALK ON PRISONS.  [1819.

 attention to the reading lessons, forcibly stating the
 excellent opportunity which the school plan afforded

 for the introduction of lessons from the Holy Scrip
 tures. At this, he was quite animated, and said that
 was the very wish of his heart, and that he was taking
 steps to get the Scriptures read instead of sermons and
 other things of mere human invention. He expressed

 the satisfaction he felt in having such persons about
 him as the Prince Alexander Galitzin and Papof, who
 had vital religion at heart. We talked farther on the
school plan, and were convinced that whatever obsta
cles it might meet with from other quarters there
were none with the Emperor.

    " He inquired of us about prisons, and we could
but express our sentiments fully, upon the present sys

tem here and in our own country. When I began to

speak upon this subject, he leaned over to me and looked .

at me with fixed attention. I said that the general state

ofprisons was too much alike in all countries ; that man
kind had, for ages, been going on upon a system,
which seemed to have vengeance for its object, rather

than reform. Society had suffered an injury from the

criminal, and therefore it seemed to be thought right
to make the criminal suffer, that others may be de
terred. Now, as it was pretty generally acknowledged
that this plan had universally failed, it was high time
to try another, more consonant with the spirit of the

Christian religion. We then described K. J. Fry's

exertions at Newgate, and the success which appeared
to have attended them ; but forbore to press anything.
The matter seemed near his heart. We told him that

we had visited all the prisons, schools, etc., in our way
1819.]          PRAYER WITH THE EMPEROR.        251

from Abo, and he was very desirous to have our

remarks. I accordingly promised him extracts from

my notes.
   " After some farther conversation, the Emperor de

sired that we might have a little pause for mental re

tirement and inward prayer, and we had a short but
solemn time of silence. Dear Stephen at length kneeled

down, and was sweetly engaged in supplication; the

Emperor also knelt, and I thought Divine good

ness was near us. Soon after this we took our leave,

and he shook hands with us most affectionately. As

we were retiring, he turned to me and particularly re

quested that, in the course of our journey, I would

send him, freely, any remarks that might occur upon
what we saw. We were, in the whole, about two

hours with him. Independence of character, and a

determination to see and judge for himself, mark the
mind of the Emperor, and display real dignity.

  "We returned to our lodgings, deeply thankful for

the inward support we had felt upon this interesting
occasion, and for the evidence that the mind of the

Emperor continued to be under the same precious re

ligious feelings as formerly; but he occupies an ardu
ous post, and is surrounded with many difficulties --
                                             "
may  he  still  be  graciously  preserved
                                           !
" nth. --We dined with the Minister of the Interior,
Karadavelof. I had to hand the Princess Troobetskoy

into the dining-room ; such conspicuous positions are

often very trying to me, but I endeavor to put the

very best face upon the matter, and must acknowledge

that hitherto I have been favored to acquit myself
252  VISIT TO THE EMPRESS MOTHER.  [1819.

upon all trying occasions in a manner which has af

forded peace in the retrospect."

   " Second Month i^th. --The Empress Mother having

appointed us to be at the palace at one o'clock, we ac

cordingly went, and were soon conducted by the
Empress's secretary to a very large apartment, at the
further end of which the Empress was standing alone,
but there was a door open into a room beyond, where

several ladies were just getting a peep at us. She is

a tall fine figure ; has something very graceful and
dignified in her manner, and one sees immediately,
from her countenance, that she is a very clever woman.

She advanced towards us with much benevolence and

kindness, said several handsome things to us, and how
glad she was to have an opportunity of seeing us.
She had been informed of our visits to the institutions

under her care, remarking, that it was her anxious
wish to make them as perfect as possible, and that she
should be glad of any suggestions from us ; she added,

that if it had not been for the affliction which had so

recently befallen her, in the death of her daughter, the
Queen of Wurtemberg, she would have shown them
to us herself. As she thus introduced the subject of

her loss, it afforded the opportunity for a little reli
gious conversation. She stood duringthe whole of the
interview, and her secretary was present all the time

   We could but highly commend the care of the
Empress in providing for the education of so many
hundred young females, and took that occasion to
represent the neglected state of the poorest class of

girls. I told her of what was doing in England, and

endeavored to explain somewhat of the plan, upon a
1819.]    USEFULNESS IN HUMBLE LIFE.                253

little sketch which I had made of a school-room for
four hundred ; when I afterwards held out my hand

for she smiled, and said she would keep it. The
it,
Empress wished us to see her other institutions, and
        :
particularly that for orphans, called St. Mary's. She
        It a
desired us to communicate with her at any time on
               is
what might occur in the course of our journey, and
                            '
offered to give us introductions to her institutions at
                    It
Moscow. After a highly satisfactory interview of
                              is
about an hour, we took our leave.
   " After tea, dear Stephen and sat down together
                                            I
and had precious season of religious retirement.
                                                 a
My petitions were mentally put up to the Lord that

He would be pleased to look down upon His two poor

solitary servants, wandering over the face of His earth,

and my mind was so filled with Divine good, that    I

was ready to say,                 enough.' "

As the Empress Mother requested, they went to St.
Mary's "
          maintained entirely at the expense of

the Empress Dowager, for those children whose

parents are artisans. They look healthy, neat, and

clean. They are taught reading, writing, the French

and German languages, useful kinds of needle work,

embroidery, drawing, and knitting. Great pains are

taken to find suitable situations for them when they

are of an age to leave the institution, on which they

receive one hundred roubles and complete set of

clothing. They rise at six o'clock all the year round,

and besides having prayers, read every evening in the

Scriptures. There no difficulty in procuring placesis

for the girls educated here. If some of our English

ladies would imitate this illustrious example, how
254                                                    AN INTERESTING ANECDOTE.  [1819.

much purer pleasure would they receive than from       ;

routs and balls."                                             is
                                                                                                                       it,
   " 2$tA. -- We went to Count Lieven's to tea, to meet
                                                                                                                             a if,
the Baron de Stackleberg, who resides at Revel, in

Esthonia, and were exceedingly glad to become ac
quainted with this excellent man. During two years

he was engaged in travelling on foot, visiting pious

persons in Switzerland and Germany, and lodging at
their houses for some weeks at a time. He related an

interesting anecdote of a young person who came

under his notice several years since. Before his views

became decidedly religious, he wished to see a begin
ning made towards the emancipation of the peasants ;
with these feelings he placed one of his own peasants
under the care of a schoolmaster, with directions that

if the young man's conduct appeared to deserve he
should have his freedom at the age of twenty-five.
This proved to be the case, and the proposed boon
was granted on returning from his journey the Baron
found that the young man had not only prospered in

his outward concerns, but had become really a serious
character. He now the confidential friend of his

former master, and assists him in all his pious and
benevolent undertakings. After the Baron had

become serious, he proposed to his peasants, that
instead of spending the First-day afternoon in drinking

and in amusement, they would come to him, he would

read to them in the Holy Scriptures. This proposi

tion was gladly accepted, and his congregation soon
filled two rooms in his house, and increased so, that

he was obliged to remove the place of meeting to
large stable. The people came from all quarters, and
1819.] ELECTED MEMBER OF IMPERIAL ACADEMY. 255

some from twenty versts distance. This good man
was struck with the want of education among the
people ; and he and three or four persons of like senti
ments, have united in raising a subscription to build
a school-room, and have formed an establishment for

training masters.
   " I called at Sir James Wylie's, the King's physician,

where I was informed, that the evening before, I had

been elected an honorary member of the Imperial
Academy of Sciences."

   " gth. -- When the extract from my journal was laid

before the Emperor, he was particularly struck with
the little representation of the man with the bell over
his head. Papofsays that the Emperor has issued
orders which will rectify several of these things. Prince
Galitzin expressed regret at our determination to go
so soon, and wished us to stay till spring, as there was
much good to be done ; he told us the Emperor de
sired us to seek by prayer to know whether it was
indeed right for us to go. Papof joined him in press
ing it. We explained to them that we believed the
time was now come for us to proceed, they therefore

ceased.

   " The weather is very cold, but the sky is quite

clear. I noticed to-day an appearance which I have

never seen in England ; in the sunbeams were innu
merable little sparkling particles, arising, probably,
from the water deposited by the air, being, in this
intense cold, immediately formed into minute spiculae
of ice.

   " In the great public library, where we met, by ap
pointment, Alexis Olenin, President of the Society of
256  CONVERSATION WITH THE EMPEROR. [1819.

Arts, we saw a fragment of a MS. of part of Paul's
Epistle to the Galatians, supposed to be of the third
century ; it was on a small sheet of parchment, the
upper edge was partly decayed, and looked as if it had
been burnt. The letters were in the very old Greek
character, and very large. The parchment was eaten
through in many places, just where the ink had been.
There were other manuscripts of the fourth and fifth
century, all on vellum; in the oldest of them, the

pages were divided into two columns, and there was

sometimes not more than a word or two in a line, as

they never divided a word. The theological depart

ment contains about forty thousand volumes.
   " Papof sent a note to inform us that the Emperor

wished to see us at eight o'clock this evening. We

accordingly went, and were shown into the same room

where we had been before. I could but think, that

from its simplicity, it might be an excellent pattern
for many members of our Society. The Emperor

came in with a smiling countenance, and took us both
by the hand at once. He stood talking a few minutes,

and then seated us, as on the former occasion.
   " The conversation went on without restraint, as

among familiar friends ; at first it was general, upon
serious subjects, and particularly about our departure.
On his expressing his wish to keep us longer, Stephen
explained the nature of our feelings, stating that if it
were our Divine Master's will that we should go for
ward, we could not do any good by staying. The
Emperor understood this, and though it was obvious

that he would have been glad had we felt at liberty to

have remained, yet he encouraged us to attend to our
1819.]  SCHOOLS FOR GIRLS.  257

convictions of duty. The discourse then turned upon
the new set of Lessons which we had prepared for the
schools on the British system in Russia ; he said they
were just what was wanted ; that he had been anxious

to diffuse light and knowledge among the people by
the establishment of schools upon our plan, through
out his army, and he expressed his thankfulness that
'the Divine Spirit' (those were his words) had sent us
here, just at the critical time, to make this system a
grand engine to imprint the great truths of revealed
religion upon the minds of millions. We put in a
word for the poorest class of girls, who are universally
neglected here, and the Emperor said that his mother
had told him what we had said to her upon this sub
ject, and that yesterday he had given orders for six
schools for girls to be founded. He expressed his

desire to have a School Society established like the

Bible Society, but earnestly wished that a member of

our religious Society, interested in this subject, as well
as in that of prisons and the Bible cause, would come

to reside in Petersburg for some time, saying that he

would receive such a one with open arms. I had

reason to understand what he meant, but my path is
straightforward. We spoke of the disposition of lands,
and the importance of endeavoring to form a middle

class, so much wanted in Russia. Robert Owen and

his plans were introduced, in consequence of his

asking what I thought of the cotton works at Alexan-

droski, under the protection of the Empress Mother;

he seemed very much interested as I gave him the
whole history of Lanark, and my reasons for having

anything to do with it ; and he told me that he thought
258 EMPEROR'S EARLY RELIGIOUS IMPRESSIONS.

I ought not to withdraw. Ho said he had read a little

of Robert Owen's plans, and soon saw to what they

would tend, and that his opinion of them was precisely
Ithe same as ours.
                       related to him the circumstances

of our last visit to Lanark, and gave him the only copy

I had lea of the 'Reply,' also the 'Thoughts,' and

' Brief Remarks,' with which he seemed quite pleased,

and   put  them  into  his  breast pocket.  had  been  favored
      He   now   told  us   how early he
   "

with the touches of Divine love in his mind, though

he did not know from whence they came, and was

surrounded by persons entirely ignorant 'of these

things ; that he remembered crying when he was

obliged to repeat forms of prayer, but that he and his

brother Constantine, with whom he slept, used to pray

extempore, and had comfort in it ; he said, that, as he

grew up, these tender impressions were very much

dissipated ; the Empress Catherine, not being a reli

gious character but a ' Philosophie,' put him under the

care of La Harpe, a very able tutor, but imbued with

French principles; and here he gave us a most inter

esting history of himself. It was not till the year 1812

that he had read the Bible ; but as soon as he had read

a little, he was eager to read more, and, he added, ' I

devoured it;' he found that it bore witness to what he

had felt before of the operation of the Holy Spirit in

his own mind, and he then knew what it was. The

conversation next turned upon peace, and we under

stood, from what the Emperor said, that one reason

                                            is,
for his keeping so large an army that when the

peasants who are slaves become soldiers, and after

wards receive their discharge from the army, they are
1819.]      "SITTING IN HEAVENLY PLACES."  259

free men. He is discharging great numbers, and
taking others in their place, and one great object of

establishing schools in the army is to prepare these

men for freedom. By this time it was getting near

ten o'clock, when the Emperor said that he wished us

to sit a little in silence as before, for the Great Master

had promised to be with the two and the three. He

observed that, even when we were separated, we might
feel one another near in a spiritual union -- that space

related only to what was corporeal, not to spirits.
This was a solemn moment, the evidence of the Divine

overshadowing was clear, strong and indisputable, and

the Emperor, I was sure, felt it to be so; it was like

sitting in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. After some
time, Stephen spoke most acceptably, and the Em
peror, I doubt not, will long remember his commu
Inication.
            needed no other evidence than my own

feelings to be assured that he was much affected. I

believed it right for me to offer up a supplication, but

so awful did it appear, that I had great difficulty in
giving way; at last, however, I rose, turned round,

and knelt down ; the Emperor came to the sofa and

knelt down by me, and now strength was given me

beyond what I had ever felt before, and the precious

power accompanied the words. When it was finished,

I paused a'little, and then rose; he rose soon after

wards, and we sat a few minutes in silence ; we then
prepared to take leave ; the Emperor was much affected

and held us by the hand, -- it was a solemn parting;

he raised my hand to his lips and kissed it. I was

now anxious to be gone, and moved towards the door,

and after taking leave of Stephen, the Emperor went
260 INTERVIEW WITH EMPRESS ELIZABETH. [1819.

hastily into another room. We returned to our lodg
ings with hearts full of Divine peace; we both agreed
that this one interview was worth all that we had

suffered in coming here, and all the sacrifices we had

made. It is marvellous to us how, from time to time,

upon all important occasions, we are favored with
wisdom and strength by our Great Master, just suffi
cient for the trial, though at other times we are often
greatly depressed ; the work is His, and the praise is

His alone."
   The Empress Elizabeth, the wife of the Emperor,

having expressed a desire for an interview with them,
they went on the I5th. Mr. Allen says :

   " The Empress had planned to receive us in her
private apartments with her companion, the widow of
an English clergyman, but by some mistake of the
servants we were shown into the state-rooms; after
waiting a short time we were ushered into a large
room where the Empress was standing. There is much
mildness in her countenance, particularly about her

eyes ; she received us very respectfully, and said that
from what the Emperor had told her, she wished to see
some of our religious Society. We had a good deal
of conversation with her upon serious subjects, which

was highly satisfactory. I feel much for her. After

an interview of about three-quarters of an hour, we
respectfully withdrew ; there was no one present but

ourselves, her attendants being in waiting in the next

room."

   " i6th. -- We called at the Bible-house to take leave
of Dr. Paterson and his wife, and W. Swan. We went

thence to Prince Alexander Galitzin's, where we met
1819.]  FAREWELL VISITS.                   261

him and dear Papof, and had our final parting oppor
tunity ; we had a great deal of free conversation, with
the openness of Christian friends. The Prince told us
the steps of his progress in religion, and how he was
brought to see the emptiness of mere forms, and the
inestimable value of vital Christianity. He said the

Emperor and he had been brought up as playfellows

together, and were exposed to the same disadvantages,

in being surrounded with irreligious persons, and that

the Emperor took the Bible with him in the campaign
of 1812, and read in it every day, except upon extra

ordinary occasions, and then he read more afterwards.

He gave us many interesting details about the Ho'y

Alliance, and the astonishment of the Emperor's own

court when they heard the decree read. Many con

                                 but few were pre
        a

                                      it,

                                      I
jectures were formed respecting

pared to understand the Emperor's real design. Before

we parted we had a solemn religious opportunity, in

which Stephen was favored in prayer; felt much.
We then took solemn and affectionate leave in the

flowings of Christian love.
   " We went next to the palace, to take leave of Sir

James Wylie, who has uniformly treated us with the
greatest respect, and even affection. He said every

thing to induce me to bring my daughter over, and

settle here for a time, stating how much more good

  might do here than in any other place in the world;

but still reverted to matters of duty, and had a little
I

    I

serious conversation with him, which seemed to make

an impression, and we parted with much tenderness.
His secretary told me that my diploma from the Acad

emy was sent to our lodgings. Having packed up our
2(12  PREPARATIONS FOR DEPARTURE.  [1819.

things and cleared out of the lodgings, we went to the
Vennings' for dinner. These dear friends have done

everything for us that kindness could suggest. They
have supplied us with an ample store of provisions,
fitted up pockets to the side of the kabitka, and have
attended to the packing of it themselves. Lord Cath-

cart called, and brought the document stating that I

was a British subject; he also gave us a letter to put
us under the special care of the British Minister at

Constantinople, and has manifested the greatest kind

ness towards us ; indeed, everything that could be
thought of to open our way has been done. The
Prince has furnished us with letters to all the governors
of provinces during the whole of our route, recom

mending us as persons well known to the Emperor;
and the Minister of the Interior has sent us a paper
containing an imperative order for horses, in case of

any difficulty.
   We retired into the little room, where we have so

often enjoyed a social hour, and after we had taken

coffee, and conversed for some time, I felt the cxtend-

ings of Divine love so strongly towards our host and

his family, that I longed to settle down in silence.
At length Stephen gave John Venning a hint, and
conversation ceased ; there was a silence which, I
believe, was felt by all ; I was thankful on every

account, that our blessed Lord condescended, in so
signal a manner, to own His poor servants, now on the
eve of their departure. Stephen delivered a precious
communication, which deeply affected both John and
Walter. Daniel Wheeler then said a few words. I
fclt the spirit of supplication, but was afraid, and
1819.] RELIGIOUS FAREWELL TO PETERSBURG.  203

longed that I might be permitted to get rid of my
burden some other way, but it would not do ; I there

fore knelt down, and was fervently engaged in prayer

for these my endeared friends ; I felt the power of the

Holy Spirit accompany the words, and all were ten
dered and affected. We then took leave, and put on
our schoubs, which consist of wolfskins with the fur
inwards and cloth without. We have our luggage
stowed in the bottom of the kabitka, a kind of sledge,
as in the hold of a vessel, and upon it is laid a horse

hair mattress, upon which we are stretched as in a
bed, with pillows under our heads. After wrapping

'our schoubs close about us, we spread our cloaks over
us. We set off with three horses, our man Sobiesky

sitting by the driver at the foot of the vehicle."
is,                  CHAPTER XII.

   VISIT TO THE MENNONITES AND GERMAN COLONIES.

   THE travellers proceeded through the night, and
reached Novogorod the following evening. The
country is described as uniformly flat, and covered
with pine and birch trees. The bark of the latter is
used by the peasants to make shoes, and when peeled
in long narrow strips it makes the Russian matting.
The inn at Novogorod did not afford beds, and the
landlord observed, rather surlily, that the Russian
lords brought their own bedding. However, they
procured two rooms, and, wrapped in their wolf-skins,
with a peaceful mind they soon fell asleep.

   Novogorod was formerly a place of great trade. It

is seated on a large river which communicates with
Lake Ladoga, and until the canal was cut l.> Moscow,
goods for that city were sent here ; perhaps the loss
of this channel of commerce may be one cause of its
present state of decay. The houses are universally
made of logs, with the roof overhanging several yards,
and the ends pointing towards the road. Many of
the large houses are in a state of dilapidation, and the
place has a miserable appearance. There are very
few persons of property, and it seems that the poor
are almost wholly neglected.

    The usual practice in travelling in Russia to go

                                                     (264)
1819.] DIFFICULTIES OF TRAVELLING IN RUSSIA. 265

forward night and day, only stopping at the stations

to change horses, and occasionally to take some

refreshment. The kabitkas are prepared with mat

tresses and leathern pillows, on which persons may

lie down ; but the inequalities in the snow render sleep

very uncertain.

Mr. Allen thus describes this journey :
" 2oth. --We started from Novogorod about half-

past nine o'clock, with three horses in our kabitka.

There are many monasteries in all directions ; the snow
is very deep, and the course of the road is shown by

branches   of pine   stuck  in at certain distances.  thirty
          hills of  Waldi,  which continue for near
   " The

miles, though not high, are really formidable from the

snow and ice. Notwithstanding our wings on each

side, which gave us a spread of about four yards, we
were nearly overturned two or three times. It is true

we had not far to fall, but if we had been completely

turned over, the weight of our luggage upon us would
have squeezed us a little. One driver has the care of

two or three single horse sledges, which pass in great

numbers between Petersburg and Moscow, and are

continually deepening a hole when it is once made.

Some of the holes were above four feet deep, and we

often plumped in without any warning. In the usual

severe winters they are sometimes ten or twelve feet

in depth, so that a kabitka and horses at the bottom

of one of these holes is for a moment completely hid

from one that is immediately following. We had not

proceeded further than about two versts from the

station, before we were completely stuck, and were

obliged to get out. It was very cold, and the snow,
266  ARRIVES AT TVER.  [1819..

which had been partly melted by the surt in the day,

was so slippery, that, what with my mufflings and

my clumsy fur boots, I could scarcely stand, but

Sobiesky was kindly attentive to me. We all put our
shoulders to the kabitka to assist the horses in getting

it out ; but we had soon the same ceremony to per

form over again, and the difficulties were so much

increased that, after going about five versts, we were

glad to creep into our nests, put down the mat, and
lie quietly till break of day, for it would have been
dangerous to go on. When it was light we found that

one of our shafts was broken. It was tied up, how

ever, just to enable us to get to a place where another
could be procured, and the whole cost of our repairs,
together with a handsome remuneration to two peas
ants, who came a mile and a half to our assistance,

was not more than about three shillings sterling.
   " On approaching Tver we saw a very grand monas

tery, with a number of domes of deep blue. The

middle dome was covered with golden stars, and all
of them were surrounded with crosses. We entered

the town over a frozen river, and put up at the house
of an Italian ; but here again we found they had no
beds. They however brought me some pillows, and

as I had been in my clothes for six nights running, I

got out my blanket and sheet, made up a bed of my
schoub, and slept pretty comfortably. Tver is a hand
some town upon the Wolga, at the confluence of three
rivers. The houses in the principal streets are brick,
plastered, though many of them in other parts are of

logs."
   The Princess Mestchersky was happily staying here
1819.]  ARRIVES AT MOSCOW.  267

for a little repose after the death of her sister. She

gave them a very discouraging account of Tver. One
fact may suffice: In the Foundling Hospital there
were admitted two hundred and eighty-three infants,
and by neglect and bad treatment, two hundred and
forty-eight died. Mr. Allen and his companion imme

diately set about interesting the procurator's mother-
in-law, and several females, in the formation of societies

for works of benevolence and mercy. The old lady

said they had enough to do in their own families ; but

Stephen Grellet delivered them a lecture, and the

matter sank deep into the heart of the procurator's

wife and daughter, who at once resolved to set about

the work. As they did not know how to begin, Mr.
Allen sketched out an organized plan, the objects of
which were, to relieve cases of distress, to visit female

prisoners, and the institution for foundlings, to promote

schools for poor girls, and to find out useful employ

ment for females, together with a clear statement of
the mode of proceeding with the business. Having
spent the two days he stayed at Tver in these useful

pursuits, they started in the afternoon for Moscow,
where they arrived the following day. The snow

began to thaw immediately, and proved they had
started only just in time. They delivered their letters
of introduction -- first to the Military Governor, then
to the. Civil Governor, and afterwards to the General

who is at the head of the police ; saw them all, and

acknowledged that without the valuable documents

they could have done little or nothing.
   Moscow contains from two hundred and eighty to

three hundred thousand inhabitants. The houses are
268  A CHARITABLE ESTABLISHMENT.  [1819.

irregularly built, large and small being all mixed
together. The ruins of many which had been burnt
in 1812 still remain. The Kremlin stands on rising

ground, and is in the heart of the city. It contains
the Imperial Palace and the Arsenal, and consists of a
number of streets and public buildings, the whole
surrounded by a wall of considerable height. Moscow

is divided into twenty districts, and there are twenty
siesgas or prisons of the police, which are somewhat
like the old watch houses of England.

   " With the exception of the siesgas," observes Mr.
Allen, " which are pretty much the same everywhere,

we found them in a better state than we expected. At

the great prison a considerable degree of attention
seemed to be paid to cleanliness. The hospital rooms

were in excellent order, and we were much pleased to
see a number of New Testaments and several of the

tracts translated by the Princess Mestchersky. This
prison was built after the visit of John Howard, who
suggested some improvements, which were subse
quently adopted. Most of the prisoners in the siesgas
were committed for drunkenness, which seems to be

a crying sin among the poorer classes; and lying and

stealing are so perfectly natural that they appear

scarcely to consider them as crimes."

   " Fourth Month 2d. -- Our friend Le Croix called

upon us, and we went to a magnificent establishment
like a palace. Its name signifies a house for the poor

and strangers. It was founded and endowed by a single
individual, Count Sch&rSmetorT, one of the richest

noblemen in Russia, who gave two million five hun

dred thousand roubles for this object, and the revenues
1819.]  DINNER AT PRINCE tiALITZIN's.  269

arising forever from eight thousand four hundred and

forty-four peasants, who each pay a certain sum
annually. The house is destined to lodge, board and
maintain entirely, one hundred indigent persons, of
both sexes, of free condition, and good morals and

character --one half of them to consist of persons of a

very advanced age, who are destitute, and the other
half those who are maimed or afflicted with incurable
diseases. The second part consists of a hospital, into
which fifty poor persons of both sexes and all con
ditions, with diseases not deemed incurable, are to be
received and taken care of gratis. The third part of
the charity consists of an annual distribution of twenty
thousand roubles to poor families out of the house

who maybe judged worthy of it--and all this endowed

in perpetuity by one individual. Everything about

the house is in a princely style, and it seems impos
sible that the neatness and cleanliness of the establish

ment throughout could be exceeded. The charity is

not restricted to country or religion, for we saw natives
of Sweden and other countries settled in this com

fortable asylum. All are at free liberty to exercise

their own religion, and though there is a large mag

nificent chapel for the Greek Church in the house,
none but the members of that church are required to
attend. This liberality might put the High Church
of England to the blush."

   " ^th. -- Our friend J. Rowand called to accompany

us to the Prince Sergey Galitzin's to dinner. The

Prince received us with much kindness : he is im
mensely rich, and gives away large sums of money in

private charity. Only a short time since he gave two
270  PRINCE GALITZIN'S HOSPITAL.  [1819.

hundred thousand roubles to the Hospital for the

Poor ; he presides over the charitable institutions of
the Empress Dowager in this place. His appearance

strongly reminded me of Sir Humphry Davy. We

were in the midst of stars and crosses, and a number of

ladies, amongst whom were several Princesses ; it was
plain we were objects of no common curiosity, yet we

were uniformly treated with much respect and atten

tion. About thirty sat down to dinner, which only

lasted three quarters of an hour, when all the

company rose and went into another room to take

coffee.         went this morning to see Galitzin's
                contains one hundred and twenty-five
   "^th. -- We
Hospital. It

patients. We were much pleased with the accommo

dation provided for the patients, the Empress Dow

ager having herself invented several ingenious little

contrivances to increase their comforts, and alleviate

their sufferings. She has just sent them a present of

a number of easy chairs for the different apartments ;

indeed nothing seems to be wanting which the most

benevolent feeling could suggest. There are several

Sclavonian Bibles distributed through the wards, and

they look as if they had been used. A patient who is

able to read sometimes reads aloud to those in hi ;

room. I noticed one mark of delicate feeling

towards the poor sufferers, with which I was- much

pleased: --when a patient is in extremity, or near tlu

point of death, a large screen is placed round the bed,

to form a separation from the rest.
   " Close to the Hospital is another institution, also

under the care of the Empress Dowager. It is called
1819.]  EMPRESS DOWAGER'S HOSPITAL, ETC.  271

the ' Bogadelny Dome,' or ' Institution pleasing to

God.' It is a kind of alms-house, for one hundred
and four old people, of the poorest class, and is main
tained from the same funds as the Hospital. The rooms

are as neat and clean as a parlor in a private house in

England. There were two Bibles in this establish
ment, but very few of these poor people can read ;
several of the women were employed in winding cot

ton, by which they may earn a little money to procure
themselves some extra comforts ; but the Russian

poor are universally lazy, and hate work : this, I have

no doubt, arises from their abject state, and the want
of a stimulating object. They are made to work for
their lords, and seem to have little or no idea of work

ing for themselves. I never saw any establishment

for the same class of poor equal to this."
   " 7//z. -- We went this morning to visit the institution

called ' St. Catherine's,' for the female children of the

noblesse, under the care of the Empress Mother.
Besides the elementary parts of learning, the pupils

are made proficients in French, German, geography,
drawing, music, and all sorts of needlework and em
broidery. The more essential parts were also attended
to. They are taught to cut out garments, to make

their own clothes, to get up linen, and are taken in

turns to the kitchen, where they note down the quan
tity and quality of articles, used. In one place in the

garden the snow had been removed, and a broad long
walk of planks made by the direction of the Empress,

that the girls might take exercise in the air without

wetting their feet. It is no wonder that the children

look up to her as to a tender mother.
272  FOUNDLING HOSPITAL.  [1819.

   " The Institution d' Alexandra, for the children of

those who are only bourgeois, is also under her imme

diate care, and exactly upon the same excellent plan
as ' St. Catherine's' Institution, and the countenances
and behavior of the children indicated the care that

was taken of them.
   " Much of another morning was devoted to a minute

inspection of the Foundling Hospital, a very large es
tablishment. There were one thousand one hundred

and forty-six children in the house, and seven thousand

seven hundred and forty-nine were taken care of out
of the house. After the age of infancy, they are di
vided into six classes to receive their education. The
excellent arrangements of this institution are a striking
evidence of what may be effected, when talent and
good feeling, united with the influence of exalted rank,
are devoted to the best interests of humanity. The

Director stated, that during four years, corporal pun
ishment had never been inflicted but twice ; and that,

when anything was wrong in the conduct of the chil

dren, he uniformly succeeded by remonstrance and
advice. One hundred and twenty of the boys are
selected to be taught the higher branches of learning,

in order to prepare them for the professions, and all

the rest learn some useful mechanical art. A certain

number of girls are selected to receive a superior edu

cation, that they may be qualified to go out as gover
nesses in noblemen's families. In the summer the

Empress Mother sends every class of the children, for

two weeks at a time each, into the country for change
of air.

   " We were much pleased," observes Mr. Allen,
1819.]  REMARKABLE DREAM.  273

"with seeing the broad sheet printed in blanks, which

is filled up and sent every day to the Empress
Dowager, giving a detailed account of every part of

this vast establishment. I have not heard of any

woman in the whole world, who is so heartily, so in

cessantly, and so extensively engaged in works of
benevolence, as the worthy mother of the good

Alexander."
   According to his promise, Mr. Allen drew up a

very able report of the several institutions he had
visited, and forwarded it to the Emperor from Moscow.
He took advantage of the opportunity to submit ob
servations calculated to advance the Redeemer's king
dom, and elevate the comfort and morals of the com

munity.
   He speaks much of a meeting he had at General

Guerhard's, where they endeavored to turn the con
versation on instructive subjects, and the feeling of
Divine favor became stronger and stronger; the young
people crowded together to get as near them as pos

sible, and Stephen had a sweet communication. At
this interview Margaretta M. Toutschkoff, a lady of

great sensibility and pious disposition, who lost her
husband at the battle of Borodino, when the French

invaded the country, related the following interesting

facts :--" Three months before his death, whilst asleep

with him and her infant son, she had a most remark

able dream. She thought she heard a strong voice

saying, ' All thy earthly comfort is broken up, --he is

dead at Borodino.' She awoke in great distress, but
falling asleep again, she thought she saw her father
coming to her quite pale, and bringing with him her
274  ARRIVES AT SERPUKOFF.  [1819.

little son ; he also said, ' All thy earthly comforts are

broken up, for he is dead at Borodino.' She thought

she was at the time at a certain village, the name of

which was clearly in her remembrance on waking.
In the morning she told her dream to her husband

and several other persons, but they knew no such

place, and searched the maps in vain to find it ; for
though the battle has since made Borodino memor

able, it was before so inconsiderable a village, that its
name was not inserted. About three months after

wards the battle took place ; her husband, who was a
commanding officer, fell, and the news reached her in

the very village which she had seen in her dream."
She now lives on the road to Toula, and devotes her
time to works of benevolence.

   "joth. --We left Moscow in our britzka soon after
nine, with four horses abreast. We had not travelled
many miles on a hilly road before our swing seat
broke down. The soil is loam, and as the roads are
much cut up on the melting of the snow, and after
wards dried hard, it was like riding over pavement.
We passed several rivers, sometimes on a raft, and
sometimes driving through them by a ford. Between

one and two o'clock in the morning we reached

Scrpukoff, a large place about sixty-nine miles from
Moscow, but we could gain no admittance at the

inn, nor make any one hear, though all the dogs

in the neighborhood seemed roused. At last a baker

came out of a house just by, and said he had a yard
into which we were welcome to draw the carriage;
we gladly accepted this permission, and as he also sup
plied us with bread, hot water, and eggs, we made
1819.]  ARRIVES AT TULA.  275

a good supper, and then got into our britzka, which
stood under cover.

   " About five o'clock Sobieski roused us with the

information that General Naschokinn, who resided
about nine miles out of our way, had sent expresses
for us in different directions, and that a messenger
had arrived here to conduct us to the chateau. We

were both very desirous to go forward, but as the
Governor of Moscow had sent to inform the General

that we were upon the road, we could not do other

wise than accept his kindness. The General has the
character of being a very benevolent man, and is very

kind to his peasants or slaves. When we came into

his extensive premises we saw the house at a distance

in a beautiful situation, with a white flag flying above

Ithe dome in honor of the guests, and as we approached,
the music struck up.  was bad enough before, but

this made me sick at heart. On our arrival we found

a crowd of servants waiting, and the General received

us most cordially. We lost no time in informing him

that we were a plain people, and loved simplicity, and

acquainted him with the objects of our journey. We

spent the evening in conversation, endeavoring to

make it as instructive as possible ; and we think that

some of his prejudices were removed. He seems to

be a benevolent, well-meaning man ; nothing could

have exceeded his kindness, even if we had been the

greatest personages."

   " Fifth Month 2d. --We took a cordial leave of our

host, who kindly sent his own horses with us to

Serpukoff. We reached Tula between nine and ten

at night, much fatigued and exhausted. This city
276            INCIDENT AT TULA.             [l819.

contains thirty thousand inhabitants ; has many hard

ware manufactories, and one for firearms, which is the

largest on the continent; it employs six thousand

peasants of the crown. We were pressingly invited

to see but, being warlike, we declined the proposal,
it
       it,
as would have been inconsistent with the objects of

our journey."

When the travellers attempted to deliver their letter

of introduction to the Governor of Tula, they were

directed to the tribunal. Coming in with their hats

on created general bustle, and some of the clerks
            a

began to hiss. They inquired of a gentleman  if      the

Governor was there, but he immediately asked why

they did not pull off their hats, and said they ought to

respect the place, for there was the Emperor's portrait.

They told him their conscientious scruples, and

assured him that the Emperor had permitted them to

see him with their hats on. This the attendants dis

credited, and refused to convey the letter. But on

Mr. Allen asking ' whether he was to write to Peters

burg, that he had brought  letter from Prince
           :

              it
                     is
                                                  a
                                                                        it

                                                                                      is
Galitzin, which they refused to open, he obtained his

end. The next day the Governor accompanied them

in his drosky to their public institutions, but was

obvious they had everywhere been at work to sweep

and brush. Nor could they find one public-spirited

character in Tula.

   " jth.--Orel beautifully situated on the sides of

two hills      has a great trade in corn, but there
miserable accommodation at the inn,-- no civility or

attendance of any kind, but Sobieski brushes about

and does the best he can for us. We find that no pro-
1819.]  THE BENEVOLENT PRIEST JOHN.  277

vision is made for the poor, except by a venerable ec
clesiastic, whom we visited ; he is called Priest John,
and though ninety years of age, walks about without
any assistance but that of his Jong cane. He has a

benevolent countenance, and I could but love the

good old man. He lives in a small house near one
of their places of worship, by the side of a yard, filthy

in the extreme, in which are several little hovels and

holes, which he has crammed full of destitute poor.
He has more than fifty of these lodgers, and he seems

always contriving how he may make more holes and
corners, in order to take in more. He conducted us

into these places, and the poor people were eager

to come to him for his blessing. The dirt which the

poor in Russia are accustomed to, is beyond descrip
tion. This man receives donations from various

quarters, but a little money goes a great way here.

A person might have as much black bread as he could

cat, for a penny sterling per day, and it rarely, if ever,
happens that any one is starved in Russia. The peas

ants are very charitable to one another."
    Having travelled the whole of the 8th and the next

night, at ten in the morning they reached Koursk, a
large city mostly composed of poor wooden houses,
and on the I ith, arrived at Bielgorod, a place in which
a spirit of active benevolence appeared to prevail.
During this part of their journey they came upon

those great plains called steppes, and soon after cross
ing the Dnieper (the ancient Borysthenes of the
Greeks) they reached their long desired point, Eka-
terinoslav, to visit the German and other colonies.'

    " We had a letter," says Mr. Allen, " from Hablitz
278  STEPPES OF RUSSIA.  [1819.

for the superintendent, General Contineas, and from

the benignity of his countenance, I was sure, before he

said a word, that he was our man. He received us
not only with kindness, but affection. We explained
to him the grounds of our visit to these parts, and in

quired if he could find a person who could act as in

terpreter, and who at the same time possessed religious

sensibility ; he almost immediately replied, ' I will go

with you myself.' My heart was filled with humble

gratitude and admiration.

   "Fifth Month 2jd.--We set off this morning for

the colonies, Contineas accompanying us in his car
riage. Our road is excellent, over what is called a
steppe, which is a wide expanse of natural grass,
without a tree or even shrub. Several mounds from

twenty to thirty feet high, resembling our barrows in

England, are scattered over these extensive plains;
and are supposed to be the rude monuments of the

Nomadic Tartars, who formerly occupied this district.
On coming into the possession of Russia, it was very
thinly peopled; but the Emperor is encouraging
colonies of industrious persons, chiefly foreigners, to
settle here. Some of these colonies consist of Ger

mans, including Roman Catholics, Lutherans, &c.,
others, of inhabitants of Smolensk, who were sufferers

when the place was destroyed in 1812. Some are
from Bulgaria, and some are dissenters from the Greek

church, who were much persecuted until the Emperor
took them under his protection, and settled them
here. There are six distinct kinds of colonies, but the

most remarkable and the most flourishing are those
of the Mennonites, who came principally from the
1819.]  ORIGIN OP THE GERMAN COLONIES.  279

neighborhood of Dantzic in Prussia, and very much
resemble Friends on some points. Their ministers
receive no salary, but support themselves with the
labor of their hands, and even their bishop may be
seen guiding his own plough. They agree with us in
believing that war is inconsistent with the spirit of

the Christian dispensation, and accordingly they con
scientiously refuse to bear arms. This, in their native

country, where every man is supposed to be born a

soldier, naturally subjected them to persecution, and
rendered their situation very painful. The Emperor,
however, with that tenderness of feeling for which he

is so remarkable, secured to them the free exercise of

their religion, and granted them many privileges ; and

their subsequent conduct has fully justified the opinion
he formed of them.

   " Neuenbourg, the first colony of Mennonites, con
sists of fourteen families, and every family has sixty
dekateens of land, for which they only pay to the crown

fifteen kopecks per dekateen per annum, with an agree

ment to keep up the roads and bridges through their
respective places. Each dekateen is nearly equal to

two and three-quarters English acres. A rouble is

worth from ten to eleven pence sterling ; one hundred

kopecks make a rouble, so that ten kopecks are

equivalent to one penny.
   " The Emperor, in his visit to these parts last year,

was so much pleased with the Mennonites, that he
gives every new family of this sect who come to settle

here five dekateens more than to any of the rest.
Many hundred families are expected from Prussia this
year. The King of Prussia docs not wish to part
280 FAITH AND MANNERS OF THE MENNON1TES. [1819.

with them, as they are indeed some of the best of his
subjects ; but as they cannot bear arms, the popular
odium is so strong against them that they are glad
to get away. The soil allotted to them in Russia is
so excellent, and the privileges they enjoy there, with

the free exercise of their religion, is so great, that if

nothing unforeseen occurs, they must in a very few
years become rich. Those who are already settled

have large flocks and herds, and most of them are in
a very thriving way. We took up our lodging in the
village of Cortitz, which consists of thirty-nine families
of Mennonitcs, and were most hospitably entertained
by the mayor of the canton. The canton Cortitz is

altogether Mennonite, and comprises fifteen villages.
The first settlers came about thirty years ago from
Prussia, and consisted of three hundred and thirty-one
families, but they are now increased to nearly six

hundred. The houses are built of wood, very neatly
thatched and comfortable. They present a striking

contrast to a Russian cottage, and are all furnished

with a commodious barn, a granary, and a garden
well stocked with fruit-trees. Their bishop, a very
sedate man, gave notice to the different villages of a
meeting at nine o'clock the next morning. The neat,
plain, and commodious meeting-house, was surrounded
with horses and carts belonging to those who came
from a distance, and, though the notice was so short,
there were about five hundred persons present. We
found them singing a psalm, according to their usual
custom, and soon after they had finished, the Bishop
explained to them in German who we were, and the
object of our journey, and then exhorted them to
1819.]  THEIR SEVERAL SETTLEMENTS.  281

prayer. They all knelt down, and remained a short

time without uttering a word. They are in the prac
tice of silent prayer, both at the beginning and close
of their worship. Stephen spoke at considerable

length, Contineas interpreting. I thought that some

thing was also required of me, and had much sweet
peace in yielding to the expression of it. Several of

the people were in tears, and I believe many will long
remember the occasion. Most, if not all the children

in the colony can read. There are two bishops or

clders, who ordain the inferior clergy by the laying on
of hands. They do not administer baptism till about
the age of seventeen -- and not then until the young
person is found capable of going through an examina

tion."

   The next day they proceeded to the island of Cor-

titz, situated in the Dnieper, where the water, rocks,

and surrounding country, formed a beautiful landscape.

As they approached the avenue to the pastor's house,

they found the path strewed with lilac blossoms, and
on entering it everything bore the marks of neatness

and comfort, while every attention that kindness could
suggest was paid to the strangers. The next colony

they visited was Schonweise, where, though they
arrived late, notice was given, and one hundred and

fifty assembled to hear Stephen address them on the
necessity of a life of holiness.

   After travelling over part of a vast steppe on the
25th, they arrived in the evening at Grasnenthal, where
there is a settlement of nine or ten families. This is
one of the principal stations of the flocks of Merinos,

and Contineas examined them very carefully.
282  DINED WITH THE OBERSCHULTZ.                           [1819.

    " 26th. -- Halberstadt is another considerable settle

ment of the Mennonites, where one of their elders or

bishops resides. His dress is the same as the other

colonists. He has no remuneration for his office,

strictly observing the injunction of the Saviour, ' Freely

ye have received, freely give.' He told us they had

received five hundred Bibles from the Bible Society

at Petersburg, and four hundred Testaments. In their

cloth manufactory, they have an Englishman to con

duct the process of dyeing, and a nursery of fruit and

forest trees, from whence the colonies in the neighbor

hood are supplied. The good effects of this wise plan

are quite incalculable." They then proceeded to Pe-

tershagen, where they  held  atnhoethteerxtm, e"etTinhge,  and Mr.
Allen addressed them   from                                kingdom

of  God is not in  word but in power."

    " Fifth Month  28th. -- My eyes are violently          inflamed
this morning, which I attribute to travelling in the

wind over these exposed plains, but my mind is filled

with peace. We paid sweet visits to several families,

and found the hearts of the people quite opened to us.

We dined with the OberschultzottiiG colony, who was

at our first meeting, and has since followed us wher

ever we have been ; and in the afternoon we returned

to our kind aged host, where we had an affecting

parting in the full flowings of gospel love. We then set

out for Orloff, another Mennonite settlement, passing

an extensive Bcrgerie, and saw a beautiful flock of

between two and three thousand sheep.
   " On leaving Orloff we proceeded to Altona, the

last of the Mennonite settlements, passing several vil

lages on our way, and were truly gratified to see the
1819.]  TAKES LEAVE OF CONTINEAS.     283

neatness of the houses. We lodged with a precious
young man, one of their ministers, who, with his wife,
gave us a kind and Christian reception ; and were in
the very room which the Emperor occupied in his
visit last year, when he was quite delighted with these

people."

    Here they held a service as at the former settle
ments, at which Mr. Allen spoke for some time, " but
was careful to leave off" when the pressure of duty was
removed." The feeling evinced by the people at this
meeting, he says, richly paid them for all their toils

and privations on the road.
   On the 3 1st of May they took leave of these inter

esting people, whom they had labored unceasingly to

benefit, and who had shown the estimation in which

they held their services, by most affectionate atten

tions. Their dear friend Contineas, most unwilling to

part with them, accompanied them part of the way

towards Perekop, but at length the    separation took
place, " with much affection on both  sides." Neither

time nor distance interrupted the current of affectionate

feeling in the heart of Contineas, or of the Mennonites.

Two extracts from letters will show the high estima

tion they entertained of the labors of the travellers,

and the beneficial effects produced. After many

tender and pious expressions to Mr. Allen, Contineas

thus proceeds :

   " The recollection of your ever memorable visit, of
your pious labors, of the edifying sermons delivered
by you in their temples and in their families, in the
pure spirit of the Gospel of the Saviour of souls, will

remain forever engraven on their hearts, and not only
284  USEFULNESS OF THEIR VISIT.

on the hearts of the present generation, but will be
handed down to their posterity ; for your names and
your memory are cherished and honored by persons
of all ages. There is little hope that two apostles like
you -- one from England, the other from America --
will soon reappear in our horizon to comfort suffering
humanity, to loosen the chains of the prisoner, and to
spread the pure light of Christian faith. Renewed
desires are awakened in the hearts of the Mennonites,
as well as in mine, that through the grace of our Lord,

after a journey as long and trying as it has been salu

tary to many nations, is accomplished, you may be
happily restored to the bosom of your dear families.
Since you were here, a Lancasterian school has been
opened for the children of soldiers. It is maintained
by the crown, and about two hundred and fifty boys
are receiving instruction according to that excellent
method, which, it is said, will be introduced every

where. I mention this circumstance, knowing that

whatever tends to the welfare of mankind is interest

ing to you."
    The other extract is dated " From thr. Mennonites on

the left shore of the Moloshnia, in the government of
Tauris, in Russia." After a loving and apostolic com

mencement, they proceed :
   " We have abundant cause to thank God for the

vast blessings bestowed upon us in His grace, who
hath, by His merciful hand, condescended to guide us,

poor unworthy sinners, to a country under so glorious
a monarch, whose praise resoundeth to the ends of
the earth, and under whom we have undisturbed peace.
Yea, for all our temporal blessings, and rnc/re especially
1819.]  LETTER FROM THE MENNONITES.                                      285

for the salvation of the soul, thanks be unto Thee, O

Lo"rdDeoafrhofrsitesn, dnsoawndanbdreftohrreenverinmoCrher.ist,Aymoeunr  !

                                                                         honest-

hearted visit to us, your edifying counsel, and your
balsamic epistle, we gratefully accept as a proof of
pure brotherly love. Our hearts have been thereby

united to you, and your salutary instructions have
awakened, in many of us, peculiar thoughtfulness.
You have left your homes for the sake of the word of
God, and the salvation of souls, and have offered your

selves up to His guidance for Jesus' sake. We very
earnestly desire that He may accompany your import
ant work with His saving blessing. We have, with

joy of heart, to thank the Lord our God for His

mercy, that, in these latter times, He makes use of

faithful laborers as instruments to spread the pure
precepts of Christianity. May He bless you with the

strength of His Spirit, that your labor may not be in
vain in the Lord ; may He continue with you in your

holy undertaking, crown your faithful labors, and
reward you for ever in His mercy ! Dear friends,

though the wide sea separates us, yet love unites us.

May God unite our hearts more and more in the
power of the Holy Spirit, and bless us all with heavenly
grace ! We all salute you with the kiss of love and

peace.

        (Signed)  "JACOB FAST,
        " Elder of the Congregation at Ilalberstadt"

   Soon after Contineas left, a covered cart overtook
them, and brought the packet of letters from London
which had been forwarded from Ekaterinoslav. " My
286  VISITS A SALT LAKE.  [1819.

poor eyes," says Mr. Allen, " were in a sad state ; but

I could not resist the inclination to read as much as
possible of this treasure, and I was greatly comforted

and deeply thankful at the accounts.
    1 In the course of our ride to day we saw some

beautiful green lizards running about, and little brown

animals which I think were jerboas ; there was a great

variety of birds, several eagles and wild peacocks,
some of which were so tame that they let us drive
close by them. We stopped for the night at a single

house, but as there was no accommodation for lodging,
we remained in the britzka, which was drawn under
cover. Close by us was a company of Turks and

Tartars, crowded together in a little hovel. As I was

walking about, a traveller accosted me. He was a
Greek from the Island of Zante, very much of a gen

tleman, and there was something mild and affectionate
in his manner. We both heartily regretted that we
could not speak to each other, but, like myself, he

knows a few words of Russ, and smiling and looking

upwards, he pronounced the word ' God ' in that lan

guage. Stephen and I were afterwards amused in

considering how many different nations were met in

this spot --an American, an Englishman, a Greek, a
German, a Pole, a Turk, Tartar, Jew, Russian, etc."

   " Sixth Month jd. -- In our way to Simferopol we

went to see one of the principal salt lakes, which
supply .the whole country with salt. It is formed

entirely in the lake, by spontaneous evaporation,
during the seventh and eighth months. The lake is

thirty eight versts round ; it has no communication

whatever with the sea, and consequently there must
1819.]          THE CAROID JEWS.                          287

be salt springs. I was much gratified with this sight.

   " During our ride to-day we observed mountains

before us in the distant horizon, a sight which I do

not recollect that we have had in all our journey from

Abo, a distance of nearly two thousand miles. We

arrived at Simferopol about noon.

   "6th. --We stopped on our way to Sevastopol at

Batch isaray, where there are a great many Jews called

Caroid, and visited their interesting establishment,

situated on the summit of high rocks, from whence

there is a full view of the Euxine. The chief priest,

with whom Stephen had some religious conversation,

showed us a valuable manuscript copy of the Old

Testament, beautifully written on parchment; it was

in a long box, covered with black velvet, and orna

mented with silver ; the box contained two rollers, on

which the manuscript might be wound from one to

the other ; I was pleased to see this specimen of the

ancient plan. They have a printing press here, and a

school, in which mathematics, algebra, and the higher

branches are taught. These Jews differ from others,
in rejecting the Talmud and adhering to the pure text

of Scripture."

The travellers during their stay at Simferopol had

an interesting conference with the Malakans, a people

of whom the following description was given by Mr.

Cornies in a    letter to Mr.  Allen in  the year 1830 :  and
   " Between    the German
                               colonies  of Mennonitcs

the Nogay Tartars, lies the country of the Malakans,

a sect so named on account of their non-observance

of fasts, and their use of milk diet on week days. The

Malakans also call themselves true spiritual Christians.
288  THE MALAKANS.  [1819.

The district appropriated to them in 1823, contained

about thirty thousand dekateens.

   "In February, 1825, their number consisted of three

hundred and ninety-eight males, and four hundred
females; now it is increased. They are chiefly from
the governments of Tambov, Orloff, and Ekaterino-
slav; many Don Cossacks are to be found among them,
and several who have long served their country in the
rank of officer, and bear marks of this service. They
have suffered persecution, in consequence of their
separation from the Greek Church, and many, particu
larly the Cossacks, languished for a long time in

prison ; they, however, firmly maintained their ground,

and could not be compelled to give up those opinions
which they had formed in consequence of reading and

searching the Bible. They prefer the Holy Scriptures
to all other writings, considering them as the rule of
their faith, and as containing the revealed will of God
to man. Though not rich, they have paid as much as
seventy roubles for a copy of the sacred volume.
They acknowledge Christ as God manifest in the flesh,
who died on the cross for the sins of the world. Like

the Duhobortsi, they give an entirely spiritual signifi

cation to baptism and the supper, which are not kept

by them in external signs and symbols. They reject
pictures or images, and the adoration of saints, in their
worship, as well as other ceremonies of the Greek
Church. They generally lead a good moral life, and

there are among them many seeking souls who love
God, and are searching after truth.

   " In their assemblies the Bible is read and explained.
 Though most of them love the truth, yet they divide
1819.]  THE DUHOBORTSI.  289

and separate themselves, forgetting, in the support of
points unnecessary to salvation, that love which ' is the
fulfilling of the law,' and which would unite all in the
bond of peace. They are laborious and upright, and
are amenable to the government under which they
live ; they have no establishment for the education of
their youth. The Sunday is strictly kept amongst

them.

    Between this singular people, who have adopted so

many of the opinions of Friends, and Mr. Allen, there

necessarily arose the deepest sympathy.

   "In conversing, they were evidently affected at

finding that our sentiments- so exactly coincided with
theirs. But few residing here were born in their society,
they were convinced by reading the Scriptures, and by
what they felt in their own minds ; this, of course,
endeared them still more to us, and was a precious
and confirming evidence of those truths which we

believe."

    Besides the Malakans, they fell in with another sect

called Duhobortsi, many of whom they conversed

with, when at their settlement on the Moloshnia
River ; they are thus described :

   " They were well dressed, according to the custom
of the country; but there was something in their

countenances which I did not quite like. We in

formed them that we wished to know from themselves

what were their religious principles. It soon appeared,

however, that they have no fixed principles ; there
was a studied evasion in their answers, and though

they readily quoted texts, it was plain they do not
290  THE SABBATARIANS.  [1819.

acknowledge the authority of Scripture, and have

some very erroneous notions. I was anxious to ascer

tain their belief respecting our Saviour, but could

learn nothing satisfactory. Stephen endeavored to

convince them of their errors on some points, but

they appear in a very dark state ; they have driven out
from among them all those who receive scriptural

truth. My spirit was greatly affected, and I came

away from them much depressed.

   "The following morning (First-day) was spent with

the Duhobortsi; a considerable number attended what

they called their worship, but some of their ceremonies

were painful to witness. They manifested great igno

rance on the subject of religion, and the interview did

not prove more satisfactory than that on the preceding

day. An opportunity was, however, afforded for some

gospel labor among them."

  A fourth sect with whom they mingled were Sab

batarians, but the only information Mr. Allen gives

     is,
        a
           it

                                                             is
                                                                a
concerning them that they observe the seventh day,

abstain from swine's flesh, and think that the Jewish
dispensation was not fully abrogated by Christ."

   " toth. -- We packed our -britzka this morning and

set off for Theodosia, stopping on the way at Karasan

Bazar, to visit the prison and schools. There

Tartar school here, Jew's school, and an Armenian
school. In the first, the only books in use were the

Alkoran and a book of prayers, and most of these

were in manuscript;  requires a course of years to
teach the children to read. At the Armenian school

they have Bibles. The following morning we reached
1810.]    DINED WITH THE GOVERNOR.                    291

Theodosia, a very ancient town, beautifully situated

upon a fine bay, where there is excellent anchorage

for large vessels. It was once a very large and power

ful place ; the Genoese took it from the Greeks, the

Tartars from the Genoese, and about thirty-two years

ago the Russians took it from the Tartars."
   " i2th. -- This morning we started on our return to

Simferopol. The Governor kindly ordered two horse

men, one a Greek, the other a Tartar, to accompany

us and show us the road."

In their way they visited the remaining German

colonies at Heilbrunn, Furichthal, Rosenthal. Mr.

Allen says :
   " These people seem, on the whole, getting forward

very well, though not in the same style as the Men-

nonites, who are certainly the flower of the flock."

They arrived at Simferopol on the 1 5th, and after

dining with the Governor, as they returned home they

paid a visit to the widow of the celebrated naturalist,

Professor Pallas, a     very   affable, agreeable  person.
" She lives in a nice  small  house, with a large  garden,

and has made a delightful place of what was before a

waste. Her husband's affairs were involved at the

time of his death, but the Emperor inquired into the

circumstances, gave twelve thousand roubles to pay

his debts, and settled three thousand roubles a year

upon her, saying that her husband had done honor to

Russia, and that the widow of such a man merited

attention. We could not get awaynvithout taking a
cup of tea with her, and she had it set out in the

garden."
292  MONUMENT TO JOHN HOWARD.  [1819.

   " i6th. --Just before we left Simferopol one of the
Malakans, a nice old man, brought us two loaves of
bread, as a mark of their love. Stephen at first refused

them, as we were already provided, but the poor old

man seemed to take it to heart, and we accepted them ;
he made many significant signs expressive of his love,

and held us by the hand. Sobieski said that he

begged to ride a verst or two with us, in order to have

a few minutes more of our company, and we accord

ingly took him up ; he was very tender and contrited,

and it was plain that he deeply felt the separation."

   " i8th. -- We reached Cherson, a very large place,
where we visited many of the institutions, and the spot
where the remains of John Howard were interred ; it
is about five or six versts from Cherson, on an old

open steppe, near the Countess Polotska's garden.
The monument is a simple pyramid built of stone; on

Ione side of the pedestal could just make out the

name of Howard. These three appropriate Latin
words have been inscribed by the hand of some visitor,

' Propter alios vixit.'
   " Within a few yards of this place, an Englishman

has erected a monument to the memory of his son,

exactly similar to Howard's ; it is also without any

inscription, which I consider extremely indelicate;

however, the upper part of it has fallen down, and
although it has been built up again, it is done in so

rough a manner that it may easily be distinguished
from that of the real philanthropist. On our return,
we stopped to view the place where, by order of the

Emperor, a new monument is about to be raised to
1819.]  JESUITS AT ODESSA.  293

the memory of this good man, and opposite the monu

ment the new prison is to be erected.

   " 2Oth. -- We arrived at Nicoiief. The Governor,

Admiral Greig, who is an Englishman, and an excel

lent character, received us very kindly, and readily
offered us every assistance. We visited some of the

public institutions, and dined with him at his country

seat, where we met several agreeable persons, and
had much conversation on the great truths of religion.

One lady who appeared in a tender state of mind,

remarked it was the first time in her life that any one

had spoken to her in that way ; she was affected and
comforted. We left Nicolief in the afternoon, and

reached Odessa the following day ; we passed a great

deal of uncultivated steppes, and saw a large herd of

horses ; Sobieski says, that one person alone owns

four thousand.
    " Odessa is quite a new place, for in 1791 there was

not a house here ; now there are forty thousand in

habitants. It is a port of great consequence, and the

quantity of corn exported is prodigious. We find
that the Jesuitical spirit is so strong here, that a priest
in one of the neighboring Roman Catholic colonies
collected the Bibles and some books on religious

subjects, which belonged to the people, and burnt
them in the middle of the place."

   They attended the Committee of the Bible Society,
where the Archimandrite, Theophilus, dressed in the
costume of the Greek Church, General Inzoff and his
aide-de-camp, a Christian Turk, two priests, and

several persons with orders were present. A deputa-
294         GREEK ARCHIMANDRITE.                              [1819.

tion of boys from the Lyceum came, who had formed

a Juvenile Bible Society among themselves. Mr.
Allen says it was truly a delightful sight. In the even

ing they took tea with the Archimandrite, who told

them that   othuetwlaivrdingformsusbswtaenrcee.only"  of use  to bring us
to Christ,                                            Much    sweetness,"
observes Mr. Allen, " was felt throughout a long
conversation, which, I believe, most, if not all, will

remember as long as they live."
           CHAPTER XIII.

JOURNEY THROUGH TURKEY AND ITALY TO ENGLAND.

THEY now prepared to embark on board the Lord

Cathcart, bound to Constantinople, but not without
                                 of danger. " Cut off from
some  Maprp. reAhlelennsi,on"sI                             all,"
says                             have no other comfort but  that

which I am graciously favored to feel internally, and

which is not withheld, at least, such a portion is

granted as keeps me from sinking; but it is a sifting

ime. We hear that the plague is very hot in a

Turkish frigate at Constantinople, and in two other

vessels, so that the prospect is solemn in going to such

a place."

During the voyage Stephen was unwell, and three

of the crew, for whom Mr. Allen prescribed with suc

cess. On the Sabbath he read the Scriptures to the

ship's company, and addressed to them the words of
eternal life. On the I2th of July they entered the

Bosphorus, and as they approached the scene of the

Apostle's labors, that passage in which Paul speaks
of " the trouble which came to us in Asia," was

impressed on the mind of Mr. Allen, and was a

preparation for the trial he was soon to endure.

The Bosphorus is about one mile and a-half broad.

The hills on each side, rising from three hundred to

eight hundred feet, undulate beautifully, and the views

                                 (295)
296  ARRIVES AT CONSTANTINOPLE.  [1819.

are very fine. The strong current which always sets
that way, together with a fair wind, hurried their bark
rapidly along, and at half-past six they anchored in
the Bay of Constantinople, opposite the palace. The
bay is about two miles and a-half broad, and is almost
surrounded by hills, on which are numerous houses
'ntermixed with trees. They are generally of wood,
about two or three stories high, covered with pantiles,
and form a beautiful picture from the water; but on
going into the gloomy, filthy streets of Constantinople,

the contrast is indeed great ; they are so narrow,

and the upper stories overhang so much, that in some

places the inhabitants might easily shake hands with
each other out of the windows. There are many

stone buildings with domes, which are mosques, and
numerous minarets, which are plain tall pillars with a
gallery round the top, where a person goes at certain
hours to call the ' faithful ' to prayers. On the oppo
site side is Scutari, which seems almost as large as
Constantinople, and is situated on the side of several

hills.

   The travellers delivered their letters of introduction,

and went to the principal dragoman, who treated them

in a very affable manner, and gave free permission for
their baggage to be passed untouched, " on the faith
of the ambassador." Mr. Black generously offered
them apartments in his own house on the hill, very
near Sir R. Liston's, as there was some risk at the
hotel, which they gladly accepted. In the evening
they dined, by invitation, at the English Ambassador's,
where they met a large party, and Mr. Allen had

much interesting conversation with Sir Robert. As
1819.]                        VISITS BEEYUK-TERE.                 297

they were leaving he invited them to dine with him
again the next day, and his lady added, " Come every

day while you stay, and walk in the grounds whenever

you like."

   "We went," says Mr. Allen, "through a large

burying ground, where there seems scarcely room for

another grave. A great number of the upright stone

slabs have a carved turban at the top, the form of
which varies according to the class of the deceased ;

those for women are plain. They bury the body just

under the surface, and without a coffin, placing only

some loose boards over the remains. This, of course,

renders the place very offensive, and occasionally the

effe"cit6tehx.t--endAsftetor  a considerable distance.  and  his  lady
                              breakfast, Sir R. Liston

sent for us to go with them in their boat to Beeyuk-

tere, the residence of all the diplomatic characters

here, except Sir Robert Liston. It is about fourteen

miles hence; we were rowed by seven Turks, each
with a pair of oars, and soon came to Leander's

Tower, from which one of the views of Constantinople,

as exhibited in the Panorama, is taken. The course

of the Bosphorus is so winding, that we seemed
passing through a succession of beautiful lakes, and

the prospects on each side were exceedingly fine. Sir

Robert took us to the different ambassadors, who

received us very kindly. When Baron Strogonof, the
Russian Ambassador, had read Prince A. Galitzin's

letter, he said that the Prince had desired him to show

us every imaginable attention, and he offered us all the

assistance in his power. Refreshments were set out
for us at the Spanish Ambassador's. We had much
'^98  ADJUSTS THE VOLTAIC BATTERIES.  [1819

conversation with his wife, and were struck with the
soundness of her remarks. Here we were joined by
the Austrian and Neapolitan Ministers, the latter,

Count Ludof, seems a sensible, agreeable man ; I was

glad to find that he was favorable to schools, and he

says they are preparing to establish one at Naples.
I had some talk with the Austrian Minister, who
thinks our plan would be very useful in several places
in his country. We thought this a very important

op"poi9rttuhn. --ity.W" ent over to Lady Liston to put her voltaic

batteries in order. I spent the morning in fresh ce

menting the cells, arranging the three troughs, making
hydrogen and oxygen, and preparing for the exhibi
tion this evening. Campbell, a young man who is a

visitor there, was very clever in assisting. At dinner

we had the Prussian Minister, the Austrian Secretary,
etc., etc. The troughs acted admirably, and we burnt
charcoal with great splendor, fired gunpowder, and
made other experiments.

   "The kindness of Sir Robert Liston, now advanced
in life, has been truly paternal. Lady Liston, also,

from our first meeting, has treated us with marked
kindness and attention. When we called to take leave
of them, Sir Robert gave us seven letters of recom

mendation, besides a general one."

   During his residence in this plague-infected city, it
is delightful to observe how graciously his mind was

preserved from tormenting fear, and sustained by
power from on high. Thus he records : -- " Though

in the midst of danger, I have no doubt of being in
1819.]           VISITS THE BEY EFFENDI.  299

the way of my duty. O, what a favor ! for if there

Ihad been doubts ncnv, what should do ? "

   As he started for Smyrna the same support is

vouchsafed. " I have been packing up my things and

preparing to set off, and have been humbled in reflect

ing how our merciful Saviour gives strength and

spirits and courage, equal to the day, and just when
they are most wanted. He never fails."

   And while     on board the  vessel on the 25th he thus
                 was tendered   in reading this passage in
writes : -- " I

the beautiful prayer of Solomon at the dedication of
the Temple, ' Blessed be the Lord, there hath not

failed one word of all His good promise.' No, His

faithfulness endureth forever, and the want of faith

fulness on our part, is the cause of all our miseries.
Remember this, O my soul ! "

On the 26th they arrived at Smyrna, which is

situated at the head of a fine bay, surrounded by

irregular hills. The first part of the city is inhabited

by the Greeks and Turks; the Christian, or Frank

quarter, is beyond this, and is much better. The

streets are narrow, and the houses are covered with

pantiles, like those of Constantinople. To their joy

they found, from some Englishmen who came on

board the vessel, that the city was now free from the

plague. They were introduced to the Bey Effendi, a

Turkish prince, the superintendent of the customs, a
man of strict integrity and liberality of sentiment, who

was so superior to Turkish prejudices that he took

precautions against the plague, which the illiterate
Turks consider as impious ; but he defended himself

by informing his countrymen that Mahomet, in the
300  INSPECTING PRISONS, ETC.  [1819

Al Koran, says that if you have to pass a wall that

leans, you are at liberty to choose your side, and need
not absolutely go under it. He invited them into a
large room, in the centre of which were placed a glass
of water and three very fine tuber roses. Pipes made
of wood, about four feet long, were brought them, after
that a cup of coffee, and then sherbet, in cut glass
bowls. The Bey seemed quite pleased with their visit.

   The two following days were chiefly devoted to the
inspection of prisons, schools, and hospitals, and by a
little timely aid, essential service was conferred upon
several of the prisoners. There are two Greek schools
in Smyrna; one for three hundred boys was endowed,
and placed under the direction of the English, but the
Scriptures were not read in either of the schools ; this
was a strong inducement to the establishment of the

British and Foreign system, to which some were

favorable.

   About half-past ten at night they embarked in a
boat for Scio; taking with them Martini, as servant,
who spoke French, Greek, Italian, and Turkish, --the

stars, which blaze very beautifully in the clear atmos

phere, shining gloriously. Mr. Allen thus describes
the perils of the voyage : --

   " We lay at anchor part of the night, and in the

morning our boatmen hoisted sail and proceeded;
but the wind proving too strong, they ran us into a
Bay in English Island. There being no trees, and

scarcely anything to afford shelter from the burning

sun, we put up our sail for a tent, brought our provi

sion box on shore, and boiled some water for our

breakfast. Not far from us were some arches, where,
1819.]  DANGEKS FROM BANDITTI.  301

at a remote period, a large city had evidently stood ;
some Turks or Greeks live in apartments at the end

of these ruins, and I was a little startled to see some

of them with sabres and large pistols stuck in their

girdles. Soon after we left the place, we heard them

firing : here we were --humanly speaking-- completely

in their hands; two boats, containing more armed

men, arrived ; and whilst I was walking about, a Turk

came up from the ruins. Our servant, Martini, had

disappeared, and there was no one to interpret; but I

accosted him with frankness, and he went into our

tent and sat down on the corner of the mattress where

Stephen was lying ; by this time another armed man

came up, and I then thought they might be some of

the banditti, mentioned to us by the Consul, who rob,

and then murder to make all sure. I thought it right

to betray no fear, and stood close to the principal one,
while he took out his cartridge, and primed and

loaded his pistol ; he then sat down and levelled it at
a little stone on a stake he had just set up ; he missed

his aim, charged again, and again missed. I did not

know but we might be his next mark, and tried to find

Martini, without going too far from the tent, but in
vain. The Turks kept charging and firing for some
time ; at length Martini made his appearance, and we

had some conversation through him. I believe their
object was merely to show us their feats, and to see if

we had any English pistols, which they value very

much. I told him, with much simplicity, that we

were a sort of people who never used them at all --
that we loved all mankind without distinction of

country or religion, and wished to do them good, and
C02 PREPAKKS GREEK SCRIPTURE LESSONS. [1819.

that we felt prohibited from doing injury to any;
after a good deal more conversation they went away."

    On this island, after repeated attempts to pursue
their course, they were detained three days. On the
fourth, the wind having abated, they made their
escape, and at half-past one arrived at Scio, a large
island containing about one hundred thousand in
habitants ; out of which there are eighty thousand
Greeks, who have more liberty there than in any

other part of the Turkish Empire. The mastic tree,

from which the gum is procured, is peculiar to this
island ; and the villages where it is cultivated are
privileged and free from imposts by the Turks.

    Guidici, the Consul, having invited them to lodge at
his house, as it was done heartily, they accepted his
kindness. They found that Neophite Bambas, who
had the superintendence of the education in town and
country of above 600 boys, Tiad begun to prepare first
lessons in spelling in common Greek, after the plan
of the British and Foreign School system. But as
the Scriptures were not read in the schools, Mr. Allen
hoped to induce him to adopt the Russian lessons;

and therefore after supper one evening, Stephen and
himself began to cut up two Greek Testaments, and
to paste the texts on paper, which occupied them till

midnight. All the following day they toiled at this

work, and finished the lessons from the New Testa

ment by twenty minutes past twelve at night. The

next morning they produced to Bambas the complete
set of Greek lessons. Astonished and delighted, the
good man exclaimed, " Surely Divine Providence has

sent you here." As he considered the translation
1819.]    CONFERENCES WITH THE ARCHBISHOP.                       303

imperfect, he engaged to correct the language and to

print them at presses and with type which had been

sent out to him from England. They had two confer

ences with the Archbishop, and much intercourse with

some of the principal inhabitants. The Archbishop

consented to become president of a School Society,

which the travellers induced them to form; and if

Bambas would print the lessons as a tract, they engaged

to raise  a subscription in England for  several hundred
copies.                                  rejoicingly, " be
           " It would," says Mr. Allen,

worth coming to    Greece for  wthreitsees,ob"jewctes   alone."  boat
   " On the 4th,"  Mr. Allen                           hired a

to take us to Athens. Our mattresses were laid upon

the ballast on deck, as in this climate and season there

is no fear of rain, and the sun holds on his course, from

morning till night, without a cloud. Our crew con
sists of four men, including the captain ; but they are

miserable sailors, for, though the wind was fair for us,

they thought it too strong, and we had not sailed

much more than an hour, when they came to anchor

towards the south end of the island, and here we staid

all day. A peasant prevailed upon us to go into his

little vineyard, where we sat down under the shade of
some rocks ; he brought a dish, a bottle of water, two

very large clusters of grapes, and some figs. He put

the fruit in water to cool and think hardly ever
                   it,

                          a

                        I

                             if

                                 I

                                                        ;
ate finer grapes. He could not read, but said his wife

could, and we promised him that he came down to

the beach we would give him Testament he accord

ingly accompanied us with great alacrity, running for

full three miles, without shoes or stockings, over
rough stones which hurt me through my shoes. lie
804  DANGER FROM PIRATES.  [1819.

received the Testament with the liveliest expressions of
gratitude, kissing Stephen's hand and putting it to his
head. This country affords a striking proof that san
guinary measures on the part of a government do not
protect the community, for though, under the Turkish
government, they think little of drowning eighty or a
hundred men in a night, as they have actually done

since we have been among them, yet assassinations

are common, and but lately a person coming from
Smyrna to Scio was murdered by the boatmen, merely
to get possession of one hundred and fifty piastres, or

about five guineas.

   " As we were passing very slowly in a dead calm,
between the islands of Andros and Tinos, the captain
saw a suspicious sail at the entrance of the channel
before us, and a long row-boat in company, full of
men ; they stood just in the middle of the passage,

but soon separated ; the sail went behind some high

rocks to the right, the other to the left, as if waiting

for us. The captain was in a great fright, and said
they were robbers ; they were still at a distance of six

or seven miles from us, but with my glass I could dis

tinctly see their manoeuvres. Our boatmen ceased

rowing for some time; the vessel again came out, as

if to see what we would do, and its motions were made
with such celerity, there being scarcely a breath of

wind, as to leave no doubt that they had oars and
many men. We hinted, through Martini, that perhaps
they were not robbers, and that we might risk it; but
all our crew united in saying that these pirates showed

no mercy, and always murdered when they robbed.

The captain was much agitated, when we saw through
1810.]  ARRIVES AT ATHENS.  305

the glass two or three more of these vessels come out

from behind the rock, and go backwards and forwards.

By this time the captain had determined to turn about

and seek a harbor; he had been very lazy smoking

his pipe before, but now he began to pull at the oars
in earnest. We had many miles to row before we

could get to Tinos, and were badly equipped and

manned, so that if the suspicious vessels had rowed

after us, in all human probability we should have been

an easy prey, but they still hovered about the point

of the rock. I kept watching them, and at length two

of them went across to Syra, and the others returned
to their lurking place. We gradually, by mere dint
of rowing, approached the corner of Tinos, and when

our men thought themselves safe, they again com

menced their smoking."
   The next day, in approaching the island of Zea, they

encountered a very heavy sea, and for two or three
hours their situation, Mr. Allen says, was awful, but,

the wind abating, they reached the harbor in safety.
   The unskilfulnessand idleness of the crew rendered

the voyage very tedious, occupying eleven days from

Scio ; but on the 24th of August they entered the port
of Athens, and were immediately hailed by Dr. Pin-
kerton, who, to the regret of all, was on the point of
starting for Constantinople. "We had," says Mr.
Allen, " a long way to ride before we reached Athens,
and were very much tired. Our baggage loaded five

asses and a horse. I rode an ass with cnly a halter

and no stirrups. We found a sort of an inn which

had been newly opened, where we have two rooms,
but no beds ; we, however, made use of our mattresses:
306 DESCRIPTION OF ATHENS. [1819.

this is the eleventh night since I have undressed to go

to bed.

   "Athens is surrounded by a low wall, in which are

several little gates; it stands in a plain, from whence
rises the hill on whose summit is the Acropolis or
citadel. In the afternoon we took a walk to visit

Mars' Hill, where the Apostle Paul preached to the
Athenians. It is a mass of rocks about one hundred

and fifty feet above the plain, and below the Acropolis,
which is much higher. The Areopagus was on the

same rock. A wall runs the whole length of this rock,

and that side which looks down upon Athens is Mars'

Hill. On the plain beyond, the academy where Plato
taught is situated. We now bent our course towards
the Acropolis, which is surrounded by a high wall,

and commands an extensive prospect. The principal
ruin is that of the Temple of Minerva, which is built
of fine squared blocks of exquisitely beautiful white
marble. The fluted pillars from sixty to seventy feet

high, are extremely grand, but I am sorry to say that

some Englishmen have barbarously defaced these
beautiful remains of antiquity, which had resisted the
effects of time, and escaped the hands of barbarians

for two thousand years."

   Mr. Allen inspected a grammar-school for boys
supported by the Athenian Society. His account of

it is by no means gratifying, and shows how valuable
his labors were at Scio :

   " I examined some of the books used in the school,

and was grieved to find how much the most essential
point of all in education is neglected. They teach
Socrates, Eusebius, Plato, and Xenophon, but not
1819.]  ARRIVES AT CORINTH.  307

Jesus Christ; commentaries on the Bible are taught,
but not the Bible itself. There are several little

elementary schools, kept by females, and in them

perhaps about four hundred maybe receiving instruc

tion ; but education is in a very neglected state here,
and no one seems to know much about it. The total

number of inhabitants is said to be eight thousand,
and about six thousand of them are Greeks."

   On the 28th they started for Corinth, with three

mules for their luggage, and three for their riding.

The first part of their road was over a great plain

partly cultivated with cotton and tobacco, and after
wards through an extensive wood of olive trees. On

their arrival at Lipsine they were accommodated at a
house which contained only a single room, with a
place parted off at one end for a horse and an ass.

At Megara, a place had been built upon the roof of a

house, quite open in front, where they laid their mat

tresses, and though exposed to any one who might
choose to come up out of the street to see them, they
lay down in their clothes, and fatigue made them

sleep very sweetly.
   On resuming their journey the following morning,

they passed over a high mountain, where the views

towards the Archipelago were very grand : JEg'ma
was at their feet, and the other islands scattered about
in all directions. On descending they reached the

plain between the Gulf of Lepanto and the Gulf of

Athens. Corinth lies in this plain, and is at the foot
of a rock, or rather two rocks united together. They
arrived about seven o'clock, and had a room at the
house of a doctor, where travellers usually go.
308  MORAL STATE OF THE PEOPLE.  [1819.

   Remaining only a short time in Corinth, they hired
a boat to convey them to Patras ; but the first part of

the voyage was so tedious and hazardous, that they

determined to go on shore, pursue their journey by
land, and procure mules to carry them and their lug
gage to Vostizza. The scenery was beautiful beyond
description : the road skirting the bay-- mountains
and rocks rising precipitously from the water myrtles
scenting the air, and growing wild as common bushes
in England --which was some compensation for travel
ling fifteen miles in six hours. On the 3d of September
they reach Patras, and procured information of the
moral state of the people, which proved to be deplor

able in the extreme. " If any country on the face of

the earth," writes Mr. Allen, " needs a system of

universal education more than another, it is Greece.

Their state of cruel subjugation has induced habits of

duplicity and lying to such a degree, that I am told

scarcely a Greek is to be believed here upon his most
solemn asseveration. When the Venetians held the

Ionian Islands, their avowed policy was to demoralize
the people as much as possible, and their wish being
to reduce the islands to such a state as not to render

them desirable by any other power, they purposely
excited quarrels among those who were rich, that they
might weaken one another, and licenses for assassina
tion were regularly purchased."

   Having dined with the Consul, and consulted with

Colonel Herries, the Quartermaster-General, and Pe-
trichc, the superintendent of the schools, on the best
means of advancing education, they started by boat
for Zante, and had permission from the officers to go
1819.]  ISLAND OF ZANTE.                          309

to the Lazaretto, to which they were rowed to performit,
                                     a
quarantine. Dr. Thomas, the head of the healtha
                                               a
department, would not let them go into the common
        is
Lazaretto, but sent for the keys of an old convent just
                                         ;
behind which has also garden, and had the rooms
swept out for them. He stationed a guard of soldiersis
to prevent all communication, and in this compara

tively comfortable prison they were to spend fifteen

days. As Colonel Herries and his party were there
also, and Plato Petrides, a Greek, who spoke English,

they appear to have spent very agreeable time in a
place renowned for disagreeable sensations. On the
1oth they were released from quarantine, and went to

occupy comfortable lodgings provided for them by
Dr. Thomas. Colonel Patrick Ross, the chief in
authority at Zante, gave them hearty welcome. He

was exceedingly desirous of seeing the plan of the

British and Foreign School Society adopted there,
and wanted information on the subject of prisons,
which encouraged Mr. Allen to hope that something
effectual might be done for the Ionian Isles, which

would act powerfully on all Greece.
    There very little extreme poverty in Zantc -- most

of the poor have a sufficiency, and many of them have
 small pieces of land they depend very principally
 upon the produce of their vines, the fruit of which
 the small grape without stones, which we call currants.
 They have also the common grapes, both white and
 red. The people are generally industrious and saving,
 and very tractable, so that they are easily led, either

 in good or evil course. They seem to have good
a
310            INSPECTS THE PITCH WELL.  [1819.

capacities, and are quick of comprehension, but are in

almost perfect ignorance.
   Here they went to see the famous " pitch well,"

said to be mentioned by Herodotus, some miles dis

tant from Zante, situated in a marsh about a quarter

of a mile from the sea. It is circular, about six feet

in diameter, and built up to the surface with rough
hewn stones. The bitumen appearing, just like tar,
rises to within about eight inches of the surface of the

water, which is beautifully transparent, and is covered
with a slight irridescent film. In the taste, nothing is
discoverable but a slight impregnation of tar. The
spring rising up through the tar occasions it to be full
of large bubbles. Dr. Thomas had two new stone

bottles brought, one of which was filled with the

water, the other with the bitumen ; the latter was very
thick. The water of the well was overflowing. The
depth of the bitumen is said to be three feet ; in some

years it has yielded sixty barrels. There is another
well, similar to this, about a quarter of a mile distant,

and probably there are some subterraneous branches

which go into the sea, for the water
               it,                       at times,

                              if

                                      it
                                                                  is,

                                                                              is
covered to some distance from the shore, with an irri

descent film.

The Jews are here treated with great contempt, and

would be grossly insulted  were not for the pro

tection of the British. There are about four hundred

who live by themselves, in a street which has a gate
at each end of and these gates are locked at eight
o'clock in the evening, for their security. This
another symptom of the uncivilized state of the Greeks.

   In this place Mr. Allen was attacked with the fever
1819.]  SERIOUS ILLNESS AT ZANTE.  811

so common in these islands, and on the 18th was
obliged to confine himself to the house. " Dr.
Thomas," he writes, " who is at the head of the health

department, attended me with the most unremitting
diligence ; but my confidence was placed in the Lord,
who was graciously pleased to comfort and support
His poor afflicted servant, and to give me an assurance

that I should yet see my beloved connections. I

retained, pretty steadily, the use of my faculties, and

though the poor body suffered more than I can

describe, my mind was preserved in sweet calm and
peace. One day, under a feeling of extreme bodily
weakness, my blessed Saviour suddenly poured in a
precious stream of consolation, which tendered me
much ; indeed, through the whole of this deeply trying

illness, the feeling of His love has been, I may say,

uninterrupted. I since find that at one time the

Doctor was so alarmed, that he requested dear Stephen
to give me a hint of the uncertain termination of this

illness, and that it would be well for me to settle any

thing that might require attention, whilst I had the

power ; but the disorder took a favorable turn. The

Governor, Colonel Patrick Ross, who has behaved to

me like a brother, had a large room prepared for me
in his own house, which commands an extensive view
of the sea. On the 24th he sent a sedan chair to have
me removed thither, and we remained with them until

we left the island.

  "As opportunities for getting to Malta are much

more frequent at Corfu, we concluded to go there in

a Government cutter, and I was the more inclined to
do so, as I did not seem likely to recover my strength
312  BEAUTIES OF CORFU.  [1819.

at Zante. We came on board between four and five

o'clock, having taken leave of our dear friend Colonel
Ross and his amiable wife, with feelings of love and

gratitude. I was so weak that I had to be supported

to the boat. As night came on the wind rose, and we
were sadly tossed. About two o'clock a tremendous
storm of thunder and lightning commenced ; the rain

descended in torrents, unlike anything we see in

England, and this continued till nearly daylight, but I

was sweetly supported in the midst of the tempest.
The next day, the wind being contrary, we were
obliged to put into a port in Cephalonia, where we
lay until the 1 5th inst. We afterwards met with calms
and light winds, so that it was the 17th before we
reached Corfu. Martini was quite sea-sick, and of no

use to us ; but a sergeant on board was very civil, and
offered us one of his men to wait upon us, which we

gladly accepted. I was sorry to find, on our arrival,

that Sir Frederick Adam was absent ; but Dr. Skey,
whom I had known in England, came on board and
kindly insisted on taking us to his house. This was

a real comfort. Again our Divine Master has provided

for us, just at the needful time, for I was sinking from
mere exhaustion, but here I have everything just as I
have been used to have it. I have not had such an
appetite since I left England, as I have now.

   " The country is very fine, which way soever we turn,

and the Albanian mountains in the background, the

water, islands, and cultivated country, afford a beauti-

tiful landscape; vegetation is everywhere luxuriant.
The people are dirty in their persons; they seem,

however, industrious, and if they had but the blessings
1819.]  DIVINE LOVE.  313

of education, including, of course, a knowledge of the
Scriptures, their improvement would doubtless be

rapid and striking.
   " While at Corfu, a young man, a physician, a native

of Santa Maura, arrived, and brought with him a set
of spelling lessons, in Greek, which had been printed

at Paris, and beautifully executed. They are come
just in the right time; and, what is more, the physician
is sufficiently master of the plan to organize a school

himself. All this seemed providential, nor less so

how the Greek spelling lessons came to be printed.

A very rich person, named Rossetou Rosnobanou, of

Jassy, in Moldavia, was at Paris, and was so much
struck with the importance of the system of mutual
instruction for the general education of the poor, that
he resolved to take measures to introduce it into his

own country, and among the Greeks. He engaged a
young Greek, of the name of Kleoboulou, to learn the
plan at Paris, on the condition that he should spend a
whole year in Jassy, in establishing it there. The
gentleman was at the expense of twelve thousand
francs in the moulds cut out for the type of the Spell

ing and Reading Lessons." .
   The whole time of Mr. Allen's residence in this

island was occupied in interviews with the Governor,
Sir Thomas Maitland, Sir Frederick Adam, the Greek
Archbishop, Dr. Gadiano, and the chief persons of
influence, to interest them in the cause of the Bible

and education. It is very delightful to witness the
liveliness of his piety in the midst of temptations from
flattery and the great. How beautiful the sentiment
he records on this island :--
314       VISITS MALTA.                                                                   [1819.

   " How insipid are all the gratifications and pleasuresit,
of this world, in comparison with the enjoyment ofis is
the divine presence and love ! This only is worth
living for --everything else will leave us ; dearest
relations and most intimate friends must drop off, but
if we are united in Jesus, it will only be a temporary

nseitpyartaotiosntr.engOth,enhowthisoubgohntdw! e" to seize every opportu

   On the I4th of November they sailed for Malta,

arrived in the harbor on the ipth, and were welcomed

by the Rev. W. Jowett, of the Church Missionary
Society. Malta is healthy, there are vast numbers of

old people in and the population rapidly increas
ing, though the misery of the poor great, and many

beggars crowd the streets. Colonel Maitland, the
deputy-governor, showed Mr. Allen the coats of mail
and complete suits of armor worn by the ancient
Knights of Malta.

    When dining with Sir Richard Plaskett, Mr. Allen

strongly urged his educational scheme, and besought
him to allow the use of rooms in the old Naval

 Hospital, admirably adapted for the purpose. But on

 conversing with the chief secretary about the room

being appropriated to this object, there was evidently

   hesitation on his part, lest the measure should not
be sanctioned by the Governor. This of course
 awakened surprise, as at Corfu, Sir Thomas had sent
'for Mr. Allen, and seemed quite in earnest for the

 plan which he submitted to him but was afterwards
 quite plain that liberal exertions and combinations of

 individuals to do good were not countenanced in that
a

                                                                                       ;

                                                           it

quarter.
1819.]  THE HOUSE OF THE INQUISITION.  315

  " I am really grieved," observes Mr. Allen, " when
I see, both at Corfu and in this island, so many persons

ready to come forward to promote a great and
acknowledged good, thwarted and kept in check by
the very man who, from his situation, ought to be the

first to encourage them."
   The prisons at Malta afforded a dismal picture of

the depravity of the human heart, both as it regarded

the inmates and the punishments inflicted upon them.

In the time of the knights the torture was inflicted in
these horrible dungeons. The House of the Inquisi

tion is a large square stone building, now occupied by

the military ; they have walled up the descent to the
region of horrors, but the Government ought to have
kept it open, to show the mischief of permitting eccle

siastical tyranny. Three dismal rooms in particular,

up stairs, perfectly answer to the description given by
Catherine Evans and Sarah Cheevers, who were im
prisoned here in the year 1675. When the doors are
shut, these rooms must in summer be almost stifling.

   Upon the walls of some of the places of worship
here, there are large carvings of human figures, naked
to the middle, in flames ; this is to raise sympathy for
souls in purgatory. The superstition and bigotry of

this place are great, but they are a mild people, and

might easily be led and enlightened.
   After surveying St. Paul's Bay, where it is generally

agreed the Apostle was shipwrecked, they went on
board the Kate on the 8th December for Civita

Vecchia. " About noon, on the Qth," Mr. A. writes,
" we had Mount Etna on our left, and were rather
anxious, as it was dark when we reached the Pass of
316 PASSES BETWEEN SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS. [1819.

Faro; the lights of Messina were on our left, and at
length we went safely between the Scylla and

Charybdis of the ancients, for which I felt thankful.
I regretted passing these interesting places in the dark.

About midnight, the Captain came to my berth to
inform me that we could see Stromboli, a burning
mountain in the sea, and one of the Lipari Islands,

and that occasionally there were flashes of light. I
rose and went on deck ; the moon had just risen, I

could discern the island, and watching it attentively

for a long time, I saw two emissions of light, some

what like phosphorescent clouds ; but it seems that
we are on the wrong side of the island for viewing

this phenomenon."
   On the 1 3th the vessel was moored in Civita

Vecchia, but to their mortification they learned that
instead of a week their quarantine was to be for

twenty-one days ; the time was, however, very
pleasantly and usefully passed, for Mr. Allen devoted
it to two objects, preparing the Italian Scripture Les

sons and studying Rio's tables. " I made myself," he

states, " completely master of the lunars."
   The 2d of January, 1820, orders were issued for

their release from quarantine, and the next day Mr.
Allen, in company with his fellow traveller, Dr. Baird,
proceeded to Rome, which he thus briefly describes :

   " The walls are not so high as I expected, and there

is nothing at all particular in the gateway, which is a
simple arch. There was a slight examination of the
baggage, and a soldier was placed upon the trunks
behind, until we came to the custom-house, where they
just opened some of them, but soon passed every-
1820.]  DESCRIPTION OF ROME.  817

thing. The streets in Rome are narrow, the houses

are high, brick, and plastered, and there are no foot

ways. As we went through the square in which
Trajan's Pillar is situated, we saw a procession of
about twenty or thirty persons, in white, with white

veils, whether men or women I could not tell, then a

number followed with white cloaks over a black habit;

they stopped occasionally and chanted, then followed

a coffin carried by men, with a rich black velvet pall,

ornamented with escutcheons, and in front a massy
piece of silver plate ; on each side of the coffin were
a number of persons dressed in white, and carrying
lighted wax candles of a large size. The famous

building called St. Peter's is at the northern extremity

of the town ; I ventured in without taking off my hat,

and saw the interior of this wonderful edifice ; the aisle

would hold many thousand persons, but everything

is in such just proportion that, at first, we were not so
much struck with the magnitude of the place, as we

were on a nearer examination ; when comparing the
colossal parts with the diminutive appearance of the
people walking on the pavement, we acquire a correct
idea of this surprising structure. The figures are
beautifully sculptured in marble. We passed the
tower of St. Angelo, and crossed the Tiber, a narrow
muddy stream, winding among the houses. The
Capitol is merely a little hill or rising ground, ascended

by steps, at the top of which are two colossal marble

figures with each a horse by his side, to represent Castor
and Pollux. In the middle of the square is an. eques
trian statue, in bronze, of Marcus Aurelius; passing
this, we come to the triumphal arch, at the bottom of
318  THE TARPEIAN ROCK.  [1820.

the Hill of the Capitol, erected in honor of Septimus

Severus, and then is seen the space where the assem

blies of the people were held, the Forum Romanum.
Here we see the Triumphal Arch of Titus, and, still
farther on, that of Constantine on the right, and on the
left, the magnificent ruins of the amphitheatre called
the Colosseum, said to be capable of holding eighty

thousand spectators. The Pantheon, I believe, is the

most perfect temple now remaining, many of the rest

having only two or three pillars standing. These fine
ruins were half buried in rubbish until Bonaparte
ordered them to be cleared. After visiting the work
shop of the famous sculptor, Canova, where we saw

statues in all their stages, some nearly finished, ex

tremely beautiful, we went to the palace of the Vatican,

which contains the museum and library ; this alone,

in order to be completely seen, would require more

than a week. Here are galleries five hundred yards
long, some containing inscriptions of remote antiquity,

which have been dug up from time to time, and are

ingeniously let in so as to compose the sides of the
walls. Some contain a number of statues, the master

pieces of antiquity, others paintings, etc. We saw the
Apollo Belvidere and the Laocoon. The Tarpeian
Rock, from which the Romans used to throw

criminals, is now surrounded with houses, and does

not look at all like a rock. The precipice is only sixty

or seventy feet ; after what I had read of it in Roman
History I was a good deal surprised on seeing it.

From the entrance to Rome, called the Gate of the

People, the city shows to most advantage."

   Mr. Allen had several interviews with La Rasi, De
1820.]  ARRIVES AT FLORENCE.  319

Pretys, and the Sardinian Minister, on the subject of
prisons and schools ; and believing that at least the

way was opened for something to be done, they started
for Florence about noon, in a heavy coach guarded by

two dragoons, and were soon in the Corso, the princi

pal street in Rome. Going out at the Porto del
Populo to the Flaminian Way, they passed Nero's

Tomb, about five miles from Rome, with the Ap-
penines on the right. The reflection of the sun from

the snow and the mountain scenery were superbly
grand. The roads were heavy and the carriage incon
venient, so that the journey was rendered very

fatiguing. As they entered Tuscany, the ground ap
peared under garden cultivation. Though the valleys in
many places were beds of torrents, the fields were cul
tivated for wheat --the olive, mulberry,' and vine, were

growing in luxuriance ; and in the immediate neigh
borhood of Florence, lime-yards and gardens, hills
and mountains abounded, giving Mr. Allen the im

pression that it must be a delightful place in summer.

    On the 8th they reached Florence, and put up at

the New York Hotel, where, in settling with the
courier, Mr. Allen found, what many continental

tourists have since discovered, that there was a regular
system of extracting as much money as possible from

travellers.

   Florence is esteemed the Athens of Italy ; but the
purest Italian, it is said, is spoken at Sienna. It does
not appear that Mr. Allen spent any time in examining
its specimens of magnificent painting and sculpture.
What time he had to spare was almost exclusively

devoted to interest influential persons in more fully
320  THE MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY.  [1820.

carrying out universal knowledge and piety. He
found here a school on the British and Foreign plan,
containing two hundred and fifty boys, and appears to
have been much pleased with its management. His
attention was especially attracted by the Museum of
Natural History, which he describes as " a magnificent
establishment, containing a great number of rooms,
each appropriated to its peculiar objects. We were
first shown the anatomical preparations in wax, which

were beautifully exact; the muscles, tendons, and
bones, are exquisitely imitated. The heart, with its
cavities, etc., is shown most admirably. In other
apartments are plants exactly modelled in wax, stuffed
birds, objects of comparative anatomy, the silk-worm
in all its stages, &c. There are also collections of

minerals. I could have spent a week here with

pleasure."
    Mr. Allen saw Count Bardi also at the museum.

Nesti showed him the first telescope of Galileo, and
several curious old instruments of the famous Academy

del Cemento, which held its meetings in the Palace

Pitti.

    During his stay at Florence, it was unusually cold.
The inhabitants carried little pots of charcoal to keep
their fingers warm as they walked the streets. The
river Arno was choked with ice, a thing of very rare
occurrence -- not very tempting weather to cross the
Alps. It happened that a chariot and horses had just
brought some English from Geneva, and the driver
wanted a fare back. They engaged him to take them
 thus far on their way home ; and when the roads were
tolerably cleared of snow, on the 1 6th, they started in
1820.]  MILAN CATHEDRAL.  321

a mizzling rain, and slept that night at Les Masques,
situated in the midst of an amphitheatre of mountains
sublimely beautiful. The Pope's agents examined
their baggage as they re-entered a small portion of

his territories on leaving Tuscany, and finding some

pamphlets and books, he demanded a large sum for

giving permission to take them, but being refused, he
sent a soldier, armed, all the way with them to
Bologna, whom Baird called " the Defender of the

Faith!" On the i8th they arrived at Bologna.
Their road now was the ancient Emilian way. From

Castel Franco, a soldier was sent to walk by their side
till they crossed the frontier of the Pope's dominions.

On the i9th they lodged at Modena, the following
day at Parma, and the 2ist at Placenza. On the 22d

they crossed the Po, a considerable river about a
quarter of a mile broad, on a long wooden bridge,
supported by boats. After breakfast they went to

see the famous bridge which Bonaparte forced in the
beginning of his career, and at a little after five arrived

at Milan, which Mr. Allen thus represents :--
   " Milan is a large city, containing 130,000 inhabi

tants. Some friends took me, as they said, to see a

very fine view, the day being remarkably bright and

clear, but I soon found myself at the door of their
magnificent Cathedral. I gave them my reasons for
wishing to decline entering, because I could not take

off my hat; but they insisted on my going in, saying

the people were liberal ; no one said anything, though
some looked very hard at me. There is not such
another edifice in the whole world ; it is built of

marble from the Alps, and is in the Gothic style, most
322        PROFITABLE INTERCOURSE.              [1820.

richly ornamented with carving, both without and

within. The very pinnacles were highly finished.

There are above two thousand stone figures, many of
them colossal ; it is only inferior in size to ' St. Peter's'

at Rome. I never saw anything so grand as the

external decorations ; the view from the top is magnifi

cent, and perhaps unique. Milan lay at our feet, and
the extensive flat plains of Lombardy were stretched

out to the feet of the Alps, which we saw distinctly in
the horizon. Mount Rosa appeared the highest --

next to    on the right, Mount Simplon, and next
it
                it,

                                          is
                                               a

                                                                                                                               ;
Mount St. Bernard, with many others. In the interior

of the Cathedral were several places parted off, in
which a number of boys were seated, and a person

was addressing them, apparently with 'great earnest

ness. The promenade  very broad street, with

excellent houses, and a good footway of flag stones

makes a circuit round the city of nine miles."

   Here Mr. Allen found two schools on the British
and Foreign system, --one for three hundred boys,

and another established by Signor Count Frederigo
Confalonieri for two hundred children. After profit

able intercourse with the Count Monpiani, Giovanni

Battista Ducca, and Joseph Pecchia, on religious and
benevolent objects, they left Milan on the 25th, and
in their "tedious way of travelling," reached Turin on

the 2;th.

   On the 28th they lodged at Suza. The next
morning they proceeded to the pass of Mount Cenis,

through an archway made by Bonaparte, at its

entrance. On fine day, the prospects would havea
been extremely grand, and the risk far less, but iho
1820.]           THE PASS OF MOUNT CENIS.          32-3

weather was misty and cloudy. The road is at least

ten yards broad, and though this pass was formerly

very dangerous, and toilsome, Napoleon's engineers

have made it as easy and as safe as, under the circum

stances, was possible. The precipice is mostly

defended by a low stone wall, or by square pillars,

connected together by very strong wooden bars. The

innumerable marks of boring, by which the rocks were

blasted, bear ample testimony to the prodigious labor

bestowed. Against the perpendicular face of one of
the rocks, there is a collection of columns of icicles,

about one hundred feet high. It looks as if a vast

river had been pouring down, and had become

suddenly frozen ; the shorter columns below are very
much like the boiling up of the water, in consequence

of falling from   such a height ;  part of it was  of a sky
blue color. "    This was," says   Mr. Allen, " a
                                                   magnifi

cent spectacle, and is the finest thing of the kind we

have yet seen. On looking down over the edge of

the precipice, notwithstanding the mist, we can see

the foad we have travelled for a considerable distance,

and its1 turnings and windings are very curious. The

pigmy horses and carriages toiling up below us, had

a very pretty appearance. At half-past eleven we

arrived at the top of the pass, in a sort of plain five or

six miles long; though the highest part of the pass,
it is by no means the top of Mount Cenis-- the

prospect must be grand indeed in fine weather. In

descending, we saw drifted snow upon shelving rocks,

overhanging us, so I see how avafanches are formed."

They set off by moonlight on the 3ist, between

three and four in the morning. As they approached
324  ARRIVES AT GENEVA.  [1820.

La Chapelle, the sun beautifully gilded the tops of the
Alps. When the evening approached they were

favored, as they crossed the bridge over the Isere,
with one of those magnificent scenes which no human

pen can describe, -- Mont Blanc beautifully reflecting
some of the last beams of day. At Chambery, Dr.
Baird left his companion for Paris ; and Mr. Allen

entered Geneva the next day. " On driving through

Geneva," he observes, "all my tender feelings were
aroused in the recollection of coming here with my

precious Charlotte, my ever dear companion, on the
eve of my great loss, and it affected me much, but all
sustaining help was near." After visiting and dining
with the Vernets, of whom he most affectionately
speaks, he tells us : " In the evening, Pictet took me

to the Natural Philosophy Society, where I met my

dear friend De la Rive ; Prevot, father and son ;

Durandole, the botanist; the blind Huber, who has

written such an excellent book on bees; Saussure;
and Necker." The following evening he heard
De la Rive lecture on light and electricity most excel

lently.

   As he was dining at Professor Pictet's, his friend

Stephen Grellet was announced, who gave him an
account of his proceedings; his interview with the

Pope, and the King of VVurtembcrg, and of the various

openings which Providence was making in the parts
he had traversed for the spread of Bible truth.

    On the day preceding his departure he went to say
farewell to his valued friend Pastor Vernet, "who is,"
observes Mr. Allen, "most active in the Genevan

Bible Society, and not tainted with the Socinian prin-
1820.]  INTERVIEW WITH PASTOR VERNET.  325

ciples which so lamentably prevail at Geneva, even

among some of the Pastors themselves. As we were
conversing together, I felt the precious covering of

Divine love spreading over us, and requested that we

might sit a little together in silence ; soon after, I

believed it my place to kneel down and supplicate for

this dear family, and I thought that the power of the
Spirit attended. M. A. V. was much affected. We

had a little pause afterwards, when her husband rose,

and took me affectionately by the hand, saying, that
he understood every word. We took leave of each

other, under feelings which, I believe, will be long

remembered."

   The next day he purchased a German chariot, and
started for Chalons-sur-Saone and St. Leger. After

passing Chatelet, he arrived at Meurice's Hotel, in
Paris, on February i7th. He found as many as eight
schools on the British system in the city alone, and
those in France amounted to upwards of 1 500 ! What
a reward for his exertions and those of his fellow-

laborers. On the 22d he left Paris, and reached

Dover on the 25th, thankful in being permitted to
return to his native country " with sheaves of peace."

" At half-past eight o'clock, on the 26th," he tells us,
" I arrived at the Crown Inn, Rochester, where I had

the inexpressible pleasure of meeting my beloved
child, and dear brother. Our hearts were filled with

humble gratitude to the Father of mercies, who had

so signally supported and preserved me in this arduous

engagement, and was restoring me to all that was

dearest to me in life. I surrendered up all into His
326  RETURN TO LONDON.  [1820.

hands, and He has returned it to me again with

interest.

   " Passing through London, we proceeded direct to

Dalston ; I found my dear aged mother in a feeble
Istate, but quite as well as had any reason to expect ,

she was contrited in humble gratitude to the Almighty
Preserver. After taking tea with her, my brother

Joseph drove us to Stoke Newington, where I was

joyfully received by my dear sister, Anna Hanbury,
and the rest of the family."
                     CHAPTER XIV.

     INTERVIEWS WITH THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA AT

                             VIENNA AND VERONA.

    IN consequence of the death of the illustrious Duke
of Kent, Mr. Allen's constant attendances on the com
mittee to whom the affairs of his Royal Highness
were entrusted now became necessary. After admin
istering to the Duke's estate at Doctor's Commons,
where he left on record his protest against the title of
the Archbishop of Canterbury, " The Most Reverend
Father in God," he devoted his energies to make the
best of that estate for all parties, as if it had been his

own personal business, until "a decree in Chancery"

was obtained, which enabled the committee to act

under the Lord Chancellor, and relieved him of great

care and responsibility.
   His efforts in the Christian ministry began now to

be more decided and enlarged. A deputation waited

on him in the month of May, stating that Friends had
believed it right to discharge him from the office of
Elder, and to record him as "a minister in society."

On this event he remarks.: " I am now placed in an

awful situation. May the great Preserver of men be
near to support and sustain under every trial, and pre
vent me from doing anything which may injure his good
and great cause." In the exercise of his ministry he

                                                    (327)
328                VISITS IRELAND.                               [1820.

felt it a duty to visit Ireland at the Friends' Yearly

Meeting in April. From Holyhead they sailed in the

Talbot, one of the first packets worked by steam

between England and      Ireland, and this was              nearly her
earliest trip, of which                                     staid upon
                         he says " Mary and I

deck, and the motion of the vessel, though at the rate

of eight miles an hour, was so steady that the deck

was like the floor of a room ;" but we have lived to

see vessels built which are equally steady at double

the speed.

   All the public institutions were of course visited

and inspected by Mr. Allen, of which he gives his

reports according to their individual merits, but the

Kildare-street Society for establishing  Schools in Ire
land had most of his commendation.       " The number

of schools which have received assistance from this

Society, or which have been instituted by amounts
                   I

                                          is
                                                            it,
to above 250. The Committee meets once a month,

and a regular correspondence        kept up with the

whole of Ireland.        was particularly pleased with

their system of publishing small interesting books for

school libraries, which are intended to supersede those

pernicious publications that are at present so generally
circulated among the poor. In the books issued by

this Society, which already amount to eighty volumes,

everything sectarian     avoided." Several times he
                   offer " in'
                   the text
                         is
                                                         a
"Ihad "something to            "mWinhisattryshtoallhitsheayssedmo bwlehdo

brethren, once from
are baptized for the dead?"         pointed to the only

way by which we can be raised out of state of death

by Him who said, He that believeth on me yet shall
he live.' " The whole of the meetings for worship and
1820.]  THE SPIRIT OF PRAYER.  3'29

discipline seem to have been attended with a divine

influence. Of the last he remarks : " It felt to me a

heavenly season, and I believe will be long remem

bered by many who were present."
   The spirit of prayer with which he entered on his

ministerial work was likely, under any ecclesiastical

system, to bring down the influence to which he so
often alludes. Every minister of Christ who reads the
following entry will heartily enter into the spirit of the
writer, and add his fervent amen to the petitions pre
sented to the great Head of the Church :

  "jfst. -- My mind is rather harassed with the pres
sure of things, which I cannot find time to get through ;

add to this, the enemies of my own house are lively

and strong. A sense of my unworthiness raises the
frequent aspiration that I may be washed and made
clean. I prayed this morning that Satan might be

bruised under my feet, and petitioned for help, which

I trust was granted. O, that I may try to practice
what, at times, I think myself constrained, by gospel

love, to preach to others ! Dear Lord, let me not
bring reproach upon thy holy cause ! what an awful

situation I stand in as a minister of the everlasting
gospel !-- what need have I to pray continually for

preservation !"

   His visits to the families of the congregation, where

he engaged in religious exercises, and gave holy
counsel as the circumstances of each required, were
very acceptable, especially among the young. And it
appears that his sound practical wisdom and affection
ate spirit well qualified him to be a comforter to them
that mourned, and " to the solitary ones " of God's
330  LETTER TO PRISCILLA GURNEY.                                                                           [1821.

household, while his zeal for God did not allow the

careless and lukewarm to go unwarned, or uninvited
to return to their Father. The following letter to
Priscilla Gurney, of Eastham, will showahow well he
could administer the cup of consolation to the afflicted

and dying :

            " Plough Court, Second Month ijth, 1821.is,
                                     a
" SISTER, BELOVED IN THE LORD :
                                                                                       '
   " Thy precious innocent spirit feels very near to me
in the fellowship of the Gospel of our dear Redeemer,;
'who having loved His own who were in the world,
loved them unto the end! My heart glows with theI
belief, that thou art one of those whom He hath loved,;
and still loves, whom He wills should be with Him
where He even in His glory. Take courage then,
and though thou wilt feel the flesh to be weak, and

though the enemy may, for short season, attempt to
create dismay, yet as thy soul continues to be deeply
anchored in God,' thou wilt know the accuser of the
brethren to be cast down forever. Let faith and

patience have their perfect work recline upon the
breast of thy Beloved cast all thy cares upon Him,
for He careth for thee, and firmly believe, that when
the frail tabernacle breaks down, thy precious immortal
spirit will be presented before thy Redeemer's throne
of glory with exceeding joy. Farewell Farewell in
the Lord and thou shouldst be enabled, pray that
thy poor weak brother may be preserved to the end.

             " Believe him ever affectionately thine,
                                              " WILLIAM ALLEN."
     !

             if
                                                                                                        !
1821.]  MRS. FRY WITH THE PRISONERS.  331

    His extensive journey in the North of Europe had
materially increased his correspondence, and foreign
visitors now flocked to his house in great numbers.
He once accompanied the Marquis Pucci to Newgate
to meet Mrs. Fry, and see her course with the pris
oners. On a similar occasion he took with him Jowett
and his wife from Malta ; Reid, the surgeon, from New
South Wales ; and John Venning, from Petersburg.
He thus describes the scene:

   " E. J. F. read to the prisoners ; there was a solemn

silence afterwards. She then knelt down in supplica
tion, and proceeded with such clearness, sweetness,

depth and power, that my tears flowed freely, and I

believe all were affected. Jowett followed, and com
mented upon the portion of Scripture which had been

read, in a very agreeable manner. I then felt it right

to convey counsel and warning, under a feeling of
much love and sympathy. The prisoners behaved

exceedingly well, and before we came away dear John
Yenning addressed them, and afterwards Reid, the
surgeon. The Lord's power was eminently felt over
all."

   Immediately on his return to this country he
despatched a quantity of valuable seeds for the gar
dens of the Mcnnonites and Malakans, in whom he

had become so much interested. An Englishman, of
the name of Horton, whose medical engagements led
him to the south of Russia, having visited the garden

at Ekaterinoslav, thus introduces himself to the notice
of Mr. Allen, in a letter, dated 2ist December, 1821 :

   " You will no doubt be surprised at receiving a
332  THE GARDEN AT EKATEK1NOSLAV.  [1821.

letter from a perfect stranger, living in the government
of Ekaterinoslav, in the Russian Empire.

   " Professional circumstances obliging me to pay a

visit to the said capital, I met with an acquaintance, a

Mr. Contineas, in every point of view a most estimable
man. He made you a material subject of his conver
sation, and requested me to pay a visit to the garden
of the Crown, at the same time assuring me how much
he, as well as every one connected therewith, was

indebted to you for the liberal assistance which you

have afforded, by supplying them, at various periods,
with seeds, otherwise impossible to be obtained.

  " I shall be happy if I am the means of giving you
any satisfaction, when I assure you that the said

garden has made a material progress by your assist

ance, and I am at the same time glad to say, that

gratitude on the part of the director, etc., has been

your reward.
   " There has been an official act passed, by which

means your name will be perpetuated in this country ;
that act has allotted a piece of ground in the said
garden, as a nursery, in which there is erected a neat
monument, bearing your name.

   " As being a countryman, I naturally feel proud in

giving you the said information."
   Finding the continental work too heavy for him, he

proceeded to form an association chiefly of Friends, to
open a correspondence with the continent and parts
abroad, to find out and keep open channels for the
circulation of books and tracts explanatory of the
religious principles of Friends, and to collect and dif
fuse information on subjects interesting to humanity
1821.] RUSSIAN LESSONS UNIVERSALLY ADOPTED.  333

without regard to sect or party. Eleven Friends

agreed to meet periodically at each other's houses for
this purpose. His pursuit of his favorite object, the

education of the poor in the principles of the New
Testament, became more intense as the success of his

continental appeals on its behalf was more apparent.

He tells Count Papof: "You will be glad to hear that

the Russian Scripture Lessons are now in train to be
printed in all the languages of Europe, where there
are schools on the plan of the British and Foreign
School Society, and happily now there is scarcely a
country in the world where they do not exist." This
was indeed a glorious and singular reward of his
industry and devotion to the cause of education at

Petersburg.
   Sarah Kilham, the daughter of Hannah Kilham, a

highly useful and pious member of the Society of
Friends, thought it her religious duty to go to Peters
burg and offer her services to conduct a model school
for two or three hundred poor girls, provided the
Emperor sanctioned the effort. She kept a school at
Sheffield, and was doing exceedingly well, but was
willing to sacrifice everything to the apprehension of
duty. Mr. Allen believed her motives wholly disin
terested, and that she was capable of being a blessing
to Russia, by training mistresses for schools through
out the empire, and therefore strongly commended
her to the Emperor's notice. The Emperor granted

her an audience, and decided to establish a girls'
school on the British and Foreign system, of which
the Empress Elizabeth undertook to become the
patroness. Mr. Venning afterwards reported that
334  HOSTILITY TO EDUCATION.  [1821.

Sarah Kilham assisted him in a school for poor little
foreign boys who used to beg about the streets, which
the Emperor had encouraged him to establish. After
a few months it contained one hundred and twenty

boys, and the progress they made was wonderful.
   Reports from the scenes of his visitation were, how

ever, of a very mixed character. By letters from
Petersburg, he had reason to fear that " feelings hostile

to education were getting in there." A spirit of

bigotry so far prevailed at Vienna, as to accomplish
the shutting up of the schools at Milan, the Emperor
of Austria having a terror of improvement. While

Count Romanzoff was building schools over all his
estates, and sending monitors from the Hamel estab
lishment to take care of them, the enemies of educa
tion worked on the prejudices of some, and the fears
of others, to impede this great and good work in other
parts of Russia. The Turks shut up the schools
established at Smyrna and Scio, and drove away or
murdered their supporters. They beheaded the old

Patriarch at Constantinople, and poor Bambas, who
took such an interest in their formation, was obliged
to flee for his life to Hydra. Dr. Politi writes from
Santa Maura respecting a school which he had com
menced there on the British system with twenty

children :

  "I have endeavored to dissipate gross prejudices

against this beautiful system, which have, unhappily,
been excited by the enemies to the education of the
poor; but although my efforts in the school have-
been crowned with the most complete success, yet
the rapid progress of the children, with the increased
1821.]  COURAGE UNDER TRIALS.                                                        335

attendance at the school, seems only to add to the
malignant feelings of the rich, who have refused to

pay wliat they had promised ; our institution there
fore, in great danger of sinking."

   By the encouragement of Sir Frederick Adam, Dr.

Politi pjrsevcred against the most disheartening ob
        a
stacles, and three months afterwards, Lord Guildfordis,

reported, on his return to London after a tour in thea

Greek islands, that two schools were then established,

and that government patronized them and paid the

expense. In France, the priests succeeded in putting
down some of the schools, but the Chamber of Depu

ties notwithstanding, gave them their firm support.

But opposition came from quarter least expected.
Mr. Brougham, who had assisted in the formation of

the British and Foreign Society, brought forward bill
in Parliament, to place the business of the education of
the poor exclusively in the hands of the clergy.
" Such an innovation," Mr. Allen remarks, " upon the

principles of religious liberty had, perhaps, never been
attempted, except in the case of Lord Sidmouth's bill,
since the days of Queen Anne."

   Yet his courage never failed. Enough good had

been done to show him that the hand of the Lord had

conspicuously succeeded his efforts, and he deter

mined to proceed with new energy. .Accordingly
when the funds of the Society had been more than

exhausted, he and others were about to ask the

bankers to advance a few hundred pounds but recol
        a

                              it
                                                                                  ;
lecting that such a sum could not extricate " the
concern " from its difficulties,
                                  was proposed that

they should adopt bo'd measure, and raise the sum
336 OBJECT OF INTERCOURSE WITH NOBILITY. [1821.

of five thousand pounds, which would pay all arrears
of the buildings and advances; then, bringing up the
annual subscriptions to one thousand five hundred

pounds per annum, they might go on comfortably.
This suggestion was cordially adopted ; they began
their canvass, and in one morning received four con
tributions of one hundred pounds each.

   The public meeting of the Society greatly encour
aged him, he states: "Rose at six: my mind was
comforted with the presence of the Lord on waking
this morning, and access to him was granted in prayer.

I went to the Freemasons' Tavern to the British and

Foreign School Anniversary. The Duke of Sussex
came punctually to take the chair; W. Wilberforce,
Lord Suffield, T. S. Rice, M. P., W. Evans, M. P., the
Duke de Broglie, the Baron de Stael, the American
John Randolph, Phillipe Ugoni, from Italy (the friend
of Monpiani, who is now in prison for his liberal

opinions), J. Brechet, also from Italy, the friend of

Count Porro: audience highly respectable. The whole

business went off" very well."
   His intercourse with persons of rank and influence,

though doubtless he esteemed their notice and regard,
was not for personal aggrandisement, but to give a
favorable bias to the powers of usefulness which they
possessed. .The spirit of active benevolence which
Lad)- Olivia Sparrow had manifested in the establish
ment of schools, and the construction of cottages for
the laboring poor, led her warmly to espouse Mr.
Allen's plans, and after an interview at Brighton, she

maintained to his death constant communication with
him on these and other important plans.
1821.]  CONTINUED LECTURES.  337

   The industry of Mr. Allen admitted of no diminu
tion with advancing years. He took lessons in the

Russian language, and daily devoted an hour and a
half before breakfast to French and German. The

lectures at the Hospital, though he wished to give
them up, were continued at the request of others. He

commenced the course for 1820-1821, on the nth of

November, on experimental philosophy, with the

" room excessively crowded -- went off well." On the
8th of May he gave his concluding lecture -- " during
the closing address the audience were as still as if it
had been a Friends' meeting." The next session he

again determined to give them up; but, he adds,
" the Treasurer of Guy's was earnest with me to con

tinue them. I have consented that he should announce
them, but I am to be left at liberty when the time
comes, whether I take part in them or not." When

the time came, we find him at his post of honor and

usefulness. On November 6th, he records :
   " First evening lecture at the Hospital. The theatre

was filled, and also the passages. I was cordially

received in the usual mode of expressing satisfaction,
and had no other way of checking the noise than by

beginning to speak at once. I was favored to get

through to my own comfort, and it seemed as if I

were assisted with a little best help."

   His astronomical pursuits were carried on with

equal vigor : " I made some beautiful observations

this evening with my astronomical circle, and have
completely succeeded, by Bailey's method of high
and low stars near together, in putting it into the
338  SOCIAL AFFECTIONS.  [1821.

meridian to the fraction of a second, so that now I

may be always sure of my observations."
   The next year he went to the visitation of the Royal

Society at Greenwich. After the survey, he dined at
Greenwich with the Prince of Denmark, the Marquis
of Lansdowne, Lord Melville, Lord Darnley, Lord

Aberdeen, Davy, Wollaston, Solly, Pepys, etc., but
his "mind was not in it," and bodily indisposition
prevented much comfort. The Horticultural Society
elected him a member of their body, from his knowl
edge of their special science, and his effoits in foreign

countries.

   By few persons were the social affections more
assiduously cultivated than by Mr. Allen. On one
occasion he speaks of being more " shut up and
reserved," than was common with him in the evening,

but his home circle could bear witness that such a

disposition of mind was indeed very unusual with him.
It was his constant aim to make all happy who were
within the sphere of his influence, and whilst his ex
pansive benevolence led him into a wide field of

Christian philanthropy, under no circumstances, per
haps, were the sweet influences of the Gospel more
conspicuous than in his evening intercourse with his
family, or in select society. Released from active
duties, his mind was more at liberty to enter into the
interests of social life, to sympathize with those around
him, to feel the fellowship of the spirit, and to partake

of that refreshment which comes from the presence of

the Lord.
   His daughter, who was a young lady of great

piety and good sense, made his home radiant with
1822.]  MARRIAGE OF HIS DAUGHTER.        339

gladness. How touching is the following  memoran
dum :--                                  child was

   " In our forenoon meeting, my dear

engaged in vocal supplication. My soul rejoiced in
this, her first public act of dedication in that solemn
line of service. After the second meeting, she ac

companied me to visit Jonathan B. Jermyn, who is
much indisposed. Mary spoke to him sweetly, and

I followed in prayer. Our spirits were comforted

together."

   In the following year she was acknowledged a

minister, with the unanimous concurrence of Friends,

and at its close, she consented to accept of Mr. Cor
nelius Hanbury's offer of marriage. On the Qth of
January, 1822, "at the Monthly Meeting, Cornelius

and Mary declared their intention of taking each other

in marriage; they both spoke very well." The mar

riage was solemnized at Devonshire House on the

2Oth of February. Mr. Allen says :--
   " The meeting was large ; a holy solemnity prevailed

during part of the time, and they repeated the usual

form in a very distinct and feeling manner. Our

precious E. J. Fry was sweetly engaged in supplica

tion, and some other Friends in ministry. After

meeting, Mary, Cornelius, and I, went to see my dear

mother, who was much affected at receiving us under

such circumstances, and uttered several lively expres

sions in blessing the dear children."

His mother, not many months before this event,

had a slight attack- of paralysis, but after medical

treatment, improved. " I went," says Mr. Allen, " to

see my dear mother, who described to me some of the
340  TENDERNESS OF HIS SPIRIT.  [1822.

feelings with which she had been favored in the night:
she seemed to have had a glimpse of the pure river of

water of life. I was affected, and told her I longed

that we could g<) together, for we seemed to have a
foretaste of the glory that shall be revealed, when this
mortal shall have put on immortality ; but, she said,
' No, no, there is more for thceto suffer and to do yet;
the Lord has a work for thee.' "

   During another visit he remarks : " She is waiting by
the side of Jordan till ' the shining ones ' which John
Bunyan describes arrive to conduct her to the other

side. Ah ! when my time comes, may I be equally

prepared ! She sweetly adverted to that anchor which
had held me in so many storms, and expressed he/
confidence that it would preserve me in all future

tempests."

   That she might be nearer to him, he removed her
to Stoke Newington, where, he says, -- " She is as com

fortable in her new house as outward things can make
her."

   The tenderness of his spirit to servants has before
been remarked. The following is a pleasing instance,
given with great simplicity : --

  "I discovered, I think I may say almost providen

tially, that an old servant of my mother's, who came

to live in the family when I was only four weeks old,

was living. She was always a pious creature, and
used to delight me when a child by singing hymns

and religious poems. I find that, in consequence of

the misconduct of a brother, she has been reduced to

great distress and want. I was quite affected, and
1822.]  DIFFERKNT MODES OF DEFENCE.  341

blamed her for not letting me know, for I was not

aware that she was living."

Mr. Allen's time was too precious to be squandered

away upon answers to every abuser of himself and the

plans he adopted for the improvement of the laboring

classes; therefore, while on one occasion we find him
closely engaged in writing an answer to the " Edin-
burg Review " on the subject of schools, because that

might have an influence on individuals whom it was

most important should be justly informed ; he adopts,

with great judgment, another course with a publication

of a different class :--

"Another number of the "Reformer" has been

handed to me, by which it appears that the editors
Ihave not yet done with me.
                             could reply easily

enough to their statements, but the spirit which dic

tated those animadversions must be sta>~>cct; it has a

life in controversy, and seems to me likely enough to

go on to Ranterism. I see that they are now abusing

the Baptist Missions, which, though not conducted

upon our principles, have nevertheless been productive
of much good. Divine Providence has a variety of

instruments at work tc break up the ground. I have

seen, in my travels on the continent, what large allow

ance must be made for education, habits, and circum

stances. Our Great Master alone knows how far the

Iheart is sincere; and believe many of those who have

been so harshly censured by the Radical Reformers

may appeal in this language, -- ' Though Abraham be

ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not, thou,
O Lord, art our father.' "

In August, 1822, he was impressed, he tells us, with
34:3 LETTER TO THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA. [1822.

the duty of meeting the Emperor Alexander at Vienna
or somewhere on the road, on his way to the Congress
of Sovereigns and Plenipotentiaries to be held at
Verona. Count Lieven encouraged him in his desire,
and his mother bore his announcement to her remark

ably well, and exhorted him to attend to the pointings
of duty. Before he left, he made known his intentions

to the Government, that he might set out with its
good wishes. He conferred with the Duke of Well
ington on the subject of the slave trade, and obtained
permission for letters to be sent to him in the Duke's
bag from London. In order that the Emperor might

not be taken by surprise, he wrote to him the follow

ing letter, to prepare the way :--

" To ALEXANDER THE FIRST, EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.

" Permit one who has felt deeply and affectionately

for thy present and future happiness to recall himself

to thy remembrance. Since the last memorable inter

view which Stephen Grellet and I had at Petersburg,

when our Heavenly Father was pleased to comfort us
together with the sweet feeling of his divine presence

and love : often, very often, have I been tenderly
drawn to visit thee in spirit, and, as I was enabled, to

raise the secret prayer for thy preservation ; but for
some time past, it has been impressed upon my mind

as a religious duty, to try to obtain another interview,

and this sense of duty has so increased, that I cannot

feel peace in my mind without giving up at least to

                  If,

                                     iIt,
make the effort.  however, any insurmountable

obstacles should occur to prevent          trust that my
1822.]  STARTS FOR VIENNA.  343

Great Master will favor me with peace in having made

the attempt.

  " I purpose, by Divine permission, to be at Vienna

about the 2Oth or 22nd of the present month, called

ISeptember, our style, and as shall have encountered

some fatigue, hazard, and expense, in the journey, may

I beg thee to admit me to an interview as soon as con

venient to thee, after my arrival, of which the Duke
of Wellington, the minister from our Government, will

be "aIpnpraisefrde.sh feeling, as I humbly trust, of the flow-

ings of Gospel love towards thee,

                              " I remain,

                 " Respectfully and affectionately thine."

   It was directed, according to the Emperor's wish,
" a sa propre main"

   Accompanied to the vessel by his friends, Bedford,

Barry, and Foster, he embarked on board the Talbot
for Calais, with his nephew Daniel. There he pur
chased a carriage, in which he proceeded to Brussels,
Liege, Battire, and Aix-la-Chapelle. From thence,
amidst very charming scenery, in the midst of gardens
and vineyards, with the Rhine on the left, he reached

Neuwied, a German town in the Prussian dominions,

where German only was spoken, but liberty in wor
ship enjoyed. Here he found a society of persons
which had existed upwards of one hundred years,
regulated by printed rules, terming themselves
Inspires, and agreeing very much with the Friends in
many of their peculiar tenets, but they differed in their

worship, as they had singing and stated prayer. They
844  ARRIVED AT VIENNA.  [1822.

       every evening in the week for prayer, as well as

twice on the Sabbath, and thought it was unlawful to

go to law at all, but that they ought to suffer patiently
all manner of injuries. Mr. Allen found upon inquiry

that the Inspires and the French prophets of the
Cevennes had one common origin. They have

regular annual assemblies for conference, attended by
deputies from distant parts, one of which was to be
held at Ncuwied in a few days. Here he engaged

Balthaser Narolsky, a converted Jew, as a servant and
interpreter, to accompany them to Verona. After
passing through Nuremberg and Ratisbon, when he
arrived at Scharding, the first town in the Austrian
dominions, all Mr. Allen's books and pamphlets were
taken, and secured in one parcel, which was to be
presented to the censor at Vienna, and receive his
sanction before any use could be made of them. The

parcel was sealed with a leaden seal, and a deposit was
required, amounting to nearly four Napoleons, to b;j

returned on being demanded at Vienna. Proceeding
through Lintz, Mijlk, and Buckersdorf, he reached
Vienna between seven and eight o'clock on the eve
ning of September 27th, and took up his temporary
abode at the London Hotel, where the following inci

dent occurred: --
   " In descending the great staircase, where the sol

diers were keeping sentry with fixed bayonets, I saw a

tall genteel person, in military uniform, covered with
gold lace, come out of a passage which communicated
with the Emperor's apartments : the guards presented

arms, and there was I with my hat on ; he was lower
down than I, and I hung back to give him time to go
1822.]  CONVERSATION WITH THE EMPEROR.  345

forward, but he halted, and looking back with a smil

ing countenance, said, 'Are you not an Englishman?'

I said I was, and gave him my card. ' O,' said he,

'you have been to see me in London.' By this I
found it was Prince Esterhazy ; he asked me why I
had not been to see him; I told him I was but just

arrived, and he then wished me to call upon him, at
his father's, to-morrow, which, though it was First-day,

I thought it right to engage to do."

   The Emperor of Russia was at the palace, and sent
a message by Baron Wylie, that he would see Mr.
Allen that evening at eight o'clock. When he went,
Prince Mctternich was with his Majesty, and at half-
past ten he sent to express his regret that it should
have happened so, but requested him to come the
next evening at the same hour. Let Mr. Allen now

relate the interview.
    " On entering the Emperor's apartment, he imme

diately advanced to meet me, and took me by the

hand, expressing the gratification he felt in seeing hie.
After conversing a little, he made me sit down by him,
and said he had nothing, to do all the evening but

attend to what I had to say. He asked whether we
should first pray together. I replied, that having

several subjects to speak upon, which might be con

sidered as of an outward nature, if he pleased we would

discourse upon them first, and then take a little time for

retirement ; but I left it entirely to his decision, whether

this should be first or last, and he was quite willing

that I should proceed. Not knowing whether this

Imight not be the only opportunity of seeing him, I

put down the subjects on which wished to speak
316  CONVERSATION WITH  [1822.

with him. The first was the colonies. He told me

that there had lately been a great accession to the

number of the Mennonites from the neighborhood of

Dantzic, and that he continued to be extremely well

satisfied with them ; of the Duhobortsi he had no favor

able opinion; but did not seem to know much about

the Malakans. I, however, labored to explain the wide

difference between the Malakans and the Duhobortsi,
and told him that, from what we had seen of them, we
believed them to be a simple-hearted people. The
Emperor said that he had located several of them in

South Russia, but he had not yet received any report

of them. I then showed him my plans for colonies at

home, with the drawings of cottages, and briefly ex

plained the outlines, leaving them with him for a few
days, that he might look at them more at his leisure.

I stated that a modification of them might be highly
useful in Russia, and that some of the seigneurs might,

by these arrangements, draw a greater revenue from
their peasants than they had at present, while, at the
same time, they might be preparing them for freedom ;

he fully agreed with me, and- seemed interested in the
subject. I thought it right to tell the Emperor of the

report which had been current in England, that he had
suppressed schools upon the British system through
out his dominions. He said this was not the case,

that if I came into Russia I should find them flourish

ing, and that he only discouraged those who would
teach from the French Lessons, reminding me that it

was we who first put him upon his guard against
them. He said that he had ordered no other book to

be taught throughout his dominions, than that very
1822.]  THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.  347

selection of the Holy Scriptures which we made at
Petersburg. The conversation on this subject was

extremely relieving to my mind.

   " I laid before the Emperor the present state of the

slave trade. He assured me that he was entirely with
us in this business, and quite disposed to do every
thing in his power to make the abolition complete. I
expressed my decided opinion, that nothing short of

making the slave trade piracy, or, at least, putting the
persons engaged in it out of the protection of the laws

of their country, would accomplish this end. I earn

estly entreated him to endeavor to carry this point in

the Congress, and if this should be found impossible,

that he would then set the example himself, and use
his influence with other potentates also, to do it sepa
rately, that the guilt and the odium may rest upon

those nations that refused to concur in the measure.
The Emperor most fully agreed to the desirableness

of such a procedure; and I said that we depended

very much upon him in the discussions which would

take place on the subject in Congress. I put into his

hands the letter from Thomas Clarkson, and that from
Wilberforce. He smiled when he took Clarkson's

letter, and said, 'That is Clarkson's writing.' We

then had some conversation relative to the desirable

ness of my going to Verona, to be at hand to urge the
business with the Duke of Wellington, and to furnish
facts to meet the arguments of the French. I said

that I by no means wished to go, unless the Emperor

thought it most advisable ; he replied that he would
turn the matter over in his own mind, and in the

course of two or three days he would tell me what he
348  CONVERSATION WITH  [1822.

thought; but that I must see him again, and, at all

events, wait. I happened to have one of ' Friends'

Address to the Inhabitants of Europe on the Slave

Trade,' in German, which he desired to keep, meaning,

I believe, to show the Emperor of Austria; I said, I

wished that leave could be obtained to reprint it here.
   " The conversation then turned upon the Greeks ;

I mentioned what we had seen of Bambas's school at

Scio, the progressive state of improvement among the

people, and their eagerness for the Scriptures and
tracts ; also the kindness with which we were enter
tained among them, but that some of these very

persons had since been murdered, and their families
sent into slavery in Turkey. The Emperor seemed to
feel deeply for them, and said he had proofs that this
rebellion against the Turks was organized at Paris, by
the revolutionists, who wished, above all things, for a

war, and to make the Greeks the means of embroiling
the powers of Europe -- that the Greeks were certainly

an oppressed people, but that their resistance was pre

mature, and the consequence was, that they were now

ten times worse off than before -- that if he were to

interfere, war might become general ; he considered it
a permission of Divine Providence that must be sub

mitted to. I mentioned the circumstance of his having

put down the Freemasons' societies in his dominions-
He said it had long been done in the place where we
now were, and that he had proofs of their concerting

measures secretly, which might prove dangerous. I

stated my hope, that this prohibition did not extend

to societies bona fide for benevolent purposes, observ
ing, that good men should be encouraged to unite
1822.]  THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.  349

their efforts in doing good. With this he perfectly
agreed, assuring me that it was far from his intention

to discourage these associations, and giving, as a
proof, his continued patronage and support of Bible

Societies. I ventured to entreat him to get the Em

peror of Austria to relax a little in some of his measures,
which savor too much of intolerance, and I related the

mischief which had been done among the Catholics
of Smyrna, who had been almost ruined by a fanatic
missionary priest. He received everything in t!ic
kindest manner. He inquired about dear Stephen,

and said that he often thought of him and me, and
prayed for us. The whole conversation was sustained
with the familiarity of old friends and acquaintances.

It was now drawing towards ten o'clock : as I expected
to see him again I did not wish to proceed farther

with these topics, and made a pause, in which my mind
was favored to feel something of the overshadowing
of the Lord's power. The Emperor took hold of my

hand and said, ' Have you anything for me ? I am

now ready to hear what you may have to communi

cate,' at the same time inclining his head towards me.

After a short silence I addressed him, saying that I

believed he had experienced many and deep trials, and

had been, and was, surrounded with difficulties; here

Ihe pressed my hand and seemed affected; but

encouraged him to look to the Lord for support and

direction, saying I did believe that if the Emperor

kept his eye singly to Him, with a desire to do His
will, that whatever tribulation might be suffered to
befall him it would be a means of establishing him

more firmly on Jesus Christ, the sure foundation ; I
350  SECOND INTERVIEW WITH  [1822.

dwelt also upon the safety of those who love the

Saviour, and endeavor to stay their minds upon God.

Much more than I can possibly recollect flowed freely
with, as I thought, the power of the Holy Spirit, and

I concluded with the text, ' Because he hath set his

love upon me, therefore will I deliver him.' We were

both contrited with the sweet feeling of Divine Good

ness, and on my remarking that this made me forget

for the moment the difference in our relative situations,

he put his arm affectionately round me. On parting,
he repeated his wish to see me again after three days.

It was now between ten and eleven o'clock, and I

returned to my nephew at the inn, with reverent thank

fulness to my Great and Good Master, who is an ever
present help to the least and feeblest of His servants,
who rely entirely upon Him."

   On the 28th Mr. Allen went to see Prince Esterhazy,

according to his invitation, but although the Prince

was at home, and waiting to converse with him, he was

denied access by a military officer to whom he gave
his card. From a note which Mr. Allen wrote, the

Prince first learned the mistake, and sent his English
servant to express his regret, and beg him to fix his
own time for the next day. He was immedialely ad
mitted on the 29th. The first subject of conversation
was the slave trade, and the conduct of the French
respecting it; in which he urged on the Prince the
necessity of making the capture of slaves piracy. " I
then," says Mr. Allen, " spoke of prisons, and showed
him the plan of a prison for three hundred. This sub

ject he took up warmly, and wishes to correspond with
me respecting it ; he is also desirous of having further
1822.]  THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.  351

conversation with me before I go. I now took the

liberty to remark that the Austrian Government, on
account of its rigor, was not, at present respected by
the thinking part of the community in England, by
that part who were friends to religion and government;
that its shutting up the schools at Milan had excited
feelings of strong disgust, and that many considered the
government as bigoted, and hostile to the progress of
light and knowledge. He allowed that perhaps they
were rather too strict, but that this arose from their

fear of the principles which brought about the French
revolution ; he, however, assured me that the Emperor

was a very worthy man, and a good domestic charac

ter. We conversed upon the state of the poor, and I

explained to him my plans for colonies at home, with
which he appeared pleased, and wished to know more

about them."
   Mr. Allen was favored with repeated interviews with

the Prince, who listened attentively to his plans, and

behaved in the most kind and agreeable manner.

Through a determined effort he obtained his books,
which had been seized by the police, stating that he

urgently wanted some of the tracts to show to the
Duke of Wellington, whom he had to meet in a few
hours by appointment ; in a short time they were sent.
The Duke was so engaged that morning that he de
ferred the interview till he could have more leisure to

converse with Mr. Allen. At half-past five the same

evening the Emperor sent for him.
   " He received me very kindly," observes Mr. Allen,

" and made me sit down with him at the table ; he had

read over my papers about colonies at home, and said
352  INTERVIEW WITH THE EMPEKOK.  [1822.

he liked the plan very much. With respect to Friends'

Address, he told me that he had made a communica

tion to the Austrian Government, through Count Nes-

selrode, and that leave had immediately been given

for reprinting it. He said he should be gratified if I

thought it right to go on to Verona, as it would give
him more opportunity of conversing with me, but he

advised me to consult the Duke of Wellington. I

told him that my inclination was to return home as

soon as possible, but that if it appeared to be my duty
and that I might be useful, I was ready to make the

sacrifice. We had much general conversation, in per

fect freedom, and this was in a high degree interesting.

I was sensible, during the whole of the interview, of a
precious covering of the Lord's Spirit, and it seemed
so to increase, that I gave up speaking of outward

matters, and the conversation turned entirely upon

Iwhat related to a better country. The Emperor asked

me if would not take some tea with him, to which I

readily assented. He said he had suffered from being
educated by those who had no sense of vital religion,

but that since the year 1812, when his mind was first
reached by the power of truth, he had endeavored to
live conformably to what he believed to be the divine
will ; he felt that he was a poor, weak creature, but he
constantly prayed for assistance. Finding so little com
pany that suited him, he spent much of his time alone,
in his room, for he felt that he suffered loss when he
was much with those who were in the spirit of the

Iworld ; ' but,' said he, ' when I am with you, and such

as you, who love the Saviour, can breathe.' He said
that he found it necessary to keep up the warfare con-
1822.] CONFEKS WITH THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON. 353

tinually ; he then opened his whole heart to me, told

me of his trials and his temptations, comparing them

to the thorn in the flesh, which the apostle describes.
'And if,' said he, ' the holy apostle was thus tried, need

we wonder if it is the experience of such poor crea

tures as we are. But let us remember what the answer

was to him when he prayed to be delivered --' My grace

is sufficient for thee.' Here it does not appear that he
was exempted from the trial, but was shown where he
was to find his support under it.' We now sat some time

in. silence, when I knelt down, and supplicated for the

blessing of preservation. The Emperor knelt on the
floor by me. On rising, we were again silent for a few
minutes, and then, under a sense of the renewed visita
tion of our Heavenly Father's love, took leave of each
other, not knowing but that we might possibly meet

Iagain at Verona. He grasped my hand, and it came

into my mind to tell him, that though was conscious

of being a very weak and feeble instrument, I believed

that our Divine Master had sent me to comfort and

encourage him; he replied, * I believe so.' He then

embraced and kissed me. One of the last things he

said, was, ' When you write to Grellet, tell him all

about me.'

  " Leaving him, I hastened to the Duke of Welling

ton, who received me very kindly, and said he had been
considering the subject, and thought it very desirable

that I should go to Verona. I told him that it would

be very disagreeable to me to be thought intrusive or

Imeddling, and that, if I could not be made useful,

had much rather not go. He replied, that if it were

very inconvenient to me, it was not his business to
354  SUCCESSFUL EFFORT FOR THE GREEKS. [1822

press but, that having so many things to attend to,
     it,

        I
he did not feel himself so thoroughly versed in the

subject as must be, and as might be able to assist
                    a
him on this point, he particularly wished should go.
                     it I               I

I  had not been without feeling that such might be

the issue, and told him that my heart was so bound
           II
                 I
to the cause, that though was no small sacrifice, in

every respect, would go. He seemed pleased with

the decision, and   have arranged to set off to

morrow."

   While Mr. Allen was at Vienna, numbers of Greeks

who had fled from the massacre of their countrymen

by the Turks at Scio passed through the city. Their

condition was very deplorable their college, under
the presidency of Bambas, and their library, were
                           ;

                                     a
destroyed, and all the professors killed or dispersed.

Mr. Allen, though a foreigner in strange land,

advanced money to assist their present necessities,

and applied to the Minister of Police to permit him to

raise a subscription on their behalf, and to grant them

leave to go by Trieste to Ancona, as the Austrian

Government would not allow them to remain in its

dominions --went to Prince Esterhazy and implored

him to use his influence on their behalf, which he
instantly did -- and then engaged to pay two professors

of their college for one quarter, till he could raise

funds in London, to maintain education at impover-

crished Scio. And this was the result: --"Prince

Esterhazy told me that, in consequence of my request,

the government will permit the Greeks to make a col
lection for tlvj refugees passing through and with
                                        ;

regard to my other request, that although they cannot
1822.]  VISITING PRISONS.  355

give them passports to a port in the Adriatic, they will

give them passports to Leghorn, whence they may go
to Ancona by water; this is a very great thing gained.

The Prince says he is glad I have been here, and that

hereafter any suggestion of mine will be listened to

from him."

   Count Sedluitzky, the Minister of Police, confirmed

this report, and my heart expanded with gratitude in
having been made the humble instrument of obtaining

some relief for this poor oppressed people. Having

now done all my work here, I went with a light

heart to the hotel, sent for the poor Greeks and gave

them the good news, for which they were very

thankful."
   Mr. Allen pursued his journey to Lintz, where,

according to the recommendation of Count Sedluitzky,
he visited the prison for the upper district of Austria

and Saltzburg, which contained about 200 prisoners,

all of whom were taught to read, being generally, if

not universally, ignorant when they entered. Every
thing was extremely neat and clean, and most of the
prisoners were employed. He describes the scenery
the greater part of the way to Munich as like the Alps
in miniature.

   At Munich, after interviews with the leading savans,

Mr. Allen applied to Mr. Brook Taylor, the British
Minister, to settle the business of his passport for him,
as the Austrian Ambassador had orders to sign no
more passports for Verona. In the evening Mr.
Allen received a handsome note from him, with a
special passport as courier to the Duke of Wellington,
and c6untersigned by the Austrian Minister. Mr.
356 MEETS THE CROWN PRINCE OF BAVARIA. [1822.

Taylor assured him that was the only way of getting

through the business, and it may be questioned

whether such a courier was ever before sent from

London to the Duke.

He started from Munich to go by the Tegern See,

in order to have an interview with the Crown Prince.
" He was gone out for a ride," observes Mr. Allen,
" but, on his return, a messenger came to inform me

that the Crown Prince would see me instantly. I

accordingly went with him to the palace, and was

shown up the great staircase, and through a grand

corridor, to the Prince's apartment. He speaks

English well, and received me very kindly, inquired

after Steven, and also what had brought me on my

way to Verona, on which I satisfied him. He talked
so much, and so quickly, that I had some difficulty in
edging in what I had to say. He commended the

zeal of Friends in endeavoring to get the African slave
trade abolished. ' But why,' said he, ' do you not

interfere in endeavoring to put an end to the white
slave trade ? ' He then spoke strongly of the atrocities

Iof the Turks in Scio, and inquired why the English
did not rise up against them.  told him the subject

had excited strong feelings in our country.

As the Crown Prince was about to leave next morn

ing, Mr. Allen's interview was brief; but the Prince

arenqduehseteddetaercmoirnreedspotnodeanpcpeealontohishimretu" rrnestpoecEtinngglanthde,

restrictions upon the pious people of Munich with

regard to their worship."

   The   1 3th of October they started  for Inspruck,  the
          of the Tyrol, where they      breakfasted.
capital                                                "I
1822.]  AMPHITHEATRE AT VERONA.  357

never saw anything," Mr. Allen observes, " like the
ride this afternoon. Mountains, rocks, torrents,
narrow defiles, interspersed with cottages, all in various
combinations --grand indeed. The Tyrolese are a fine
looking race of people. The costume of the peasants
is singular; the men wear green hats. The driver
told us there was not a Bible to be found in five or six

villages; and another said he had never seen a Bible.
Another does not know how to read or write ; for

though, when a boy, he went to school for two years,
he has forgotten all he learnt there, and he says that
this is the case with many adults.

    " On arriving at Brenzoll we got into difficulty about

horses, the imperial train being just before us. I was

obliged to submit to have the letter bag fastened on to
my carriage, and as horses are so scarce, it is on the

whole an advantage. As another carriage from the

same inn that we-came from was before us, and could

get no horses, the person who had been travelling in
it stood at our horses' heads, and refused to let us

/proceed ; the driver said I was a courier; he said,

ivas not. I quietly beckoned him to come to the side

of the carriage, when I showed him the official char

acter in which the British Minister at Munich had

placed me, and he immediately gave way."
   On the 1 7th of November Mr. Allen entered Verona,

and happily found accommodation at the hotel to

which he had been recommended. The next day he
went to see the ruins of the Amphitheatre, of which
only a small part of the exterior wall remains, b'ut the

stone seats are very perfect, and seem to have been

recently put in complete repair ; its form is elliptical,
858 INTERVIEW WITH DUKE OF WELLINGTON. [1822.

and is said to be capable of seating twenty-four thou
sand people. In this place Bonaparte harangued thirty-
thousand of his soldiers ; he stood upon one of the
upper rows and was heard distinctly.

   The walls and fortifications extend for miles. From
an eminence Mr. Allen, during a magnificent sunset,
obtained a splendid view of Verona, with the windings
of the Adige, an immense plain at his feet, and the
Appenines in the distant horizon; but his heart was
sad at reflecting upon the hopeless state of darkness
and ignorance into which that fine country was

plunged.

   " I waited, by appointment, on the Duke of Welling

ton, who made me sit down with him, and entered
into the subject of the slave trade. He began by re
marking, that we had not merely to consider what was

desirable, but what was practicable; that if the other

powers made it piracy, how were they to act against

France without going to war; that if we attempted

what was impracticable we should effect nothing, and
the mischief would go on increasing." The Duke
read a rough sketch of a paper which he had prepared
on the subject, and wished Mr. Allen to make some
memoranda of facts, which he was to search for and
send him. The same day he sent the Duke the requisite
information. General Macaulay happened to be at
Verona, and sympathizing with the objects of Mr.
Allen's visit, he also drew up a paper for the Duke, to
show the necessity of making the slave trade piracy.
On the 2Oth they went together, by appointment, to
the Duke, and Mr. Allen thus details the important

interview :--
1822.] INTERVIEW WITH DUKE OF WELLINGTON. 359

"General Macatilay gave him his paper, which he

read very attentively, and then said, that we were alto

gether mistaken in the very ground of our application,

to have it made piracy, for that the present Congress
was not a mere continuation of the Congress of 1815,

which consisted of eight powers, that   suppose, of
                                        I
Great Britain, Russia, Austria, Prussia, France, NetheriIs,

lands, Spain, and Portugal, but that the present only                   '

consisted of the first five, and could form no act to

bind the last three. That so far from the present
Congress interfering with the internal management of

individual states, am here,' said the Duke, as one
I

                      R
                           I'

                                    it
to prevent such an interference.' He had some further

conversation on the subject, and acknowledged that

now saw plainly that the present Congress could not

do more than make piracy for the powers that com

posed it. The Duke said, that he had spoken to the
Emperor of ussia on the subject --that he was with

us entirely, and ready to agree to anything, but that

he was himself for moderate measures.               stated, that
                                        it,
making the slave trade piracy, or at least designating
                                                 I
by that name, might, at the same time be accompa
it

                        ;

                         if
nied by such regulations as to prevent any inconve

niences that even France would not agree, the four

other powers might declare, that any of their respective

subjects who should engage in should thereby, ipso
facto, be put out of the protection of the laws of their

country, and considered hastes generis humani. The

Duke, however, still stuck to his text of impractica

bility, and thought that at least the foundation for

such step should be laid in other measures, by which
a

the French should be urged to fulfil their engagements.
360  INTERVIEW WITH COUNT MONTMORENCI. [1822.

Upon General Macaulay remarking, that the expecta
tions of the people of England were high, and he
feared they would be greatly disappointed, the Duke
said he was aware that he stood in no enviable situa

tion."

   " After dinner on the 23d, as I was going to Sir
James Wylie's, I thought," says Mr. Allen, " I heard

some person pretty near, call 'Allen,' but thinking it

unlikely that any one should know me I walked on ;
it was, however, repeated, and, turning round, I saw

the Duke of Wellington, dressed quite as a private
gentleman. He spoke to me very kindly, and made
me walk with him some distance towards the Corso.

I told him of my desire to see the French minister,

and he very kindly offered me an introduction, desiring
me to call for it at ten o'clock to morrow morning.

This cheered me a little, and I could but consider it

as providential."
   The next day he called on the Duke for the intro

duction which he had promised, and went with it to
Count Montmorenci. After a few remarks on hos
pitals, schools, and prisons, "we came to the main
matter, the slave trade, and the part that France takes
in this horrible business. He had little to say in justi

fication, but candidly acknowledged that something

further was wanted. I then went more fully into the

subject; the Count looked very grave, and seemed to

feel what was said. I presented him with Benezet's

observations, explanatory of our principles, and some
other tracts. His reception of me was altogether very
affable and cordial, and, on taking leave, his expressions
of regard appeared to be not merely complimentary.
1822.] THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON'S INVITATION. 3tH

I was thankful in having this opportunity to express

what had rested on my mind."

   On the 26th, the Duke of Wellington gave him the
joyful intelligence that " he had received instructions

to urge the matter of piracy, and he should certainly

do so."

During Mr. Allen's stay at Verona, the Duke of

Wellington invited him to dinner, in order to meet

some of the influential characters then assembled for

the Congress. The kindness of the proposal was grate

fully acknowledged, but Mr. Allen begged to decline

the invitation, observing, that he was only an humble

individual, and did not wish to come forward, except

where he had a duty to perform; and though he felt

particularly obliged for the kind permission granted

him, to wait upon the Duke whenever it appeared

desirable, yet, on this occasion, he believed he should

be more in his place to remain rather in the shade.

The apology was well received, and the Duke con

fessed that he might be right.

!n the evening of the 26th, by command, he waited

on the Emperor. The interview is thus described:
   "The Emperor received me in the most cordial

manner, and made me sit down by him, at a long

table, placed in the middle of the room. He began
by asking me about my journey, etc. I told him of

my having seen the Crown Prince of Bavaria, and my

motives for which he approved, remarking more
         it,
                             a

                                               I
than once, that he had good heart.                expressed my

regret at that general disposition which appeared, at

present, among the continental powers, to check in

quiry, and told the Emperor of the instance given by
362  INTERVIEW WITH THE EMPEROR.                 [1822.

General Macaulay, of a poor man confined in a dun

geon at Naples, for circulating the Bible. He seemed

struck with this, and I believe will inquire into it. I

adverted also to the efforts to put down the schools in

France, but the Emperor said that the conductors of

them had, in many places, been introducing dangerous

lessons. We talked freely and pleasantly on several

other subjects, and, among the rest, on my plans for

colonies at home. I showed him how easily they might

be established in the Crimea, and that the saleable

products might be in oil, silk, etc.; he considered the

subject as of great importance, and seemed quite will

ing to adopt it as soon as we could find suitable agents

to carry it into effect. Seeing the way open, I ven

tured to relieve my mind with regard to two subjects,

which had oppressed me very much when travelling

through Russia: the first was, the general, and almost

universal, use of brandy among the poor; and the

second, the corruption throughout all the departments

of government, arising from the insufficiency of the

amount of salaries. The first, he said, was a subject

very near his heart ; that he was doing all in his power

to diminish the evil, and had already succeeded to a

very considerable extent, by putting down a great num
ber of the shops where brandy was sold. With regard

to the other, he looked very grave, considering
     it                                          as
              it

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                              it,
                                                                                   is
indeed is, a point of great difficulty. He says that

the sums which would be required to make the salaries

what they ought to be, would be so enormous, that he

does not know how they could be raised he, however,

hoped to do by degrees, and for this purpose, he
making retrenchments in different departments. Our
1822.]  PARTING INTERVIEW.  363

conversation upon religious matters was very satisfac
tory. He again adverted to some of the temptations

he had had to struggle with, and how he had been so

far favored to resist, but he felt himself so weak that

he could not look far before him ; he could only pray
and struggle to get through the present day ; ' and in

this way,' said he, ' I have so far got on.' He hinted

at trials and temptations in this place, ' but,' said he,

' since my interview withyou, I have felt strengthened ;

God has heard your prayers ; continue to pray for me.'

He asked me how long I thought I should stay, say

ing that if I remained a few days he should like to

have a parting opportunity. My mind was covered
with a precious degree of divine sweetness from the
source of never-failing help, and we parted in much

affection."

   General Macaulay and Mr. Allen had, on the 28th,
another long conference with the Duke of Welling
ton, in the course of which the Duke read to them the

despatches which he was about to send off to the

Cabinet in London, and joined heartily with them in
wishing for a final and immediate abolition. Two
days afterwards Mr. ATlen called on the Duke to take
leave, and mentioned the case of the persecuted Wal-
denses, in the valley of Piedmont, near Turin. The

Duke said Canning had written to him on the subject,
and it would come before Congress. He gave him a
letter to the British Minister at Turin, the Hon. W.

Hill, and requested if he obtained any information

which he thought worth while to communicate, he
would send it to him. "Thus," says Mr. Allen, "the

way opened marvellously, and I expressed my joy that
364 TAKES LEAVE OF DUKE OF WELLINGTON. [1822.

the matter was in his hands. I then stated the strong

impression which had been upon my mind, that it was

the object and end of some of the powers in Congress,
(having Austria, the King of Sardinia, and the King

of the two Sicilies in view), to put down all inquiry as
dangerous --that under the pretext of secret societies,

and the spread of revolutionary principles, they sought

to check the circulation of the Scriptures, to suppress

the education of the poor, and were doing all in their

power, by shackling the press and stopping out the

light, to bring the dark ages once more over Europe.

The Duke reprobated the narrow-minded policy to
which I had adverted, saying, that in fact they injured

themselves by      was comforted by hearing one
'

       it
                        it.

                  I

                                               it,

                                 I'
sentiment which he expressed. We are here,' said

he, to prevent the great Powers from oppressing the
lesser --to prevent interference!
                                                  expressed the satis

faction gave me to hear remarking to him, that

as they had not interfered to save the poor Greeks from

the Turks, upon the same principle they ought not to

interfere with Spain in this he cordially united. In
I
                     ;

                  I

                                                     a
                                                                   '
taking leave, again thanked him, and said, May the

Lord bless thy endeavors to preserve the peace of

Europe.' We then parted, trust, with mutual; feel

ings of respect."

The Crown Prince of Sweden, who was at Verona,

also sent for Mr. Allen, and gave him long interview.

Beside the usual topics of interest, he conversed with

the Prince on Home Colonies, as applicable to Nor

way, and at his request, promised to send him his plan,

when perfected, through the Swedish Ambassador.

The next day, while waiting in the police-office for
1.S22.] FINAL INTERVIEW WITH THE EMPEROR.  365

his passport, to which the officers had objected, be
cause it was not vised by the English minister, the Duke

and Prince Metternich came in --the Duke signed it

himself, and set him free.

   The Emperor of Russia had appointed seven o'clock
on the evening of the 3ist for Mr. Allen to visit him
and take leave -- a most interesting season to both par
ties it must have been. The relation of it makes us

involuntarily love both the Friend and the King, who
appear more like two Christian brothers of the same

rank than individuals between whom there was so great
a distance : --

   " The dear Emperor received me most cordially, and

again asked me to take tea with him ; his little hand

bell has a watch attached to it ; when tea was brought

in, he remembered that I did not take sugar. We now
had some most interesting conversation. I mentioned
the subject of the persecution of the Waldenses. I

adverted again to the subject of liberty of conscience
in matters of religion, which we had discoursed upon
in our last interview, when I mentioned the case of the

pious people at Munich, who were forbidden to meet
in greater numbers than five beside the family. He

turned to a French Testament on the table, and pointed
to that text in I Corinthians, chap, xiv., v. 33 -- ' For
God is -not the author of confusion, but of peace,' etc.
He still seemed to think, that if people attacked the
religion of a country, the magistrates would naturally

take the matter up. I felt it was very tender ground,

but that it was my place to go into it rather at length.

I remarked to the Emperor, that when we opened the

sacred volume, and saw what the Christian religion
30J  SUBJECTS OF CONVERSATION.  [1822.

was, as described there in its primitive purity, we must

be sensible how much it had become depraved and

corrupted in subsequent ages ; and if it were to be held
unlawful to deviate from the religion of the state, it
would be impossible for the church to rise out of its

degraded situation, and consequently all reform would
be prevented ; but that the Great Head of his church

might raise up very humble instruments to bear testi

mony to the truth in its primitive purity, and therefore

great tenderness should always be shown towards those

who appeared to be actuated by principle, in dissenting
from any religion established by law. The Emperor

then put the query to me, how we should act in our

Society, if any of our members attacked our principles,

Ior deviated from them ? told him this was coming

to the point, and that such things had occurred amongst

us ; that, in the first place, we labored, in the spirit of

love, to reclaim such, and exercised much forbearance ;

but that, if they continued to show that they were

really not in principle with us, we disowned them as
members of our religious Society. We got through

this point very agreeably, and the Emperor seemed

satisfied. I expressed a hope that he would excuse me
if I endeavored to relieve my mind of what I had for

some time past felt as a burden, and that he would per
mit me to speak to him freely. He said. ' Certainly ;

I not only respect you, but I love you from the bottom

of my heart. I then told him how anxious I felt thai

he might be preserved from committing himself with

others, whose views and principles were not so pure as

Ihis own ; that wished him to keep himself as indc

pendent as possible, for that others would be glad to
1822.]  PRAYS WITH THE EMPEROR.  367

make use of his name and character to forward their

views. He took the hint exceedingly well, but said

that he always weighed things in his own mind, and

acted according to the best of his judgment. I en

couraged him to seek after and wait for that which
could alone rightly direct him, stating, that the Lord

would never fail those whose trust and dependence were
wholly upon him. The above is only a small part of

what passed between us. At length conversation

ceased ; the Emperor proposed our praying together.

I said, if he pleased, we would sit in silence, when he

replied that was what he wished. We then had a pre

cious tender time of silent waiting upon the Lord. At
length I felt it right to kneel down and offer up thanks

giving, and to supplicate for continued preservation.
The Emperor knelt by me. The power of the Holy
Spirit accompanied the words. We remained a minute

or two afterwards on our knees, and then resumed our

seats. I saw there was something farther on his mind,
and after we had been a little time silent, he said, ' Now
I want you to tell me a litttle how you do in silent

worship, for I find that, without some words, or some

Ithing to fix my mind upon, I am apt to wander.

find it difficult to fix my thoughts, -- how is it with

you ?' I told him that was the very thing which I

often had to struggle with, and that sometimes when

I have been enabled to keep up the watch, and endea

vored to bring back my thoughts when they had wan

dered, and that repeatedly, for an hour together, with
out feeling much, if any, divine consolation at the time,

I have afterwards been comforted and given to believe,

that this effort and mental struggle has been accept-
368  CLOSING ENCOURAGEMENTS.  [1822.

able in the divine sight ; that in our silent approaches,
we should, in great simplicity, pour out our souls to
our Father, who sees in secret, and patiently wait for
what he may be pleased to administer ; and we should

not be discouraged if the times of refreshing did not

always come when we desired them most. We had
much more conversation of this kind, with which the

IEmperor expressed himself much gratified, saying,

' This is just what wanted' We spoke also of the
necessity of mental prayer, and how it might be per
formed even when we were in the discharge of our

outward duties. He said that it was his constant prac
tice, and he did not know what he should do without
it. He pointed to a great pile of papers, which, not

withstanding the interruptions he has here, must be
got through. It was now between nine and ten o'clock,

but we seemed loth to part. When I rose, he embraced

and kissed me three times, saying, --' Remember me

to your family : I should like to know them. Ah!'

said he, ' when and where shall we meet again !'
   " Thus ended this remarkable interview. I believe

we shall both, as long as we live, recur with comfort
to the feelings with which we were favored in it. On

leaving the palace, I went over to Sir J. Wylie, who

regretted my going very much, and accompanied me

to the inn, where he was a good deal affected on taking

leave."

   In the preceding narrative of the interviews Mr.
Allen had with exalted personages, it is impossible
not to admire his consummate skill in introducing

matters kings and great men are seldom accustomed

to hear, and the kind, friendly, and even affectionate,
1822.]  GOD'S TESTIMONIES BEFORE KINGS.  369

attentions they paid him, when the simplicity of his
character and the disinterestedness of his motives
became known. And it may be a question, whether

when Christians are by Providence thrown among the

upper ranks of society, if the subjects in which they

profess to have the highest interest are not adverted

to, such persons do not feel disappointed, and lament

privately that so few act up to their profession. All

are not capable of presenting truth in the same
manner as William Allen ; but if every one would
ask God for assistance as he did, many of his difficul
ties would be overcome. For it is not eloquence that

affects the heart, but sound knowledge, combined with
an affectionate interest in our friend's welfare, however

elevated his position, compel him to say, as the good
and generous lady said of the prophet -- " Behold, now,
this is a holy man of God thatpasseth by us contin
ually!"
                     CHAPTER XV.

RETURN FROM VERONA. DEATH OF HIS DAUGHTER,

                         AND THIRD MARRIAGE.

   AFTER an early interview with General Macaulay,
Mr. Allen started from Verona on the ist of Novem
ber, 1822. The scenery was very enchanting, espe
cially on the borders of the Lago de Garda. From
the elevated spot occupied by the Waldenses, they
gained an extensive prospect. Vineyards, meadows,
magnificent Alps, reflecting the sunbeams from their
snowy tops, and the conical point of Mount Viso
towering above the rest, formed a scene of indescriba
ble beauty. But the moral scenery deeply affected
the spirit of Mr. Allen.

   " We lodged at Brescia, a very large place, contain
ing forty thousand inhabitants. It really makes one's
heart ache to see the state of these countries ; the
people are allowed to indulge in all sorts of dissipa
tion ; there are plays, spectacles, &c., on the first day
of the week, and indeed the opera is better served on
that evening than on any other ; absolution is readily
procurable for sins, and penance may be compounded
for by money. Thus the priests nurse the people in
their sins, and at the same time labor to keep them in
ignorance, and to shut out all light and knowledge

from them."

                                                    (370)
1822.]           DESCRIBES THE WALDENSES.  371

   At Turin he presented his note of introduction from
the Duke of Wellington to the Hon. W. Hill, who

gave him a very pleasing reception, and much infor

mation respecting the state of the Waldenses, recom

mending him to go to the valleys and inspect their

condition. He and his nephew started on the 6th for

La Tour, and visited the Pasteur Bert, who cheerfully

accompanied      him to some of   t"heuppoenasaantws'idhoowu,sewsh. ose
                 says Mr. Allen,
   " I called,"

occupation was that of weaving coarse linen cloth ;

the loom occupied almost half of her habitation, and

in one corner was something which had the appear

ance of a bed ; the apartment was very gloomy, the
principal light coming in at the door, and I found, that

by all her exertions, she could only earn a sum equal

to about twopence or threepence per day. We went

up the hills, to visit one or two of the elders of the

congregation ; they live in a very homely style, and
when we entered, were at supper upon boiled ches-

nuts ; they received us very hospitably, and we sat
down with them and partook of their humble fare,

with which they seemed quite contented. They

burn an oil, which they obtain by pressing walnuts,

and their lamps very much resemble, in shape, those

used by the Romans. Though the Elder is one of

the principal men among them, the next to the

Pastor, the only access to his upper rooms was by

means of a ladder. The stable, particularly in winter,

is the general rendezvous of the family, who meet

there in the evenings, together with the domestic

animals. I saw a complete specimen of this : two

or three cows were lying down, a woman was spin-
372  THEIR HABITS AND SUFFERINGS.  [1822.

ning, and the rest of the family sitting upon a litter,
composed of the leaves of trees and of Indian corn.
Here, in the long winter evenings, they read the
Scriptures, and books of piety, and also, especially
on first day, sing psalms. In this stable they
perform all the work that can be done in such a

situation, but I think they might be taught a better

method. In the countenances of many of these
poor people, there is an expression of innocence, of
simplicity and of sweetness, which forms a most
striking contrast to that of their Roman Catholic
neighbors, in whom the effects of ignorance are

shown in 'the very features."
   In an interesting letter to the Emperor of Russia,

written at Turin, Mr. Allen further delineates their

habits and sufferings.

     The great bulk of them are very poor ; many are
proprietors of small pieces of ground which they cul
tivate in corn and potatoes, upon which latter many
of them almost wholly live.

   " Their Eglise is a plain building, capable of holding
several hundred persons ; but situated at a considerable
distance from La Tour, because the Roman Catholics

would not suffer them to have one there, though three-
fourths of the inhabitants are Protestants. The men

are arranged on one side and the women on the other.

There is a reading-desk, with a large folio Bible of
Ostervald, and above this is the pulpit. They used to
hold meetings in the town, for prayer and religious
worship, in the middle of the week, but, for about a
year past, this has been forbidden.

    " While they were under the French government,
1822.]  LETTER TO EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.  373

they had equal privileges with the Roman Catholics,

but as soon as the present King of Sardinia resumed

his power, he began, with as much expedition as the
nature of the case would admit, to bring things back

to the dismal state in which they were before. A few

days after his accession, he revived the old persecuting

edicts, and they now fear, doubtless with great reason,

that the property which they had been permitted to
purchase during the cessation of persecution, is in

jeopardy.

  " In law proceedings, I am informed that it is usual

for the judge to ask whether the pleader or client is a

Protestant or Catholic, and the matter is managed
accordingly. Remedy, in cases of great oppression,
is here almost hopeless, because the government will

receive nothing that docs not come through the regu

lar channel, which is through the constable and judge

of the place, and these are almost always their bitter

enemies. Since the year 1815, they have not been

efficiently protected, but have merely been suffered to

exist.

   " The school was taught upon the British system

of mutual instruction until last year, when there was a

royal edict to put down all schools on this plan, and

in conformity thereto they were obliged to return to

the common method. All the children of the Protest

ants in this part, who are of a suitable age, are taught

to read and write ; but among their Catholic neighbors,

not more than one in ten, on an average, can read.
Even the Catholic schoolmaster at La Tour can

scarcely read, and the consequence of this disgraceful

state of ignorance  is,  that they are strangers to all
374       ITS EFFECT ON HIS MAJESTY.         [1822.

kind and liberal feeling, and nourish a violent hatred
of the Protestants, whom they are taught by their

priests to consider, and to call, 'Enfans du Diable,' and

to regard as sure of everlasting perdition. A person

known to be a Protestant is refused admittance into a

hospital when sick, unless he will consent to change

his religion. Having, on ground they purchased when

the country was under the dominion of France, erected

a place of worship in the parish of St. Jean, within
sight of a Catholic chapel, it was, by order of the

present government, shut up ; but strong applications

having been made, leave was granted to open it again,

upon condition that the Protestants, at their own

expense, should build before it and keep in repair, a

high fence or screen, in order that the Catholics might

not be disgusted with the sight of their Protestant

brethren going in and out of their place of worship.
I saw this monument of intolerance in my way back

to  this  place.

    " At   La Tour  is a Catholic  hospice,  into which

children of Protestants have been enticed and brought

up as Catholics ; when once within these walls their

parents cannot get at them. Protestants are bribed

with money to become Catholics; I saw one myself,

who had become tax-gatherer of the district."
   The British Minister at Turin forwarded this letter

to the Emperor, accompanied by a note to the Duke

of Wellington by a special courier. The Emperor was

absent when the courier arrived, but on returning late

at night to the palace, he opened and read the letter,

and at two o'clock in the morning Baron Wylie found

him sitting over it in tears.
1822.]  HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND.  375

    What Englishman can read such a statement with
 out being also affected by the true nature of popery.
 As it encourages superstition and ignorance, so it
 persecutes with rancorous hatred all who will not
 accept its dogmas. The government of England,
 with all its faults, looks glorious indeed, in contrast
 with the laws which popery carries out among the

 Vaudois.
    On his return to England, Mr. Allen labored inces

 santly with the government to use its influence on
 behalf of this interesting people ; nor were his efforts
 in vain : " Canning agreed to write to Turin to have
 the decree published for the relief of the Waldenses."
 On another occasion he sent for Mr. Allen to inform

 him "leave was obtained from the Sardinian Govern

 ment for the Waldenses to build themselves a hospital."
 Mr. Planta told Mr. Allen, when he called at the

 Foreign Office, that Canning had desired him to show
 him despatches from the Sardinian minister on the
 subject of the Waldenses. The interference of our

 government in 1822 stimulated them to make further

 concessions.

     Mr. Allen now proceeded by the pass of Mount
 Cenis to Geneva, where his old friends, Professor

· Pictet and the Vernets, heartily welcomed one who
 had suffered so much with Christian resignation but a
 few years before in their society. Here he met the
 Baron do Stael, who invited him to dine at Copet,
 where the Duke and Duchess de Broglie were on a
 visit to the Baron. The conversation was almost
 entirely on religious subjects. The Duke was in
 terested but did not say much ; the Duchess, a very
376  VISITS THE KING Of WURTEMBUKG.  [1822.

sensible, agreeable person, was very desirous of infor
mation on the principles of Friends, which Mr. Allen
endeavored to gratify. He also visited Cresar Malan,
whom he describes as a strong Calvinist, but states
that "the upper ranks of Geneva are generally built
up in a strict morality, and the pride of science and
talent; the ruling clergy also are strong advocates of

reason, and have reasoned themselves into Socinian-
ism." After many pleasant services in ministry, and
interviews with the pious friends with whom he had

previously associated, he left for Lausanne, Vevay,
Friburg, Zurich, and St. Gallen.

   At St. Gallen, Mr. Allen was much interested in the
two families of Schlatter. Daniel Schlatter, an excel

lent young man, was so zealous for the conversion of

the heathen to Christianity, that he went to live among
the Nogayc Tartars, near Orloff, in the South of
Russia. He suffered many privations, and submitted
to live in a Tartar family as a servant, in order to

learn their language and be useful to them.

   At Stuttgard, learning that the mother of the Queen

wished to see him, but was then from home, Mr.

Allen went to the palace and readily obtained an
interview with the King of Wurtcmburg, who received
him with great affability, and immediately entered
into conversation. " Just as we were beginning to
converse," observes Mr. Allen, " he stopped short,
and said he must go for the Queen, as she also wished

to see me ; she accordingly came, and they entered
with interest into the subjects brought forward.
Prisons and their improvement and regulation was
the first topic of discussion, then the occurrences of
1822.]  THEIR CONVERSATION.  377

my former journey, and my visit to the Waldenses,

etc. ; this naturally opened the way for conversation

upon toleration in matters of religion. I remarked,
in substance, that the business of civil governors was
the protection of the people in their rights and privi

leges, and to see that no one trespassed upon another,
but that they had nothing to do in matters of religion,
provided that the good order of the community was

not disturbed. Both the King and the Queen most
fully assented to this doctrine, and approved of tolera

tion in its fullest extent. They also agreed with me

that, unless anything appeared injurious to morals
and the good order of society, it was better to leave
people alone, for if they had an idea of being perse

cuted, it would only strengthen them in any false
notions. We spoke of the persecution at Lausanne,
of which they both highly disapproved. We con

versed also about schools, but so great is the care
taken in this kingdom of the education of the poor,

that they are generally taught to read; however, the

King likes the plan of the British system. I showed

them the English Scripture Lessons, and explained

what had been doing in this way in the different lan
guages of Europe, with which they seemed much

pleased. I was careful not to make things tedious,

and offered several times to rise, but the King would
not let me go. I had, under a gracious influence, to
make some remarks on the subject of religion, which
appeared to be felt by both the King and Queen, and
we parted, I believe, under mutual feelings of Christian
regard and affection. They cordially took me by the
hand, and the King said that if there was anything in
378  INTERVIEW WITH OBERLIN.  [1822.

which he could gratify me at Stuttgard, he should be
glad to do it. This audience occupied from an hour
and a half to two hours."

   Among the calls Mr. Allen made here, was one on
the father of the present Dr. Steinkopff, who was
eighty-six years of age, and could see to paint without

spectacles.

    Carlsruhe, to which he next went, he describes as

one of the prettiest towns he had ever seen. At

Strasburg he met with many interesting and pious per
sons, especially Professor Krofft of the Protestant

Seminary, where he powerfully addressed the students
on the preciousness of the Scriptures and the efficacy
of prayer. Here he parted with Narolsky, the. con

verted Jew he had taken with him as a servant -- he

was much affected at bidding farewell to his kind em

ployer.
   On his way to Paris he went some distance out of

his road to call on Pastor Oberlin at Walbach, and thus
describes the interview: -- " We see the little spire of

the village, embosomed in hills covered with pines, for

some time before we arrive at it. Oberlin lives in a

large house near the place of worship. He was at
home and received us very kindly. His study is a
curious place, containing a great medley, which it
would be difficult to describe. He is now eighty-two
years of age, is very mild and loving in his manners,
with the simplicity of a child ; he is regarded as the
father of the place, his active mind having constantly
been engaged in planning and executing works of pub
lic utility, as roads, bridges, etc., the money for which

he raised by subscription ; he has lived in this place
1823.]  ASSISTING THE GREEKS.                       379

fifty-two years. The old man would have us dine with

him, and related to us the circumstances of a remark

able illness which he had during the time of the French
Revolution, and how he was raised up out of with
                                     if it
the extraordinary feelings he experienced at the time,
                                               it,
wherein he distinctly saw the difference between the
                                                           a
natural and spiritual man."
   In few days Mr. Allen arrived at Paris. Baron de
a
                     a
Sta:l gave him warm reception, and Count Lasteyrie

informed him that the schools in France were put
under the care of the priests, and that has been

difficulty to obtain leave to establish a Protestant

school in place which happened to have no Catholic
        a

                                it
school. To Mr. Allen                appeared as the ruling

party were endeavoring to bring things back to the

state they were in at the massacre of Bartholomew.

After several pleasant interviews with men in power,

and attempting to encourage the principles of piety,

liberty, and education,   Mr. Allen  left Paris  and reached
home on the agth of                  " deeply    humbled in
                         December,

thankfulness that his Divine Master had so preserved

those who were dearest to him, and brought him back

in the possession of sweet peace."               a  com
   He commenced the year 1823, by attending

mittee already formed to assist the distressed and ban

ished Greeks, of which he was made treasurer. Two

hundred pounds had previously been forwarded to

Trieste and Ancona, and he was directed to write and

empower persons at Corfu, and in the Ionian Islands,

to draw for one hundred pounds, and to state that

further assistance should be sent to the former men

tioned places. Correspondents at Constantinople and
380  CALAMITIES OF THE GREEKS.  [1823.

Trieste thus describe their sufferings and calamities : --

   "A gentleman from Odessa, has lately been at Scio,

where he called for a few hours on passing. He states
the destruction of that place as most complete, and
the scene of horror and desolation even to this day
as quite indescribable. He saw still in the streets the
bodies of many of the unfortunate Greeks ; some of

them apparently just as they had died, with their
clothes still on. The dogs had mangled the bodies in

a dreadful manner.

   " The wretched inhabitants were burnt out of their

houses, and only escaped death in that way, to receive

it from the hands of their barbarous conquerors. The

churches, the schools, the libraries, the hospitals, the
splendid mansions, which adorned this island, are now
reduced to heaps of rubbish and cinders. Not even
the orange and citron trees have escaped the fury of
the barbarians. But what is the destruction of the

works of man, in comparison of so many thousands of

Christians massacred, burnt or condemned to the most
abject slavery? Every man of sensibility shudders at

the thought. Your pious and philanthropic Society
has, by its generous aid, relieved all those of my un

fortunate countrymen, who, after escaping a most cruel

death, had emigrated to Trieste, Venice, Ancona, and
Malta ; where they drag on a life of sorrow and bitter

ness. There is not one who has not to lament the

loss of relations --sons, daughters, mothers -- who have

been taken captive and carried into the towns of Asia,

and offered to the highest bidders like beasts of bur
den. In the city of Smyrna, the streets aie filled with

these poor captives, who are offered by their masters
1823.] COMMITTEE FORMED FOR THEIR RELIEF.  381

at even forty or fifty piastres each. Some European

merchants, resident in the city, moved with pity and
humanity, have ransomed many of the slaves ; but

the number of those who remain in servitude is so

great, that a considerable sum would be required to

redeem them. All those of my countrymen who have

suffered the least in this dreadful catastrophe are mak

ing generous efforts to rescue their brethren from
slavery; but their means will scarcely be sufficient to

redeem their nearest relations."
   Committees were speedily formed of the most rer

spectable Greeks at Trieste, Ancona, Leghorn, Odessa,
Marseilles, Malta, Amsterdam, and Vienna. Corres

pondents were also appointed at Constantinople,
Smyrna, the Ionian Islands, Stuttgart, and Paris ; and
the intercourse which the distribution of the funds

opened between the London Committee and many of
the Greek nation, tended to raise a deep interest on
their behalf. Upwards of eight thousand pounds were
collected for the relief of the sufferers, and several
sums of money from persons not members of the So

ciety of Friends. It was necessary that the subscrip

tion should not be public, lest a knov/ledge of it by the
Turks should enhance their demands.

    The correspondence connected with this painful

business, and the attendance required at the commit
tee, occupied much of Mr. Allen's time. While thus
aiding the relief of their present exigencies, he was
indefatigable in endeavoring to promote the cause of

education, and to raise the standard of religion and
 morals amor.g them. He obtained a grant of Bibles

 and Testaments in Greek, from the Bible Society, and
·332 SLAVERY ABOLITION SOCIETY FOUNDED. [1823.

forwarded them to refresh their spirits, and turn their
eyes to the true source of comfort, while he was fre
quently in attendance on the Ministers at the Foreign
Office, and on persons of influence, to induce them to
negotiate with the Turkish Government for their

release.

   The foundation of the London Society for the
Gradual Abolition of Slavery in our Colonies, was
laid at Z. Macaulay's, in Cadogan-place, on the I3th
of January, 1823, at a dinner party, to which Mr.
Allen was invited. And on the 28th, a private meet
ing was held at the King's Head, Poultry, where reso
lutions were adopted, and Samuel Hoare was appointed
treasurer. In the formation of sub-committees for
various parts of the kingdom, and the preparation of
petitions to the Legislature, Mr. Allen took a very
active part. On one of these petitions drawn up by
him, and sent from the Society of Friends, Mr. Wil-
berforce, who was entrusted with its presentation,
remarks : --

  " I can truly say that I shall account it an honor

to be the bearer of such sentiments to the table of
the House of Commons; it is all excellent, more es
pecially that part of it which states your unshaken

belief that Christianity, if embraced and acted upon,

would insure the present and eternal happiness of the

human race."

   Every individual whose influence was likely to be

beneficial to this great cause was enlisted, if possible,

by Mr. Allen. Major Colebrook wrote to inform him
that Sir Lowry Cole, who was going out as Governor
to the Mauritius, wished to converse with him on the
1823.]  INTERVIEW WITH CANNING.                                         383

subject of schools, on which Mr. A. remarks-- " I

must take the hint, as he may be eminently useful to

us in the slavery cause."

About the same time he visited the Duke of Wel

lington, and endeavored to interest him in the disposal

of some mahogany from the Gambia,                        which   an African
merchant had brought to England :                               pointed out
                                                         --" I

Albreda to him on the map, and dwelt upon the im

portance ot rooting the French out of as
                                                         it
                                                                    it,
                                                                            it
                                                                                   is

                                                                                          a
nidus for the slave trade, in the middle of our own

river, the Gambia. He thinks there will be difficulty

in the case, as they have occupied since 1783. He

recommends our working with Earl Bathurst and

Huskisson, and seems quite disposed to second our

objects. We accordingly called on Huskisson, who

seems to be shrewd, clever man.                          was glad to
        a                                                I
              a
                                                                     j
                                                      :
become acquainted with him."

During subsequent interview with Mr. Canning,

the Duke came in, and Mr. Allen happened to say
something about slavery -- " Canning immediately

looked very grave, and seemed to feel deeply he said

that Buxton's book would be answered by insurrec

tion.   replied, hoped not, and that we should be
       II
                   if I

                                it
extremely sorry any such thing took place. Both

he and the Duke requested me to use my influence

with Buxton, to induce him not to push the matter to

extremity, but to let become a measure of govern

ment.   wrote a letter to Buxton, begging him to

call upon the Duke of Wellington."

  It was not till the following year that the first public

meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society was held, which
Mr. Allen thus briefly describes: --
384 ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY'S FIRST MEETING. [1823.

   " The report was well read by Wilberforce's son.
Elliot moved the first resolution, which was seconded

by James Stephen. Baptist Noel, a fine young man,
moved the second resolution, and this was seconded

by Thomas B. Macaulay, son of Zachary Macaulay,
who made one of the most splendid and eloquent
speeches that I ever heard. What cause of thankful

ness to see such young men raised up to supply the-

places of those who are going off the stage."
   The inspiration of that meeting gave new zest to

the labors of the devoted committee, nor did they
cease to agitate till the Society had accomplished it ;
object, and every slave in our Colonies became a free

man.

   Favored as Mr. Allen was by the Emperor of

Russia with peculiar friendship, he used it not to ag
grandize wealth, or seek appointments for himself or

others, but to advance the kingdom of our divine
Saviour, and with a spirit as humble as it was courage

ous, to present truths to his Majesty, which, though

often unacceptable to imperial minds, it is necessary

they should sometimes have faithfully presented for
their consideration. 'This spirit is beautifully illus
trated in a letter which he wrote to the Emperor in

April, 1823, in which, after giving him some account
of his journey, and the Divine help graciously vouch

safed to him in its prosecution, he thus proceeds:

   " In my first interview with thee at Vienna, on the

28th of Ninth Month (September) last, I expressed a

deep conviction that thou wast under very peculiar
difficulties and trials ; and, although unacquainted with

the precise nature of them, I sympathized much with
1823.]  INTERESTING LETTER.                                       385

thee. The momentous occurrences which have since

taken place, and which are daily taking place, have

led me to recur to those feelings. Thou know'st that
my love for thee is pure and disinterested -- thou

know'st that I have disclaimed all party or political
feelings ; and I humbly trust that thou hast/?// that I

rest all my hopes, for time and in eternity, upon the

love of God in Christ Jesus my Lord. At the present

moment, then, so awfully interesting to a friend whom

I most dearly and tenderly love, and to the cause of

mankind, permit me to relieve my mind from a heavy

burden, which has been increased by witnessing the

feelings with which the various classes of society in
this country are agitated with regard to thee. Thy

kindness, I trust, will excuse me, for want of that
    It

        is

                   I
                            It

                                                          if,

                                                               I
information of which thou art in possession, am

needlessly alarmed.  seems, however, due to the

affection which have so long cherished for thee, to

produce a candid statement of the reports currently

circulated and universally believed.
   " said that the Emperor of Russia, who had so

publicly patronized the societies, in America and
England, for the promotion of universal peace, has
now become the secret and open abettor of war that
                                           it ;
while he would not interfere to check the horrors

perpetrated in Greece, on the ground that                         was

wrong to intermeddle between a people and their

government, and also lest might kindle new war,ita
   now, in the instance of Spain, interfering between a
is

people and their government, and encouraging France
in measures, the extent and termination of which
                                                                  it
                                                                      is

as impossible to foresee as were the measures adopted
386  INTERESTING LETTER.                                                 [1823.

by England at the time of the French Revolution in

179"2N. otwithstanding we have our share of deists and

infidels, and friends to revolution in general, perhaps

no country in the world can produce so large a pro
portion of friends to religion and social order as En
gland. Many of this class are persons of education,

of talent, and of property. To a very considerable

extent they lead the public mind, and are the firmest
support of the government. But these persons depre
cate, in the strongest manner, all interference of
France in the concerns of Spain, or any other country.
They think that the object and end of every govern
ment ought to be the protection and the happiness of
the people ; that the people of every country are the
best judges of the extent of the protection they enjoy,
and of the degree of their happiness ; and that these

points ought to be settled between them and their

rulers, without any foreign interference whatever.
They say, that all human institutions are susceptible
of improvement, and that, in the progress of light
and knowledge, the institution of government, among
the rest, may undergo a favorable change -- that it
would be wise to admit of reform gradually where it

is obviously needed, lest, by an obstinate resistance to
the current of public opinion, when it happens to be
founded in good sense, and the nature of things, this
current may become so strong as suddenly, and with

great damage, to bear down all before and produce
   revolution. They think that, France succeeds, the

establishment of the horrid inquisition will be one of

its consequences, not only in Spain, but in France
a

                                              if

                                                                    it,
1823.]  TO THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.  387

itself; and that the authority of the Jesuits -- those foes
to real Christianity -- will be established over a great
part of Europe. They are of opinion, that the rapid
progress which this intriguing sect is now making

through France and Italy, ought to strike every friend
to primitive Christianity with alarm and terror. They
maintain, that the spirit of infidelity is not to be put

down by the sword, but can only be conquered with

spiritual weapons.

   "The friends of revealed religion have looked up to

thee, dear Emperor, with tender affection, as a brother

beloved in Jesus Christ --as an honored instrument in
the Divine hand to promote the cause of truth and
righteousness. They have considered thee as one of

their body ; they have felt the reproaches made against

thee as if they had been made, in some measure,

against themselves. As for me, when I am assailed,

as I constantly am, with this language--' What do you

think now of the Emperor of Russia ?' I do not fail to

state my unshaken conviction of the sincerity of his
intentions, and my firm belief that the first wish of his

heart is, to be made instrumental in preserving the
peace and tranquillity of Europe -- that the information
which he has received of the attempts of persons under
the influence of infidel principles to produce revolu

tions, has induced him to take the part which he has

done.

   " And now, dear Emperor, having relieved my mind
upon this subject, I wish to commend thee, with rr.y
own soul, to ' Him who alone is able to keep us from
falling,' and hope that nothing which I have written

may give the smallest offence, or be attributed to any
388  ·           INTERESTING LETTER.             [1823.

party views. I do not belong, nor have I ever belonged,

to any political society. My great object, while con

tinued in this probationary state, to unite with pious

persons, of all denominations, in endeavoring to pro

mote the universal diffusion of Christian principles,
                                     is,

                                        iIf

                                                 it

                                                         I

                                                            if
which are the only solid foundation for the happiness

of man in time and in eternity.
   " Permit me once more to crave thy excuse for

having so frankly and fully laid open my heart.  feel

such a tender attachment to thee that seems as

could go to the end of the world,     could thereby
I
           I
be made instrumental in administering comfort and

encouragement to thy deeply-tried mind. Be assured

that, as feel enabled, my prayers shall continue to

be put up for thee. That the Shepherd of Israel may

preserve thee to the end, the earnest desire of thy
                  a
affectionate and respectful friend,
                     I
                                     "WILLIAM ALLEN."
                              is
His tender and affectionate spirit had now to endurea

a most unexpected trial, and, like many sorrows,
                                     a

                                               I

                                                                 it
was preceded by an event which naturally occasioned

him unfeigned joy.  On the 7th of May,  he tells us:
   " About o'clock  this morning note   was brought
              7

me from dear Cornelius, to say that my precious child

was confined with fine boy about one o'clock this

morning, and that all was going on well. was con-

trited and bowed it: reverent thankfulness at the news,

and when left alone knelt down, and, with tears,

returned thanks, imploring also that the Lord would

bless the child, and make him His."

The next day he received letter from Elias Eliason
1823.]  SERIOUS ILLNESS OF HIS DAUGHTER.  389

Tasted, a Swede, stating that he had been prosecuted
in the courts of Christiansand and Christiana, for bury
ing two of his children without the ceremonies of the
Church, and that judgment was given against him.

Against this unrighteous decree he had petitioned the
King, and now sought Mr. Allen's influence with his
Majesty to reverse it. Immediately he took up

Tasted's case, and wrote to the King to remind him
of the promise that all his subjects should be protected,
which he made to Mr. Allen when he was at Stock

holm in the year 1818.
    On the Qth he took this letter to Baron Steinheilt,

the Swedish Ambassador, to forward to the King of

Sweden; and on his way back he called to see his
daughter and her child both of whom seemed doing
well, " though Mary's pulse was quick."

   The 1 2th was the anniversary of the British and
Foreign School Society, which he attended under
" anxious feelings," as his " dear child was rather
worse." His own touching record will give the
course and termination of the fatal attack :

   " On Second-day, when I found that my beloved
child was seriously ill, I determined to make her my sole

object. I had Dr. Babington called in in addition to

other medical advice, and feeling a more than ordinary
interest in her case, he visited her two or three times

daily. On Fourth-day, the I4th, we were very low
about dear Mary, but not without hope. Fifth-day,
her strength seemed to fail, and watching by her bed

side at night, my soul was poured out in secret
supplication to our compassionate Saviour. When
thinking of the probability of my dearest earthly
390  HER DEATH.  [1823.

treasure, in whom my tenderest affections were con

centrated, being taken from me, I have prayed in an

agony, and with many tears, that such a cup might

pass from me; nevertheless, I dared only ask it in

conformity with the Divine will. Sixth-day, the pulse
was one hundred and sixty, and respiration short, yet
she seemed under no anxiety or fear ; she knew that
her Redeemer lived. Once she fixed her eyes upon
me, and said, ' Dear father, my mind is impressed with

the idea that thou thinkest I shall not recover;' I

replied, that what the termination might be was hid

from us, and that all these cases were very uncertain ;
she pursued the subject no farther. Her precious

spirit was so prepared, that if I had told her she could

not, in my opinion, recover, I believe it would have
been no cause of fear or dismay. There has always
been a sweet, holy feeling about her; indeed, her con

duct was angelic, patient, cheerful and sweet; some

times, in looking at her, I hardly knew how to contain

my grief. This evening, as we stood round her bed,
she smiled upon us all, and looking at each separately,
seemed full of love; she spoke of the little band who
loved one another, and said how sweet was that feel
ing. As long as consciousness remained there was a
heavenly smile upon her countenance. My agony was

great ; all hope had now vanished, and I knelt by her

bedside in strong mental supplication.
   " On Seventh-day morning, the i7th of Fifth Month,

1823, at half past one o'clock, I was deprived, by

death, of this most tenderly beloved and inestimable
child. When her blessed spirit took its flight, we sat
some time in profound silence. Dear Katherine Capper
j1823.  BURIAL OF HIS DAUGHTER.  391

then knelt down, and gave thanks for the inward

assurance that she had entered into the rest that is
prepared for the people of God. She had long been
meekly endeavoring to know and to perform the will

of her Saviour, and I have the most unshaken confi

dence that He has received her unto Himself. Never,
through the whole course of her illness, did the least

repining word escape her ; uniform heavenly tran
quillity rested on her countenance. The disorder

was a severe bilious attack.
   " Sixth day, the 2$d, was a day of close trial ; the

remains of my precious child were deposited in the
Friends' burial ground at Winchmore Hill, after a

meeting appointed at ten o'clock. Robert Forster has
very kindly assisted in the preparations, also my

brother Joseph, who was tenderly attached to the dear

deceased. Cornelius continued to be supported, but

we were both very low. O, what a stroke ! It was a

crowded meeting, as my dear child was universally

Ibeloved, but we were seated in great quietness, and

was thankful for a feeling of deep solemnity; many
Friends spoke in ministry, and the silence was impres
sive. On withdrawing to the ground, a large circle
was formed round the grave, and a solemn stillness

prevailed. Here also several Friends ministered, and

Cornelius knelt down in supplication and thanksgiv
ing, adopting the blessed language, ' Thy will be done.'

I felt bound to offer up thanksgiving, for the belief

mercifully granted, that the dear deceased had been
admitted into the mansions of rest and peace, and to
intercede earnestly on behalf of those young people
standing round the grave, for whom her soul had often
392  HIS DAUGHTER'S CHARACTER.  [1823.

travailed, that their steps might be directed into the

way of peace ; praying, that in the end they might

unite with her in the everlasting Hallelujah."

  A Friend, who had known her from infancy, thus

sums up her character, and shows how severely the
stroke must have been felt : --

   " In early life she evinced an amiable disposition,
united with an excellent understanding. Her talents
were improved by culture, and the bright promises of
youth were realized in riper years. An engaging live
liness of manner was regulated by submission to the
cross of Christ. The influence of her sweet and pious
example was much felt amongst her associates of vari

ous classes, and she was beloved and cherished by a

large circle of friends. Yet was humility a distin
guishing feature in her character. The maturity of her

judgment, and her religious experience, rendered her
capable of being the sympathizing friend, and even, at
times, the counsellor of her tenderly attached father.

   " For several months previous to her decease, her

friends had been struck with her heavenly-mindedness.

The awful summons, though unexpected, did not find

her unprepared. She loved her Saviour --her faith
and her trust were in Him ; and, in contemplating her

lifc and her death, we have an evidence that ' The

work of righteousness is peace, and the effect of right

eousness, quietness and assurance for ever.' "

    No wonder her father should say of such a daugh
ter :--" I had fondly looked to her, as to one calculated

to be useful in the church, and in the world at large;
and had hoped that she would be the comfort and
support of my declining years, should they be length-
1824.]          SUMMARY OF THE YEAR.             393

ened out. But, ah ! it was otherwise ordered by him

who doeth all things well."

  At the following Yearly Meeting the testimony of

Friends who knew and loved the deceased was read
to the assembled congregation, and " had a baptizing

effect on the meeting." One present on that occasion

remarked, that so great was the impression produced

on every mind, that it reminded her of the text, "The

house was filled with the odor of the ointment." How

acute his sufferings were on account of his loss will

be readily believed, yet it is pleasant to observe in his

deepest grief the struggles he puts forth against undue

despondency. Passages in his diary similar to the

following often occur; -- "My spirits fail very much :
I scarcely feel energy to get through what is before
me, but I must rouse myself, as this depression nour

ishes that sorrow which brings spiritual death." That

spiritual death did not visit him, he gives unquestion

able evidence, both in his persevering efforts for the

felicity of all around him, and in the evidences of his

elevated piety. What can be a greater proof of this

than the following consecration of himself to the
                                                 1824: --
Saviour   with  which    he commenced the year
   " The  year  that is  passed has been marked   by deep

tribulation ; with exquisite and inexpressible anguish,

in the loss of my only and most tenderly beloved
child, --yet it is some mitigation of my sorrow that a

tender shoot from that blessed stock has been permit

ted, so far to thrive. What events may mark the pre

sent year, I must leave ; but O, Thou ! who hast

mercifully been with me all my life long, in heights

and in depths, forsake me not at last, O God of my
391  LECTURES AT BOARDING SCHOOL.  '

                                      [1824.

Isalvation ! but grant that may know more and more

of a union and communion with thy beloved Son, the
Lamb immaculate, and witness the efficacy of his pre

cious blood in cleansing me from all sin. O, be pleased

to enable me to consecrate to thy service whatever
portion of my life may remain, and make me instru
mental in thy hand in drawing souls to thee! that

when thou art pleased to say, ' It is enough,' I may be
permitted to join my beloved child, with my dearest
Mary and Charlotte, among those who are raising the

eternal Hallelujah !"
   Very pleasing results of his continental efforts for

the spread of education continually reached him and

cheered him onward in his benevolent work. At one

time he learned that the Emperor of Russia had begun
to establish military schools, one in every regiment;
at another, that the school plans which he was so
anxious to promote when in Sweden were now patron

ized by the government, and spreading through the

country. At Newington a Friends' boarding school
was established by Mr. Allen and other Friends, under
the care of Susannah Corder, a well-qualified precep

tress. Its object was not only to give the pupils an

enlarged and enlightened acquaintance with scientific
and classical literature, but that young persons, whose

talents might indicate a fitness for instructing and di
recting the minds of children, as teachers, either in

private families or in schools, should have an oppor
tunity of acquiring, at moderate expense, a competent
knowledge of the ancient and modern languages, and
of the other branches of a liberal education. Besides
attending "the readings on First and Fourth-day
1824.]  DECISION RESPECTING LANARK.  395

evenings," which Mr. Allen found times of spiritual
refreshment to himself, and made times of spiritual

knowledge to the pupils, his efforts to promote the
improvement and gratification of the young people
were unremitting. He went through a course of

lectures, which he annually repeated, on mechanics,

chemistry, and natural and experimental philosophy,

and spared no pains to make these lectures an efficient
channel of conveying information to the minds of his

juvenile auditors, by familiar explanations, and by a
variety of experiments with his extensive and valuable
apparatus. He occasionally enjoyed exhibiting to
them the beauties of the heavens through his excel
lent telescope. Many of his friends were also permitted
to share in the privilege of these instructions, and his
animated and interesting explanations, united with a
peculiar benignity of manner, rendered such occasions
particularly delightful. Many who have passed the
boundaries of youth, and some who have attained the
meridian of life, can recur to the deeply interesting
lessons which he imparted --to his Christian admoni

tions and fatherly care, --as among the special privi
leges of their earlier days.

   The education of the children in the mills at
Lanark, under the superintendence of Owen, gave
him great uneasiness. It was very evident to the
London proprietors that he wished to make New
Lanark an infidel establishment, which they were

equally determined to oppose. Consequently they

came to the decision that Robert Owen had materially
deviated from the articles of partnership, and could no
longer be considered as the manager. He was fur-
396  EXPERIMENTS AT LINDFIELD.  [1824.

Tf,nished with a copy of the resolution, and, according
to the articles, was offered to take a month to consider
   I
whether he would apply to arbitrators or not. During
                       it
a meeting at Plough-court, at which Robert Owen
                                                        a ig
was present, they told him plainly their immutable
determination to have the schools conducted, accord     I
ing to the articles of partnership, on Christian princi

ples. At length Owen gave way, and submitted to
act under them. They then obtained a well-trained

master from the Borough-road, took him down to the
mills, and invested him with authority to carry out
the scriptural education of the children without the
interference of Owen, and established other regula

tions calculated to benefit the population, and to
promote the religious improvement of all classes.
" indeed," as Mr.. Allen observes, " Divine Provi
dence has permitted me to come into this concern to

aid in preventing becoming an infidel establishment,
then must stand firm." And to this firmness in

himself and coadjutors, thousands who are now men

and women, have to bless God that the poisonous
seeds of infidelity were not permitted to be sown in

their youthful education.
    During his visit to Sussex in the year 1824, the

norance of the peasantry and their consequent vi

cious habits, determined him to do something to raise
them from their degradation. He had written
pamphlet which he entitled " Colonies at Home,"
which he was persuaded contained the elements of
moral and national elevation, and he selected Lindfield
as the spot on which his plans should be tried. "
 am occupied," he says " in experiments in agriculture,
1824.]  ESTABLISHING SCHOOLS.  397

calculated to find out the means of subsistence for a
poor man and his family on two acres of land, and am
corresponding with persons of experience in different
parts of the country, on the best appropriation of the
land, and the best plan for cottages. I have obtained

much valuable information in this way."
   His first object was to secure an eligible piece of

land for the establishment of a school of industry at

Lindfield. A poor but excellent old man, Stephen

Wood, warmly entered into his plans for promoting
the welfare of the laboring classes, and subsequently
proved an efficient coadjutor. In 1825 he more fully
prosecuted his plans. He erected three commodious
school-rooms, one for boys, one for girls, and one for
infants, for each of which he obtained a teacher; a

small lending library, which he generously furnished,

was attached to them ; reading, writing, and arithme
tic, with other branches of useful knowledge, were
taught on the liberal principles of the British and

Foreign School Society ; the children were daily in

structed from the Holy Scriptures, and though no
catechism of any peculiar sect was admitted, it was

expected that every child, on the Sabbath, should
attend the place of worship to which its parents

belonged.

   Some of the elder boys were employed a portion of
the day on the school farm, under a skilful husband
man, some in a printing office, and others in different

works of manual labor, for which workshops were
built; whilst the girls were taught needlework, knit

ting, &c., and even the infants learnt to make patch

work and to plait straw.
398  COTTAGES AT LINDFIELD.  [1825.

   Soon after the establishment of the schools, his
highly respected and valuable friend John Smith, Esq.,
M. P., (late of Dale Park, Sussex) a man abounding
in those feelings of benevolence and Christian charity
which actuated the mind of Mr. Allen, visited the

place, and approving highly of the object, purchased
the estate of Gravely, consisting of about one hundred
acres, in the immediate neighborhood of Lindfield;
and subsequently built upon it eighteen cottages for
laborers, with an acre and a quarter of land to each.

Seven other cottages, with from five to six acres, each,

were also erected, and a small house as an occasional

residence for Mr. Allen. Every cottage had three or

more chambers, in order to afford suitable accommo

dation to the families ; a living room, and a small
washhouse or kitchen, with an oven and boiler; and

convenient little out-houses, including a pig-sty, were
attached to each. The laborer usually cultivated one
half of his acre in potatoes, or some other green crop,
and one half in corn, thus providing for the alternate
changes requisite for the land; the quarter of an acre
was laid out in a garden, and being often very pro

ductive in fruit and vegetables, contributed materially
to the support of the family.

   In the small parish where these plans were adopted,
the necessity of such a system was strikingly evinced
by the fact, that the sum of five hundred pounds ha I
been expended out of the poor's rates in one year
upon able bodied persons and their families. Mr.
Allen considered that the allotment system was not
only a means of rendering the laboring poor less
chargeable to their parishes, but of greatly increasing
1825.]  INTERESTING LETTER ON IRELAND.  39'J

their comforts and improving their moral habits, the

land and garden always affording some employment,

and inviting to industry.
   After a lengthened tour in Ireland, he was very

anxious to introduce the system of agriculture, de
scribed in his " Colonies at Home," into that country.
Miss Edgeworth, in a letter containing the following
amusing and spirited observations, describes how it
was likely to be received by that downtrodden

peasantry.

   " Your plans of improved agriculture and economy

appear most feasible and most promising on paper ;

but I fear that in attempting to carry them into execu ·

tion in this country, there would be found obstacles
of which you can form no estimate, without a more
intimate knowledge of the habits of the peasantry of
Ireland than a first visit to this country could afford,
or, in short, anything but long residence could give.
Their want of habits of punctuality and order would

embarrass you at every step, and prevent your carry
ing into effect those regular plans in which it is essen
tial that they must join for their own advantage.
Your dairy plans, for instance, which have succeeded
so well in Switzerland, would not do in this country --
at least, not without a century's experiments. Paddy
would/rt// to disputing with the dairyman, would go
to law with him for his share of the common cow's

milk, or for her trespassing, or he would pledge his
eighth or sixteenth part of her for his rent, or his
bottle of whisky, and the cow would be pounded and

re-pledged, and r^-pounded and bailed and canted ;

and tllings impossible for you to foresee, perhaps im-
400  INTERESTING LETTER ON IRELAND.  [1825.

possible for your English imagination to conceive,
would happen to the cow and the dairyman. In all
your attempts to serve my poor dear countrymen you
would find, that whilst you were demonstrating 'to them
what would be their greatest advantage, they would
be always making out a short cut, not a royal road,
but a bog-road, to their own ^-objects. Paddy would

be most grateful, most sincerely, warmly grateful to
you, and would bless your honor, and your honor's
honor, with all his heart ; but he would, nevertheless,

not scruple on every practicable occasion, to

to to cheat, I will not say,-- that is a coarse
word,--but to circumvent you ; at every turn you

would find Paddy trying to walk round you, begging
your honor's pardon -- hat off", bowing to the ground

to you --all the while laughing in your face if you
found him out, and, if he outwitted you, loving you

all the better for being such an innocent.
   " Seriously, there is no doubt that the Irish people

would, like all other people, learn honesty, punctuality,
order, and ccomomy, with proper motives and proper
training, and in due time, but do not leave time out of

your account. Very sorry should I be, either in jest
or earnest, to discourage any of that enthusiasm of

benevolence which animates you in their favor. But,
as Paddy himself would say, ' Sure it is better to be

disappointed in the beginning than in the end.' Each

failure in attempts to do good, in this country, dis
courages the friends of humanity, and encourages the
railers, scoffers, and croakers, and puts us back in
hope, perhaps half a century; therefore, think well
1825.]      DEATH OF EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.               401

before you begin, and begin upon a small scale, which

you    may  extend as you  please afterwards.         rich,
   "        may, in some   instances, find generous,
      You

and judicious landlords, who will assist you; but do

not depend upon it that this will be general, else you

will be cruelly disappointed, not in promises, but in

performance.

   "The mixture of agriculture and manufactures, I

have no doubt, makes the happiest system for the
people, and whether this tended most to the riches of
a state or not, the balance of comfort and happiness
would decide a friend of humanity in its favor."

   In the year 1825, the sad news of the death of his
friend the Emperor of Russia reached this country.

A rumor was circulated that he had been assassinated,

but a messenger arrived from St. Petersburg, bringing
official intelligence that the Emperor died on the 1st of
December of fever and inflammation of the throat. In

a letter to Prince Alexander Galitzin, Mr. Allen
describes thj deep sorrow occasioned by this unex

pected calamity :
   " Never, except in the loss of those most nearly

connected with me by the ties of nature, have I known

anguish of heart equal to that which I experienced

when I first heard the news of the illness and death of

the beloved Alexander ; but, after a time, it seemed as

if I felt sympathy with his redeemed and glorified
spirit, and I could only contemplate him as one of the
just wade perfect, and forever centred in his Heavenly

Father's rest."

   The grief was, however, mitigated by the thought

that in mercy he was taken from the evil to come.
402  CONCLUDING LECTURES.  [Ib27.

The opponents of Evangelical religion had acquired

enormous power, compelled the Emperor to banish

Gosncr from Petersburg, and endeavored by means
lawful and unlawful, to stop the circulation of the
Bible. Had he lived, Mr. Allen considered, that in

the conflicts which were evidently preparing for him,
he might have been led to commit some act which

would have caused regret and tarnished his reputation.

   For twenty-five years Mr. Allen had continued his

lectures on chemistry and natural philosophy at Guy's

Hospital, with such acceptance and popularity as are

rarely accorded to one individual for so long a period.

At the close of the session of 1826 he determined,

amidst the regrets of many, to relinquish them. After
concluding a course on astronomy, he delivered an

address to the students, which for its scientific, practi

cal, and religious qualities, deserved, what the audience
unanimously desired, that it should be printed ; and it
now stands as an undying witness of the faithful and

enlightened sentiments which for a quarter of a cen
tury he had been diligently sowing in the minds of
that important class of public men -- medical practi

tioners.

  A new epoch in the year 1827 opened upon his

eventful life. For years he and Mrs. Grizell Birkbeck
had been upon terms of friendship. The peculiar cir
cumstances of his family led him often to seek her help

and counsel; and, in his afflictions and deep bereave

ments, she was his kind and sympathizing adviser.

"It was not, however," he says, "till after I lost my

beloved child, who was, as it were, my last earthly
prop, that a more intimate union than that of friend-
1827.]  MARRIAGE WITH HIS THIRD WIFE.  408.

ship opened to my view ; and now the time appears

nearly come for its completion. Should this step

appear singular, let it be remembered, that the dis

pensations through which I have had to pass have

been singularly afflictive."
   The marriage took place on the I4th of March, and

was to him a great solace. During the summer and

autumn they spent some time at Lindfield, superin
tending the important concerns of his newly formed

colony. In the course of the year he started a periodi
cal entitled "The Philanthropic Magazine," designed

as a repository for hints and suggestions calculated to
promote the comfort and happiness of man. It was

entirely under his direction, and, while answering the
design of its title in an admirable manner, it also gave
employment to the pupils in his school of industry at

Lindfield, where he had it printed. Few men more
fully carried out the exhortation of the apostle, "always
abounding in the work of the Lord."
                     CHAPTER XVI.

DEATH OF HIS MOTHER -- VISITS PRUSSIA, AUSTRIA, AND

                                          HUNGARY.

   DURING the year 1828 Mr. Allen pursued his noise
less course of benevolent usefulness with untiring
assiduity. Each opening morn found in him a spirit
of joyous acquiescence in divine appointments --a
suitable qualification for any enterprise for God.

   " Storm of wind and rain in the night. Very much
water has fallen lately, so that I have been thoughtful
about our agricultural concerns ; but, as I lay rumi
nating on this subject, 1 remembered the depth of
resignation to which a pious individual of France had
arrived, in being able thus to express himself, 'What
ever pleases God, pleases me.' O, how sweet and
peaceful is a state of entire submission to the Divine
will !"

   Duties connected with his own religious body -- his
colony at Lindfield --a vast continental correspond
ence, and especially the abolition of slavery in the
British Colonies, which seemed now arriving at a
crisis, occupied his time fully. In the latter engage
ments, having to meet with persons in authority, and
to cope with interested prejudices, his motives and
conduct were sometimes misconstrued, but he had
learned the holy art of extracting good out of evil,

                                                    (404)
1828.]  D'JUNKOVSKY'S EDUCATION.  405

and of returning good for evil. "If," he observes,

" favored to feel our blessed Saviour near, it will not
signify if we should be neglected or even despised by
men. I have, within these few days, been led to con

template our Holy Pattern, who, when He was reviled,
reviled not again. It will be no small attainment to
avoid showing any signs of uneasiness when we are

slighted."

   General D'Junkovsky, who was very attentive and
kind to Mr. Allen during his residence in Peters
burg, sent his son, about twenty years of age, to

England, to receive instruction in the English language,
mathematics, and agriculture. The Emperor had ex
pressed a wish that Mr. Allen would notice him. This
was enough to excite in Mr. Allen's mind a deep
interest in the young man, and as he was likely, if he

lived, to have great influence in Russia, and become
the instrument of extensive good, Mr. Allen determined

to take him into his own house, and superintend his

education. The course which Mr. Allen pursued with

reference to D'Junkovsky's best interests, he describes
in a letter to Prince Galitzin :--

   " During the time that the young man has been in
my family, now about three years, I have endeavored
to encourage him in a course of piety and virtue, with
out attempting to interfere with his peculiar religious
opinions, and I have the comfort of believing, that he
looks for salvation from no other source than ' Christ

crucified.' He has conducted himself so as to gain my

love and esteem, and my desire is that our blessed Sav
iour may, by the sweet influences of his love, draw him

nearer and nearer unto Himself, so that he may possess
406  D'JUNKOVSKY'S GRATITUDE.  [1828.

that peace which passeth all understanding, and become

useful to his country and to society at large."
   Soon after D'Junkovsky returned to St. Petersburg,

out of the fulness of a grateful heart, he sent to Mr.
Allen the warm expressions of its love, which he had
been the happy instrument of fostering :--

    Whenever I take the pen to address you, my
Dearest and best friend, I want to persuade myself that
I am still near to you, enjoying the privilege of your

company ; but the distance which now separates me

from your kindness, and the probability that I shall

never, perhaps, have the pleasure of seeing you again,
soon undeceive me. Your long continued and un

bounded kindness, which I experienced during more

than three years ; the constant intercourse with you

to which I became accustomed, together with your

fatherly advices, have left such an impression upon my

mind that now, being deprived of your presence, I feel

a kind of emptiness in my heart. Whenever I think
of you, my sincere wish and prayer is, that the Al

mighty God may pour his blessings upon you and

upon yours."
   The General, his father, sensible of the incalculable

benefits his son had received from Mr. Allen's super

intendence, and religious, though not sectarian counsel,

thus beautifully expressed his acknowledgments :--
   " With a full sense' of the humblest gratitude to the

Lord for the safe return of my son Alexander to his

country, I feel most particularly his divine mercy, in

having made you the instructor, protector, and second
father to my son, all the time of his long residence in

England. This is all I can say; for when a man has
1829.]  SUCCESS OF SCHOOL EFFORTS.  407

received obligations beyond all manner of compensa

tion, he can do no more, but silently adore the Provi

dence, who alone can compensate the good done to

him."

Many of the engagements of this year, though

important in the course of their fulfilment, and calcu

lated to promote the great objects which he kept

steadily in view, yet presented little that was new, or

of a character to claim public notice. Two circum

stances, however, which transpired at its close, relieved

him of an anxiety under which he had formerly suffered

One was the dissolution of partnership with Mr. Owen

and his two sons ; the other was the accomplishment
of the purpose of'the British and Foreign School Com

mittee to raise three thousand pounds, by which all

his advances were  paid off, and  threemSaorkcsie, ty"baeftcearmea
freed from debt.    " Thus," he

struggle of more than twenty years, has Divine Provi

dence been pleased to crown this most interesting
work with success ; indeed, He seems to have watched

over and fostered it in a very peculiar manner. I felt

reverently thankful."

   In the early part of 1829, his principles were tested
by an attempt to introduce into the pages of the
" Library of Useful Knowledge," the well nigh athe

istic sentiments circulated through Germany in the

philosophy of Kant. He had taken a deep interest

in the cheap and valuable literature circulated by means

of the society of which that library was the organ,

and greatly contributed to its success ; but friendship
for the eminent men with whom he was accustomed

to associate, would not allow him to sacrifice his con-
408  LETTER TO MR. BROUGHAM.  [1829.

science, by seeming, as a member of the Committee,
to acquiesce in the antiscriptural sentiments of that

author. He therefore sent the following admirable

letter to his friend, Mr. Brougham: --

                                " 1 jth of Third Month, 1829.
          " MY DEAR FRIEND,
   " It is with no small degree of alarm that I perceive,
by a circular, a proposal to make the philosophy of
Kant, an article in the ' Library of Useful Knowledge.'
Much as I admire some parts of the character of that
philosopher, and the ingenuity of his system, I cannot
but consider it dangerous to quit the solid ground of
fact and experiment, and enter the aerial regions of
metaphysics, where we may soon become the sport of
various winds of doctrine, and the partizans of infidel
ity. As a system of ethics, and a code of rules for

conduct, the Holy Scriptures stand pre-eminent; they
delineate the character of Jehovah, and develop the
mystery of salvation by Christ in a manner which can

never be equalled by any uninspired writer; and 1
cannot but feel uneasy when I find Kant, although no
atheist, declaring ' that we have no certainty in our
knowledge of God, because certainty cannot exist

except when it is founded on an object of experience.'
Again, -- ' The proofs of natural theology, taken from
the order and beauty of the universe, are proofs only
in appearance ; they resolve themselves into a bias of

our reason, to suppose an Infinite Intelligence the
Author of all that is possible; but from this bias it does

not follow that there really is such an Author.' I am
1830.] ILLNESS AND DEATH OF HIS MOTHER.           409

somewhat alarmed again in reading the article just
published on the character of Mahomet.

   " On the whole, if this article of Kant comes out,

may I beg thee to erase my name from the com

mittee, that neither nor anything of the kind, may
I
come forth with the least sanction from me.
     I
                                             :"Accept, my dear friend, two tracts on the evi
                                      it,
dences of the Christian religion. Pray, for my sake,
                                                     is
read them through.    " Ever thine cordially.
                                        I" To HENRY BROUGHAM,M. P."

                                                     f<At the close of 1829, the desire which his sainted
                                                            I
                                                                 is Imother had often expressed to " go home," was about

to be realized, to the no small grief her tenderly

attached son --

   " sat by her bedside, and read to her in the Scrip

tures, but she appeared to have little consciousness.

My prayers were put up, that He whom she had loved

and desired to serve above all, might be graciously

pleased to support and comfort her in the needful time.

believe that her day's work done, and that she has

only to wait till her change come, which have no

doubt will be unspeakably happy."

   The weakness increased, and on the i6th January,
1830, he writes, -- "About seven o'clock my beloved

parent sweetly slept in Jesus.     was uncommonly

affected, but sensible of strong inward support.                       be

lieve the Master was with us, and the heavenly

solemnity with which we were favored seemed to

proclaim, in language louder than Words, 'All well,

everlastingly well.' Although all that was within me
410  ANECDOTE OF THE QUEEN.  [1830.

of nature felt the separation, yet the tribute of thanks
giving was raised to our God, who has supported her

all her life long, and was, I believe, mercifully with

her at the solemn close. During her long protracted
state of helplessness, it has been evident to those
around her, that her faith and hope were firmly fixed
upon Christ Jesus, the dear Son of God, and that her
only hope of salvation was by and through him."

   " 22nd.-- The interment of the remains of our pre

cious mother took place at Stoke Newington to-day.

A sweet evidence of peace was felt in standing round
the grave, where I had to bear testimony to the good

ness of God, who had been the refuge and strength
of my beloved parent."

  About this time, Mr. Allen Irecords,-1--" accom

panied E. J. Fry to Kensington Palace, to meet the
Duchess of Kent, and her daughter the Princess Vic
toria. It was a satisfactory interview. The Princess
has much of her father's countenance, and appears

exceedingly amiable."
   On one of these interviews at Kensington Palace,

the following incident occurred, which Mr. Allen used
to relate with great interest : -- When our present
beloved sovereign was a little girl, she was at a window
looking out on the crowd of persons in the gardens.
Her amiable mother, to whose education of her

daughter this country owes so much, begged her to
come from the window, which the little Princess either

did not, or would not, hear. The command was

repeated, and when she slowly came away, her mother
asked her what was the reason she did not come im
mediately. With an air of majesty that intimated
1830.]   DEATH OP CONTINEAS.  411

the future Queen, she replied, " I was surveying my

people."

   In August he received a letter from Fad££v of
Ekaterinoslav, which conveyed the tidings of the death

of the venerable Contineas, in his 8 1st year. Unable
to write himself, the aged pilgrim dictated, in terms of
grateful affection, a letter to Mr. Allen. After stating
that it was the last he should address to him, and ex

pressing a hope that they should meet in glory, he

adds, --
   " The passage of Holy Scripture, with which you

concluded your last letter, 2 Cor. v. 2, is ever present

to my mind : ' For in this we groan, earnestly desiring

to be clothed upon with our house, which is from

heaven. If so be that being clothed, we shall not be

found naked.' My aspirations are constantly raised to

our Saviour and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, that through

the operation of his grace in my soul I may be clothed,

and not found naked.

   " I beseech you, my very dear friend, to remember
in your prayers one who remains, and will continue to
the last breath of his life, your devoted and sincere

friend,

         "S. CONTINEAS."

   Fad66v says --" His end was that of the perfect
man --full of peace. For thirty years he has watched

over these colonies with indefatigable labor, and he
has desired to remain their benefactor even after his
death ; for nearly all his little property of his simple
self-denying life, is bequeathed to the schools which
were under his care."
412 THE DUKE OF SUSSEX VISITS LINDFIELD. [1831.

   The interest excited by the various plans in opera
tion at Lindfield, induced persons of rank and influence
to visit the establishment. Those who were depend
ent upon their own industry for support were also
attracted towards this scene of benevolent exertion,

and it sometimes happened that the parties incidentally
assembled not only occupied different positions in
society, but held very different opinions. Mr. Allen,
however, with that genuine hospitality and Christian
kindness for which he was distinguished, gave all
a welcome, and was ever ready to furnish information
to the inquirer, or to render assistance to the needy.

   The Earl of Chichester, who is Lord of the Manor
of Lindfield, in accordance with the example of his
late worthy father, patronized some of the efforts made
for the benefit of the poor in that neighborhood, and

on many occasions gave his personal attendance to
promote the objects in view. Several other noblemen,
amongst whom was Lord Brougham, also inspected
the establishment, and at the commencement of 1831
the little colony, then consisting of twenty-five cot

tages, was visited by one of the royal family. The
Duke of Sussex had many times cordially entered
into Mr. Allen's plans for improving the condition of

the laboring classes, and had promised to go and see
his schools and cottage allotments. When he was at
Brighton, arrangements were accordingly made for

the accomplishment of his purpose ; on the 3d of
January Mr. Allen met him a few miles from Lindfield,

and escorted him to Gravely cottage, where, with his
accustomed affability and kindness, the Duke mingled
in the family circle, and partook of some simple refresh-
1830.]  SUCCESSFUL EXPERIMENT  413

ment. He afterwards visited one of the cottages on a

five-acre farm, and one of those for laborers, and also
went over the schools and workshops. He received

some tracts printed at the establishment, and warmly
expressed his approbation of what he had witnessed.

   This must have been a great triumph to Mr. Allen ;

for though he had to cope with prejudice on the one
hand, and indifference on the other, his persevering
exertions produced obvious benefits on the habits of

the people. The appearance of the children became
more orderly and respectable ; the dwelling of the cot

tager presented comforts to which the poor man had
before been a stranger, and he was in divers instances

withdrawn from a dependence on the parish for aid in

the support of his wife and family, his allotment of

land enabling him to provide for them by his own

industry.

   " My object," remarks Mr. A., " in taking Gravely

Farm, was to prove, by an experiment under the public

eye, that it is possible to render the agricultural laborer
independent of parish relief, even with his present very
low wages, by letting him have a little land upon fair
terms, and directing him in the cultivation of it. This

experiment has succeeded."
   The Secretary of State being about to introduce

into the House of Commons a bill for the consolidation
of the Forgery Acts, but not for the exemption of the
punishment of death in all cases of forgery, Mr. Allen,
addressing the Duke of Wellington on the subject,

remarks :

" The framer of the bill on forgery was never more
41i ADDRESSES THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON. [1830.

mistaken than when he asserted that public opinion

was not strong enough to warrant him in going fur

ther than he there stated. He may depend upon                       is it,
that as the public ought not to be, so they will not be

satisfied until our criminal code be more thoroughly

purified. All who have travelled know that there

no nation in Christendom that has such a code, and

nothing; if      plainer than that notoriously fails in
                                               I I it
affording adequate protection to the public. Casesis

are constantly occurring in the city of London, where

persons are detected whose lives would certainly be

taken the case were followed up, the proofs being as

clear as possible but on account of the state of the
                 ;

                  if
law, they are suffered to escape to commit fresh depre

dations whereas,      the punishment were short of

death, the injured parties would feel a duty to prose
                                                       it

cute. And, above all, let me entreat the Duke to

consider, that the punishment of death, though awarded

under the Mosaic law, nowhere sanctioned by our
                        is is
merciful Redeemer, but directly contrary to his glo

rio"usThgiosspreelprdoisapcehnstaotiouns. must,        am sure, in time be

done away, and glad should be to see the noble

Duke add this trophy to those peaceful ones which
have so lately claimed the admiration of the thinking

part of the community.  I      remain with cordial attach

ment and esteem, thine very respectfully,

                                                 " WILLIAM ALLEN."

   Two days afterwards the Duke sent the following
answer to Mr. Allen
                  :
1831.]  ON THE FORGERY LAWS.                                  415

"Mv DEAR SIR:  London, April 26th, 1830.

   " I have received your letter, and am much obliged

to you for the enclosure. I am afraid that you and I

shall not agree upon the subject of the Forgery Bill;

but I shall consider what you urge upon with the
        I
                                                         it,
attention which always give to whatever comes from

you. Believe me, my dear Sir, yours very faithfully,

                                            " WELLINGTON."

   Mr. Barry being set at liberty from the business in;

Plough-court, for three or four months labored nightit
and day for the abolition of capital punishment in casesa
of forgery and was owing to his exertions that Sir
               a
Robert Peel found himself in minority in the House
of Commons in one stage of the business.

    Intelligence was received from Paris that the Cham
ber of Deputies, with a majority of nine to one, voted

an address to the King for law to abolish the punish
ment of death, except for political offences, --" a glo

rious step in this great cause!"

    Mr. Ewart then energetically took up the subject,

and gained much of his information from Mr. Allen;
but a dissolution of the ministry taking place on the
Reform Bill, the motion of which he had given notice,
could not be brought forward till the end of May,
1832. The Duke of Sussex, unable to attend the

public meeting ol the Capital Punishment Society on
account of illness, expressed his opinions to Mr. Allen

in the following note
               :

                                            I
" By calmness, firmness, and honesty,          trust that
416  VISITS FRIENDS IN VARIOUS COUNTIES.  [1832.

order and confidence will be restored ; these we want
on every account, for without them no good can be
produced, and good men are discouraged from working

in the vineyard. Most anxious am I to promote the

great object for which we were to have met this day,

but I am unwell, which therefore incapacitates me.

Wishing you health and happiness, and that you may
prosper in all your useful and active operations believe

me, " Your sincere friend,

                                         " AUGUSTUS FREDERICK."

   On the 3Oth of May, Mr. Ewart's bill passed the
Committee of the House of Commons triumphantly.
The exertions made to procure the attendance of
members proved very successful. About one hundred
and sixty were present, and Mr. Allen observes, that
" Sir Robert Peel stood almost alone in his opposition."

So far the cause for which he had perseveringly labored
was accelerated, and will doubtless ultimately triumph.

   Stephen Grellet, having a prospect of religious ser
vice on this side of the Atlantic, proceeded to Stoke

Newington, where the two dear fellow laborers in the
cause of their Divine Master embraced each other
with grateful joy. Mr. Allen determined, though at

considerable sacrifice, to accompany his friend through

Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Dorsetshire, and Hampshire;
and again, at the beginning of the year 1832, through
Gloucester, Bristol, Devonshire, and Cornwall. The

object was a missionary tour to stir up the faith and
devotion of the several associations of Friends in the

various towns through which they passed, and especi-
1832.]  IN DANGER FROM THE CHOLERA.  417

ally to visit privately those families where their pious

influence might awaken more love to Christ and de
cision for his service. " Such visits," Stephen Grellet

remarks, "bring into view plants that are growing
under shade, which cannot be discovered in the crow

ded Yearly or Quarterly Meetings ; thereby likewise
the bond of unity and fellowship becomes strengthened ;
or, as our Indians say, ' the chain of friendship is
made bright.' "

   On various occasions Mr. Allen records in his diary

his thankfulness to God for the comfort he enjoyed in

his domestic circle -- his wife encouraging, often at
the sacrifice of much of his valued society, rather than
checking his anxieties to be useful. When at Fal-
mouth he notes :-- " Here was I comforted by a letter

from my beloved wife ; she is inexpressibly dear to me,
and is indeed a true helpmeet." During this visitation
Stephen Grellet pressed William Allen to accompany
him on a tour to the Continent, and, after some delib

eration and prayer for divine guidance, he determined
to undertake the journey. Through the kindness of
several persons in authority he was furnished with

documents calculated to facilitate their progress ; and

on the morning of the 4th of July he took leave of

his family for Rotterdam with great solemnity, reading

the chapter in Hebrews on faith, " My mind was peace

ful in the settled conviction that I am in the line of

my duty, and that this journey is not lightly under

taken. Our blessed Master was, I trust, near, enabling

us to overcome the feelings of nature for his sake" In
consequence of the cholera prevailing at that time in
England a quarantine of seven days had to be endured
418  QUARANTINE AT HELVOETSLUYS.  [1832.

between Helvoetsluys and Rotterdam. On their
arrival at Helvoetsluys, the officer of health came
alongside the vessel, the papers were handed out in
tongs, put into some fluid, and then given to him. They

then proceeded to Tiengemeten, towing a gun-boat
with two cannons pointed towards them, in order to
prevent the escape of any person from the ship. In
the course of the next morning a foreign sailor, who

had been ashore from the vessel, and was in the habit

of drinking to excess, was seized with cholera. This

event spread a general gloom over the passengers.
" On the arrival of the medical man," says Mr. Allen,

" I went on deck to see him ; the preparations he made

to come on board were rather appalling; he took off
his cap and coat and put on a long, black, oiled silk
gown, which reached to his feet, black gloves of the
same material, and a black hood which covered his

head and face, excepting the nose and eyes. The

doctor was very attentive, coming five times in the
course of the day ; his efforts were, however, unavail

ing, and about nine o'clock he witnessed the dissolution
of his poor patient. This produced a great bustle ;
our situation was a trying one, and the awfulness of
the scene was heightened by a storm of thunder and

lightning. I had a humble hope that we should not

be forsaken.

   "First-day. -- We are both favored with usual health.

The third poor man from our ship died this morning.
We left the vessel to day, and had quarters assigned
us in a large warehouse, which is without windows,

but there are openings with shutters, which are all
closed but one. We proceeded, in Robinson Crusoe
1832.]  RELEASED FROM QUARANTINE.  419

fashion, to make the best use of our resources, and by
the aid of boxes, benches, etc., managed to procure a
table and seats, which we placed in one corner of our
large room. The gnats or musquitoes annoy us very
much, but Stephen and I are favored to feel peace,
resignation, and unity of spirit under these new cir
cumstances. We read the I7th chapter of the Gospel
of John, and also some of the Psalms, after which we

had a silent pause, and were refreshed by the precious
feeling of soul sustaining help."

   The persons whose quarantine had expired received
an order for their liberation. Many ran to the water
side, earnest to know their doom, and when the com

manding officer opened his despatches, and announced
that they were at liberty to depart, there was a general
shout, waving of hats, running, leaping, and every
demonstration of joy. The Baron de Falck, the Am
bassador from France, and his lady, were performing

quarantine at the same place, and though separated in
lodgings, by mutual good offices the two parties ren
dered their imprisonment tolerable, and even useful.
Mr. Allen lent them books on subjects to which his

whole life had been devoted, and they took tea with
him on the grass under the trees by which their habi
tation was surrounded, to enjoy the benefit of his
conversation on slavery, general instruction, and other

topics of the deepest interest. " I maintained," says

Mr. Allen, " the doctrine of principle against that of
expediency, proving that no plea of expediency could
justify the continuance for a moment of that which is

gross wickedness in the Divine sight."

    Released from quarantine, they reached Rotterdam
420  INFANT SCHOOL AT AMSTERDAM.  [1832.

on the I5th, had religious communications with some
seriously disposed persons, and proceeded direct to
Amsterdam on the i jth. Here they visited an infant
school erected under singular circumstances, and re
maining as a noble monument of the principles of
Friends against receiving any gain from war. During
the war, a vessel in which Mr. John Warder, a Friend,
had some share, captured a Dutch vessel of considerable
value. Much pains were taken to find out the real
owners of the property, and a great part of it was

restored to them ; but as some could never be traced
it was appropriated to the establishment of an infant
school at Amsterdam. This was the first institution
of the kind in Holland, and now there are infant

schools in all the large towns in that kingdom.
   The travellers reached Zwoll on the 2 1st, and pro

ceeded to visit the colonies at Frederick's Oord, when,

a great experiment was making for the benefit of the
poor. They are nine miles in length, and situated in
the province of Overyssel, in North Holland, east of
the Zuyder Zee. " The number of paupers in Holland,
in consequence of want of employment, was distress
ingly great, and became a heavy public burden. In 1818,
the ' Soci£t6 de Bienfaisance,' was instituted, with the
object of bettering their condition. The subscriptions

were in small sums, but the members were extremely

numerous, and the organization was so excellent, that

its ramifications subsequently extended throughout the
whole of Holland. The government wisely patronized

this undertaking in its first stages, and still continues
its paternal care towards it. The society resolved upon
trying the plan of cottage husbandry for the poor.
1832.]  DESCRIPTION OF FREDERICK'S OORD.  421

Fifteen hundred of the most destitute were collected,

cottages were built, land was laid out, stock was pro

vided, and such judicious arrangements were made,
that those very persons who were before quite a bur
den to the community, did much towards their own

support. They make everything among themselves,

and the clothing is very sufficient and comfortable.

All classes are employed, some occupation being found

even for the children, who receive a good common

education at schools established in the colony. A

circulating library has been formed, and any of the

cottagers are at liberty to take the books to their own

houses. To these settlements are attached plain places
of worship for both Protestants and Roman Catholics,
with dwelling-houses for their clergymen. Their

salaries are paid by the government; there are no tithes;

and the society's lands and property are exempted
from taxes of every kind. No ale-house is permitted
in the colony. When it was first founded, drunken

ness was very common ; but now it is extremely rare,
and not a single instance of theft has been known since

its commencement."

    " Whatever," says Mr. Allen, " may be the ultimate
result of this experiment, a large tract of country has
been reclaimed from the desert, and the situation of
thousands of paupers greatly improved. The habits
of industry which are gained, and the education which
is given, will, no doubt, have a great effect upon the
next generation, and Holland will have set an example
of relieving her people from the greatest burden which
can be imposed on their industry, -- that of maintain
ing, in confirmed habits of idleness and vice, thousands
422  INTERVIEW WITH DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE. [1832

of huir.an beings who were capable of useful labor. I
thought, as I rode along, that our government in

England might do much for Ireland by something
resembling Frederick's Oord, only with better arrange

ments on some points."
    Hence they proceeded through Arnheim and Elber-

feld to Dusseldorf. The face of the country, on leaving

Dusseldorf, was entirely changed ; hills, fine prospects,

and good roads, succeeded to the monotonous flats

and canals of Holland. A great number of single cot

tages were scattered about in all directions at Bielefield,
surrounded by little plots of corn, flax, and potatoes.

To Mr. Allen it seemed like " Lindfield on a great

scale." On arriving at Pyrmont and Minden, the
scenes of their former labors, they paid religious visits
to the families in those neighborhoods, and preached
the gospel of peace and salvation through Jesus Christ
our Lord, to those who met for worship, not without
testimonies of Divine approbation. Their road to
Eidenhausen lay in a southerly direction, towards an
opening between wooded hills, called the Gate of

Westphalia, through which the river Weser runs. All

the children of Friends at Eidenhausen can read the
Bible; " But," says Mr. Allen, "there is a wide field

here for useful exertion, even in the things which
appertain to the life that now is ; and, indeed, they

have no inconsiderable bearing upon what relates to

that which is to come."

   On the 1 3th of August they proceeded to Hanover;
and the next day had an audience with the Duke of
Cambridge, who received them with much kindness.
They explained to him the objects of their journey,
1832.]  ARRIVES AT BERLIN.  423

which he highly approved, and after a lengthened
conversation on the subjects of religious liberty, negro
slavery, and the condition of the agricultural poor,

they took their leave, thankful for "a very satisfactory

interview."

   On the 1 5th they entered Brunswick, which Mr.
Allen describes as "a far pleasantcr and cleaner town
than Hanover. Our landlord was delighted to find
that Stephen was a Frenchman, and born very near
his own native place-- that they were nearly of the

same age, and had both been in the royalist army at
the time of the Revolution. He took us to see the
delightful public walks by the side of the river Ochir."

    On the I 7th they entered the important and strongly

fortified city of Magdeburg. It seemed almost filled
with soldiers. They took a walk in the evening, and

remarked that they met with no incivility as they
passed along the populous streets. The road from

Magdeburg to Berlin is ornamented with a row of
trees on each side, the most of them fruit trees. The

soil is poor, and rendered worse by wretched farming.
There are extensive heaths, with hundreds of miserable

sheep upon them, and we have seen great tracts of
land without any signs of cottages, with poor crops of

oats, barley, etc. ; the things seem absolutely starved
for want of manure.

   " On the morning of the i8th we arrived at Berlin,

the finest city in Europe that we have seen, containing
two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. The

streets are generally broad, and the houses good;
nothing seems wanting in it but underground sewers
424  KOPF'S INSTITUTION.                            [1832.

and flag-stones for the footways; the Spree runs

through the city."

   The Sabbath evening was spent with Pastor Gosner,
in company with some religious persons of his

acquaintance, in worship and serious conversation.

A few extracts from Mr. Allen's diary will show some

of his occupations in this  beautiful city.         which
   " Dr. Julius took us to
                            see Kopfs institution,

is a school of reform for juvenile criminals, situated

just without the gates of the city; there are three
acres of land attached to and the boys are employed
                            is it,
                                     is

                                                                is
both in agriculture and gardening; they also make

iron screws and obtain a considerable revenue from

this branch of industry. A certain portion of the

profits of the children's labor reserved for them to

receive when they leave the institution. There are at
present sixty-one boys. A regular account
                                                                    kept

of their conduct, and each distinguished by a number

and a letter, instead of being reported by name, in

order that no stigma may attach to his character.
Many of the boys who have been here are now

respectable and useful members of the community.

The asylum has been established seven years during
                            ;
that period the failures have only amounted to thirteen
                                          a
per cent., or, in other words, eighty-seven per cent,

have been reclaimed. What an encouragement to

Christian exertion; the director, Kopf, scems to be

man well adapted to the care of such an establishment.
The children are taught reading, writing, arithmetic,

and geography; but above all, they are instructed

with great care in their duty to God and man, and in

a knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. We were present
1832.]  VISITS SCHOOLS.  425

at their evening exercises, when Stephen addressed
them, and Dr. Julius interpreted. We then saw them
at supper, where everything was nicely conducted, and

very clean and comfortable; the sleeping apartments

were also thoroughly clean and in excellent order.
In an adjoining building thirty girls are under the care
of the director's wife. This institution is one of the

most gratifying works of benevolence I have ever

wit"ne2sjsde.d--. Dr. Julius accompanied us to the schools
for the poor. In the course of the year 1831, eight

thousand one hundred and forty-three poor children
had been receiving instruction at the expense of the city
of Berlin, without any cost to their parents or friends.
There is a law in Prussia to compel parents to have

their children taught reading, writing, etc., as soon as

they are seven years old. Every child who has lost

both its parents, has a curator appointed by govern

ment, and those curators are bound to give a public

account of the fulfilment of their office.
   "We went to dine with Major von Rudloff, the

King's Minister of War. C. Semler was there, and
several who are active in prisons and public institu

tions. I have seldom seen such hospitality as on this

occasion, it extended even to profusion ; but we must

take persons in their own way, and here, though their

exterior was very different from ours, were some of
the excellent of the earth. Their sentiments upon
many of the subjects of conversation were in unison

with our own, and during the whole time my mind

was covered with a degree of holy solemnity which I

endeavored to keep under. Before we left the table,
42l>  INTERVIEW WITH THE CROWN PRINCE.                [1832.

Stephen knelt down in supplication, and prayed for

the King and government. It was, I believe, gener

ally felt to be a solemn time. We then retired to

another room and had coffee."

They obtained an interview with Prince Wittgen

stein, a nobleman much respected by the King, who

the next day paid them a visit in full dress, and was

very affable.  He made     a"nGraapnpdoinMtmalternet  for them to
be with Baron   Ichilder,                             de la Coitr,''

at ten o'clock on the morrow, and with the Crown

Princess at eleven. By these two excellent ministers

of state they were received as Christian brethren.

They freely represented to them the persecutions at

Barmen, and pleaded for liberty of conscience, assert
ing that " the government ought never to interfere

with the manner in which a man thought it his duty

to worship his God, because no one could answer for

him before the divine tribunal." In the interview with

the Crown Princess, the Crown Prince soon came and
joined them. " He has a sensible countenance, and

though he preserved his own dignity, spoke in a very

affable and engaging manner. We mentioned the
objects of our journey -- told him how much we were

pleased with the attention paid to the education of the
poor in Berlin -- explained the British system of in

struction, and gave him a Manual." They then vindi
cated religious liberty -- adverted to the abolition of

the Test and Corporation Acts in England, and detailed

the imprisonment and martyrdom of Friends under

Cromwell and Charles II. Both the Prince and

Princess evinced much kindness and liberal feeling,
and a great deal of general information. " Towards
1832.]  BENEFIT OF A RELIGIOUS TRACT.  427

the conclusion, Stephen was engaged in supplication ;
there was a precious feeling of solemnity, and we
parted under the influence of it. The Prince expressed
much satisfaction with the interview, shook us cor

dially by the hand, and said he should be glad to see
us whenever we might hereafter come to Berlin. He

gives a striking proof of his regard to religion, by

keeping those about his person who are remarkable

for their attachment to its cause."

   One of the evenings of his stay Mr. Allen spent

with the excellent Samuel Elsner, " a very useful man,

full of energy, and Secretary to the Religious Tract
Society of Berlin." On this occasion Mr. Allen

remarks : --
   " Elsner was very animated, and gave us some inter

esting anecdotes of tract distributors. One pious
man, the Master of the Forests, employed three hun

dred persons to distribute them in different parts of
Germany, and also distributed them himself. On one

occasion, he offered some to a blacksmith, who at first

refused them in a very surly manner; he pleaded with
him, and the man at length lifted up his hammer, and
threatened to knock him down. The good man then

went on his way; but in a little time, the blacksmith

called him back, took the tracts, read them, was after

wards converted, and died a pious Christian. The
King allows all the publications of the Tract Society

at Berlin to be sent postage free, throughout his

dominions."

   Hoping to impress the mind of Baron D'Altenstein,
the Minister de Culte, with the national advantages of
religious freedom, they went to Shoenberg, with an in-
428  VISITS DR. THOLUCK AT HALLE.  [1832.

troduction from Prince Wittgenstein. Their great sub .
ject was the loss which the state sustained in the case of
the Mennonitcs, who, in consequence of their scruple
to bear arms, were obliged to emigrate. Their repre
sentations were favourably received, and the minister

expressed his "anxiety that public instruction should
not be merely confined to secular knowledge, however

desirable that might be in itself, but that it should be
founded upon religious principles." After another

lengthened conference with Prince Wittgenstein, he
took leave of the Countess Groben, who, with her

husband and family, afforded an example of piety
rarely to be met with in the members of a court.

They left Berlin amidst the regrets of all who had

conversed with them, and arrived at Wittenburg on

the 28th of August, where they visited the old monas
tery in which Luther had lived, and the fine statue of

the great Reformer in the market p'ace. Crossing the
Elbe by a long bridge, they entered Halle, a town .
wearing the appearance of great antiquity, and famous

for its University and Orphan-house. Professor
Tholuck received them with cordiality and great sim
plicity, and gave them interesting information of the

state of religion. It appears that the spirit of infidelity

 lamentably prevails. Tholuck said that at one time

 he had himself imbibed those principles, but he was

 convinced of the truths of Christianity, by residing
 for some time in the house of an excellent man, who,

 though he used no arguments with him, yet by his

 life and conversation, was the means, under the divine
 blessing, of effecting his conversion."

    Dr. Schwcigen, a lecturer on chemistry, accom-
1832.]  FRANCKE'S ORPHAN SCHOOL.  429

panied them to see the Orphan House established by

Augustus Hermann Francke, a Moravian. It appears

Francke was born at Lubeck in 1663. ^e was ear'y
the subject of · religious impressions. In his tenth

year he asked his mother for a little room where he

might study and pray without interruption. Evil ex

ample somewhat blunted the tenderness of his feelings ;

but  when at Leipsic   in his  2s4otchieytye,arh, esusraryosu,n"deGdodwitihn
the  temptations of   worldly

his mercy sent his Spirit to lead me away from every

earthly good, and inclined me to humble myself

before him, and to pray for grace to serve him in new
ness of life." Distressed with a sense of his sins,

and anxious for that faith in Christ which brings

peace, he one day knelt down, and in anguish of soul
uttered the petition, " O God, if thou be God, manifest
thyself to me ! " To his inexpressible comfort his

doubts were dispelled, and he arose from his knees

with a feeling of peace of which no words could
convey an idea. In 1691, he was appointed professor
of Greek and Oriental languages in the new University
of Halle. In 1695, he put up a box in his study,
and wrote under it this inscription :-- " Whoso hath-

this world's goods, and seeth his brother have need,

and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him,
how dwelleth the love of God in him ? " Trifles were

from time to time deposited, and in about three

months a very rich lady put in seven florins : when

Francke took this in his hand, he exclaimed -- " This

is a noble capital ! something appropriate must be

founded with it-- I will begin a school for the poor."

His benevolent resolution was immediately put in
430  THE GRAND DUCHESS OF WEIMAR.  [1832.

practice ; the same day he purchased books, appointed
a poor student to instruct the children, and promised
him a remuneration. The fame of this extraordinary

man's exertions for the public good extended far.
Presents of clothing for the children as well as money,
were sent to him -- his plans were extended -- his

funds, though often very low, were again and again

replenished, and the idea was suggested to his mind
of supporting some poor students by benevolent con

tributions. It occurred to him that, in the informa
tion of mind and character, much more might be
accomplished if the children were not only to re

ceive daily instruction, but be entirely brought up
and educated. This was the origin of his resolu

tion to found an orphan asylum, though he was not in
the possession of the smallest capital for his purpose.

He began in the year 1695, with four; some benevo
lent persons offered to be at the expense of another,

and a fifth was soon found; for several days suc

cessively the number increased, and at length, in
the year 1697, the foundation stone was laid of those
extensive buildings in which, since that period, many
thousands of different classes have received a useful

and liberal education.

    He died in 1727, after devoting himself to his favor

ite establishment for thirty-three years.
   Mr. Allen addressed the students, the benefici;:!

effects of which he learned two years after. Th-j

travellers entered Weimar, visited the public institu

tions, and were exceedingly gratified with the attention
paid to the education of all ranks of the people. The

Grand Duchess, the sister of the late Emperor Alex-
1832.] INTERVIEW WITH THE GRAND DUCHESS.  431

ander of Russia, who had been early trained to habits
of benevolence and piety, by her mother, the late
Empress Dowager, invited them to an interview.

    " We were ushered into an ante-chamber, and from

thence were conducted into the apartment in which
she was standing by one of her ladies ; she is an

agreeable-looking person, and we were soon engaged
in free conversation. -The hereditary Prince Charles,

her only surviving son, came into the room, and she

introduced him to us. She made particular inquiry
respecting what we had seen, and seemed much

interested in the subject of my colonies at home. It

is very remarkable, that in conversing upon these plans
for the poor, she made use of the same language which
her brother, the Emperor Alexander, had applied in
reference to the Scripture Lessons, viz., ' Surely Divine
Providence has sent you to do this for us.' The longer
we staid, the more interested the Duchess seemed in

the convei sation ; she requested to see us again, and
wished us to dine with her in the country to-morrow.

We begged to decline the invitation to dinner, but
were desirous of being allowed another interview,

feeling our minds drawn towards her in Christian
solicitude.

   " In the evening of the 1st, Dr. Froriep called, and
took us to the palace at Belvidere, where we had been
invited to take tea ; it is a beautiful place ; we walked
about the garden, in which there is a rich collection
of foreign plants, and then went to the Grand Duchess,
who received us very kindly. An opportunity for
introducing religious subjects was our great object ;
this was had, much to our satisfaction, and we were
432  FORMS SCRI1TURE LESSONS IN GERMAN. [1832.

rejoiced to find that such topics were most acceptable

to her. She seemed reluctant to part with us, and said
she should always be glad to see us at Weimar. We

were comforted in this day's work, and on returning
to our hotel, proceeded with pasting the Scripture
Lessons, which we worked at till midnight."

   On the 3d, half the Scripture Lessons being com
pleted in German, they were forwarded to Elsner of
Berlin. In the afternoon they passed the village of
Lutzen, remarkable as the spot where Gustavus
Adolphus of Sweden gained a victory over the Aus-
trians, but lost his life, and where Napoleon defeated
the combined forces of Russia and Prussia. On the
3d they arrived at Leipsic. Mr. Allen says, "the next

day Stephen and I were intensely engaged writing

German Scripture Lessons, and finished them at night,

but I was too much tired."

   Providence threw in their way several persons of
influence, who took an interest in the objects of their

journey. At that time the contagion of infidelity

spread extensively in the University, and efforts were
made publicly to counteract the effects of all evan

gelical preaching; but a little company met at Dr.
Linder's, who were not ashamed to confess Christ
before men, with whom Mr. Allen had sweet inter

course.

   " Ninth Month 6th. -- We passed through the market

this morning, which was crowded, being market day.

Deep red and blue are the prevailing colors in the
dress of the country people, and strike the eye in
every group of figures. Under the clock, in the great
square, is a large ball to represent the moon, one part
1832.]  INTERVIEW WITH COUNT COLLEREDO.  433

is gilt, and the other black ; at new moon the black
side is exhibited, then a little of the gilding, which is

gradually increased until the full moon, when the
whole of the gilded side appears. Thus the country
people are shown what they have to expect from this

luminary, on returning home.
   " Persons seem struck with seeing us travelling

without any object of self gratification, but merely
with a view to promote the good of others."

   While at Dresden, the Minister of State, Count von

Lindeman, procured for them an interview with Count
Colleredo, the Austrian Minister, who gave them a

letter to the Governor of Prague. Prince Frederick,

the heir apparent, received them with much affability.
He said that his younger brother, Prince John, inter

ested himself very much about benevolent societies,

and that he was now busy in forming a temperance
society. In the evening Prince John sent for them:
they furnished him with rules for temperance societies,

and had lengthened and important conversation with

him on topics of national and personal interest.

  "In the afternoon," says Mr. Allen, "we went to

the Orphan House, where from sixty to eighty persons
were present, but our friend who had agreed to inter

pret for us was not to be found. However, our Great

Master, as I humbly believe, provided for us in the

needful time. Stephen informed the company in
French how we were circumstanced, and requested
that some person would be so obliging as to interpret

what might be communicated. A lady beyond middle

age, having the air and manner of a person who had

been highly educated, kindly came forward; it was
434  THE BARONESS DRECI1SEL.  [1^32.

the Baroness Drechsel of Silesia, a well-known relig
ious character, who, in addition to her own language,
could speak French and English. There was a sweet

pause, and Stephen then rose and spoke for a con
siderable time in French. The Baroness stood by
him, and interpreted sentence by sentence into German
very faithfully, and with great feeling. The people
were as quiet and attentive as in a meeting of Friends.
After he sat down, Dr. Leonard), a tender-spirited

pastor, rose and expressed a few sentences in German,
which the Baroness interpreted into French. There

was again a pause, and feeling much for the people, I

was led to address them in English, the Baroness

interpreting for nve into German. Before the meeting

concluded, Stephen was engaged in prayer, which was
not interpreted. The solemnity which prevailed in
this meeting was remarkably striking. The Baroness
seemed much impressed, and the hearts of many were
brought into tenderness. Pastor Leonard! mentioned

the gratitude he felt that the gospel had been thus
preached, and expressed a hope that the impression
then made would long continue."

   The Baroness retained a warm and grateful remem
brance of the impressions received at this meeting.
In a letter dated 2d January, 1837, she says :

   " Yesterday we began a new year. My wishes for

you reached to heaven, that, for the benefits done to
your fellow creatures, our Heavenly Father may .spread
his blessings upon you, your house, and all that belong

to you. Keep me in your remembrance, -- in your

friendship. If God should grant me life and health, I

purpose to go for some weeks to England. How
1832.]  THE MORAVIANS AT HERRNHUT.  435

happy should I be to converse with you, to tell you

all my feelings, all my gratitude, all the esteem and

regard, with which I am, dear Sir,

      " Your faithful friend and obedient servant,

                                                       " B. DRECHSEL."

   From Leipsic the travellers proceeded to the Mo
ravian settlement at Herrnhut, which Mr. Allen thus
describes :--

   " Herrnhut is a regular town. Every house in it
belongs to the Moravians, and the total number of in
habitants is estimated at about one thousand. An air
of tranquillity and peace reigns throughout, and dis
tinguishes it from any other place which I have ever
before visited. The plainness, neatness, Christian
simplicity, and sweetness of manner, observable in
many of the females, afforded a gratifying proof of their
being under the influence of the spirit of their Divine
Master. We had much edifying conversation with
several of the members of this community."

   The entered Prague on the i7th, and after inspect

ing its prisons and public educational establishments,
returned to their hotel, where they had the gratifica
tion to find the head waiter in their room, reading a
French Bible. Mr. Allen gave him a German copy,
for which he was exceedingly thankful, and kissed his

hand with delight. They reached Vienna about sun

rise on the i Qth, and went immediately to Prince
Esterhazy, who received them most cordially, and
wished them to visit his estates at Eisenstadt in Hun

gary. He pointed out, on the map, where the nearest
is situated, assuring them that it was not farther than
436  VISITS PRINCE ESTERHAZY'S  [1832.

Brighton from London, and that he would send them
to his chateau in his carriage. They started a little

after eight the next morning with splendid horses.

Orders had been previously sent to the post stations

to furnish post horses free, there and back. Between
twelve and one they reached the palace, which is a mass
of building on a commanding eminence at the foot of
the Carpathian mountains, and contains one hundred

and six apartments.
   " Great attention," says Mr. Allen, " was shown to

us, and we were very hospitably entertained. After din
ner a carriage was in readiness to take us round the
grounds, and to some of the neighboring villages.
The servants seemed to have had their orders, and we

were accompanied by the head gardener, a nice intelli
gent, young man, who spoke French well. There are
three distinct sets of people in these parts besides Jews,
viz., Hungarians, Croatians and Germans. Nearly one-
half of the Hungarians are Protestants, and are

permitted the free exercise of their religion. The
Croatians are Roman Catholics. The villages of

Osliph and Gresch are inhabited by Croats ; they have
long hair, and wear large broad-brimmed hats, with

low crowns. I was not satisfied with merely an ex

ternal view of their dwellings, so we stopped and went

into some of their houses, which, I suppose on account

of the cholera, have been recently whitewashed, both

within and without; they stand in rows on each side
of a wide road; the gable ends, with two windows in

them, are uniformly placed towards the road ; the walls
are thick, and of stones and mud plastered; the upper
part is often of wood, and the covering is of thatch.
1832.] ESTATES AT EISENSTADT IN HUNGARY.  437

The peasants are all required to keep their cottages in

repair. There are four different classes of them, and
they all cultivate their land ; each of the first class has
fifty acres, those of the second class have twenty-five
acres, of the third, four acres, and of the fourth class

two acres. A man of the third class, invited us into

his house: the kitchen is a kind of recess, without a
window; the smoke is carried off by an open chimney.
There was one large room, in which the whole of the

family live and sleep ; in this there was a four-post

bedstead, with a good bed, curtains, etc., and a smaller

bed, without hangings, for the children ; they each had
quilted coverlets made by the mistress of the house,
and there was an appearance of neatness and comfort
in this apartment. The peasant informed us that half
his land was m vineyards, and half arable ; he possessed

two oxen, a cow, and a pig. There is a certain sum

levied upon every family, whether there are children
or not, for the support of the schools ; a tax is also

paid to the Emperor, to the Prince, and to the Priest;

and after all the requisitions are complied with, the
peasant says he has only about one-fifth of the crops
for himself. The population of Hungary is estimated

nt eight millions, and during the last eighteen months,

one million are said to have died of cholera. It ceased
only in the forepart of this month. It is not a little

remarkable, in looking back, to see how exactly at the

right time we seem to have undertaken this journey.
The property of Prince Esterhazy, in Hungary, is im
mense ; he derives a revenue from above eight hundred

thousand peasants. Some of the villages which we

passed are inhabited by Germans.
438        DIVINE LOVE.                               [1832.

   "The Lutheran pastor thinks that, speaking in
general terms, all the children of fourteen years can
read, and he considers the state of morals better in

Hungary than in Germany. With regard to the agri

cultural population, he says that there is an astonishing

diversity in different parts, but there is not so much

oppression in the interior, as in those parts bordering
upon Turkey ; he does not think that Socinian prin
ciples have made their way here. We came back to

Eisenstadt to dinner, and reached Vienna in the

evening."

   On the 25th they saw the Prince, and made their
report of the improvements he might make with re
gard to the cultivation of the land, and in ameliorating
the condition of the peasantry, and conversed upon
several subjects of importance. He freely acknowl

edged his sense of the responsibility of the trust com

mitted to him, that it was his earnest desire to promote

the welfare of the people, and that if his life were

spared, he fully intended, in two or three years, to
take leave of politics, at least of the active part he had

taken in them for the last seventeen years, and devote
his time and attention to improving the condition of

the   peasantry in Hungary.    and  I  took  a  walk  on  the
      In the evening, Stephen
   "

outskirts of the city, by the ramparts. The sky was a

beautiful blue, very different from what we see in En

gland. The trees and walks, palaces and public build

ings, are very fine ! I felt a melancholy pleasure in

pacing along the interior square of the palace, where

I had the interview with the dear Emperor Alexander,

in 1822. As we walked along, engaged in serious
1832.1  THE BOG OF THE DANUBE.  439

conversation, Stephen expressed his belief, that, after

all my trials, my sun would yet go down in brightness.
O, that it may be so ! I can appeal to my Lord and
Master, in the language of Peter, ' Lord, thou knowest

that I love thee,' and I love thy cause, however

conscious I maybe of my shortcomings, and that I am
indeed an unprofitable servant. O that I may be re
ceived within the gates of that city which hath founda

tions, whose builder and maker is God !"

   After travelling above three hundred miles, without
stopping to rest, they reached Munich on the apth of
September, and found the King of Bavaria absent at

Aschaffenbcrg, but Prince Oettingen Wallerstein, the
Minister of the Interior, who had heard of their arrival

from Dr. R ingseis, sent a message for them to call and
see him. The state of the poor was the chief subject,
and opened the way for Mr. Allen to explain the plan
of his rural colonies. He was exceedingly anxious

that the)' should visit the colonies on the Donaumoos,
between Ingolstatlt and Neuberg, where a great ex
periment was then in progress, under the direction of

the Bavarian government. They assented, anrf the

Prince appointed Joseph de Baaden to accompany

them as interpreter. Mr. Allen says: -- "The Donau
moos, or the Bog of the Danube, is an extensive plain

stretching nearly from Neuberg to Ingolstadt. There
are several villages, containing a population of about
three thousand. Complete liberty of conscience is
allowed ; a striking contrast to Austria, where bigotry
and superstition reign. Many of the inhabitants are
Protestants, and the village of Maxwciler is a small
but very interesting settlement of Mennonites. We
440  DIVINE WORSHIP.  [1832.

requested they would assemble in one of their houses,
in order that we might have a season of Divine wor
ship together. It was remarkable how soon they were
collected. De Baader interpreted what was addressed

to them, and he did it beautifully ; this was a most
satisfactory opportunity. We distributed a number of

tracts, which were gratefully received, both in this and
other villages,-- indeed they were eagerly sought for.
The cottages of the Mennonites, the excellent culture
of their land, their cleanliness, and manners altogether,
are much superior to the generality of the colonists,
but none of them appear to have a regular system of
cultivating their land, and there are scarcely any gar

dens throughout the colony. \.oads have been made,
and canals cut in every direction. There are schools

in the different villages, and the children appear to be-
generally tauyht to read. We understand that the
colony is furnished with Bibles from the Bible Society.
The people greatly need improvement in habits of

cleanliness; and I think if the women could be em
ployed within doors, instead of working out in the

fields, it would be a great benefit ; they almost univer

sally go without shoes and stockings, as well as the
children. I was tired when we returned to the inn,

but very thankful for this memorable day.
   " Some of the poor people came all the way from

the colony the next morning to beg for more tracts ;

they told us that after we were gone, the cottagers

assembled in groups to hear them read, and that

several were affected to tears. One person was very
anxious to induce the possessor of a tract to let him
1832.]  LETTER FROM THE COLONISTS.                                           441

have but the man replied that he would not part
it, it,

         if

                                                                         aa
with even any one were to give him two dollars."

After this deeply interesting visit, ]Vfr. Allen wrote

to Prince Wallenstein, and suggested the importance

of letting the poor people have gardens and of fur

nishing them with fruit trees, and several other plans

of economical and social advantage.

On Mr. Allen's return home, he forwarded number

of books and tracts to the colonists of the Donau-

moos, together with various kinds of seeds, suited to

their soil and climate. An extract from                                      letter

written nearly two years after the above visit was paid,

shows with what lively feelings the colonists recurred

to this memorable occasion.

" Maxwciler, yd of Ninth MontJi (September,) 1834.

" DEAR  RIENDS, AND MUCH HONORED BRETHREN w
        r7

                ;
                                           ;

                                                               ;

                                      it
                                                    it
JESUS CHRIST, WM. ALLEN AND STEPHEN GRELLET.

" We well remember the kind visit which you paid

us in christian love, the 1oth of October, 1832, in our

little colony of Maxweiler   was at an unexpected

time, yet we cannot but believe, that                             was the Lord

Jesus who, in his infinite love, sent such dear friends
to us to increase our love to God, and our faith in

the Saviour we doubt not your words were dictated

by the Holy Spirit they flowed from your lips in

love, and under this feeling they penetrated our hearts.

Since that time we have very often spoken of you, and

thought of the fatigue and difficulties you encountered

in your journey to seek out Christians, and exhort
them to love and have faith in the Saviour. Yes -- we
442  VISITS THE KING AT STUTTGARD.  [1832.

desire to be often visited by such friends, and to be con

firmed in the Christian faith, but, as we cannot enjoy

that advantage, may we be united in spirit, and when
we have finished our short pilgrimage here, may our
Lord, through his Divine grace, grant eternal felicity
to you and us, that we may rejoice together without
interruption, and without end ! Yes, Lord Jesus may
it be so ! Amen."

   After some information on the colony, and the
strongest expressions of gratitude, the letter concludes
with the signatures of the minister and two other

per"soAnts.Stuttgard," Mr. Allen says, " the King was not

at home, but we had an interview with the Queen,

who received us very cordially, and conversed very
freely with us, as with Christian brethren. There was

Ia sweet solemnity over us, and Stephen and were

both engaged in communicating counsel and encour
agement. She evinced much religious sensibility, and

on our taking leave, when I exhorted her to holdfast,

she replied that she hoped she should, and begged us
to pray for her. Her two daughters were with her,
the younger about six years old. We afterwards re
ceived a note from the Queen, expressive of much
christian feeling.

   "The next day the King having returned to Stutt

gard, we received a note, appointing us to meet him

at twelve o'clock ; we accordingly attended at the
palace at the time proposed, and were very kindly
received. We had much satisfactory conversation,

particularly on religious subjects, and, on taking leave,
he parted with us very affectionately."
1832.]  RETURNS TO LONDON.  443

    Mere the beloved friends separated, Stephen Grellet
going towards Switzerland, and Mr. Allen returning

by the Rhine to London. " I had," he observes, " a

peaceful retrospect of our labors during our late

journey, in which I have travelled about three thou

sand miles and was favored to reach home in safety

oa the 2 ist. I met with a joyfi'l reception, and, in

humble gratitude, can set up my Ebenezer."
           CHAPTER XVII.

           VISIT TO SPAIN.

   THE duties which Mr. Allen imposed on himself
became increasingly heavy, in consequence of the
new channels of usefulness his journeys on the Conti

nent were continually opening. Lord Brougham gave
him the advantage of enclosing any packages to

foreign courts in the ambassadors' bags, which facili

tated his communications, but increased his labor.

He was not, however, content with correspondence.
His successes with kings and foreign ministers in in

troducing benevolent and useful plans to their notice

had been so great that he became restless at home,
and anxious, at any sacrifice of domestic comfort, to

visit sovereigns he had not yet seen, and confirm the"

good operations which he had commenced in those

places to which his counsels and labors had been pre
viously given. In the beginning of the year 1833, a

desire to rejoin Stephen Grellet so pressed on his
mind that he felt bound to obey it. His wife felt

deeply this separation after so short a stay at Newing-
                                     up. " My heart was heavy,"
ton,  but  fArelelelyn,ga"vien  him  prospect of parting with my
says  Mr.                       the

beloved wife ; but I firmly believe that He who gave

her to me has made it my duty again to leave her for

a season." Lord John Russell was very averse to his

                                     (444)
1833.]  LETTER FROM THOMAS CLARKSON.  445

venturing at this period into Spain, but gave him a
letter to the Ambassador at Madrid. " Humble de

pendence, prudence, and circumspection," he observes,
" must be our watchword."

   Just before he started he received the following
touching letter from his old and valued friend Mr.
Thomas Clarkson : --

                             " Playford, January i8th,
       " DEAR WILLIAM ALLEN.

  " You know, when I was in London last, that two

cataracts had been formed on my eyes ; they have

continued increasing and obscuring my sight since

that time. About fourteen days ago, I lost all power
of reading, which has greatly abridged my former
comforts, and since then the power of seeing to write,--
that is, I can scarcely see where or how to direct my

pen, and this has become so alarmingly the case in

the last two days, that I doubt whether this very let

ter, which I am now trying to write to you, will not

be the last that I shall ever write, unless my eyes

should be relieved by an operation ; and believing that

this may possibly be the last ac/that I may be capable
of performing in the way of writing, I feel it near my

heart to dedicate it to you, and to declare tjiereby the

unfeigned love and affection which I have borne for
you unceasingly, from the first of our acquaintance to

this very hour, and that these feelings cannot be done
away so long as my life and memory remain. We
have, dear William Allen, labored together in some
of the most interesting subjects that can engage the
 mind of man, and have advanced them in their way
446  TAKES DISPATCHES FOR GOVERNMENT.  [1833.

to a happy issue, as far as we could have reason to
expect, considering the ignorance and prejudices of

men; and I am sure that the recollection of these

labors, in conjunction with you, will often bring you

Ito my mind, and create pleasure while am living in

the world of darkness. And here let me observe,

that though I may be destined to live in a world

where all earthly objects are invisible to me, you are

not to bemoan my situation--it may be good for me --

good for my eternal interests, and better than I could
have devised for myself. But I feel that I must con
clude on account of my eyes. I fear that this will be
a very unconnected letter, as I have no means of read
ing what I write.

  " I remain, dear William Allen, with the greatest

regard, yours most affectionately,
                                               " THOMAS CLARKSON."

   The operation of which Mr. Clarkson speaks was

after some time performed, and his sight was so far

restored as to enable him to pursue those active labors
in the cause of philanthropy for which he had been so

long distinguished.
   Mr. Allen arrived at Meurice's Hotel, in Paris, on

the 2$th of January. Government having furnished
him with a leathern bag containing despatches, his
journey was in consequence greatly facilitated, of
which a few singular instances occurred. Their first
journey was to Bordeaux, a distance of 390 miles,
which was accomplished in somewhat less than forty-
eight hours. " We crossed the Garonne," he says,
" over a splendid stone bridge, which has been con-
1833.]  A LONG CONFERENCE.  447

Istructed since was last here. When Bonaparte was

in this city, he remarked that it was a great pity there
was no bridge in this place ; he was told that it was
impossible to erect one, in consequence of the depth
and rapidity of the river ; he replied, ' Nothlng is im
possible.' Plans were instantly ordered, and the

bridge was begun in a few days."
   In the evening of February 2d, he set out in the

mail for Bayonne.
   " We reached Bayonne about seven o'clock the

following evening; when the carriage stopped, dear
S. Grellet was at the door ready to welcome me, and
we were rejoiced to meet. The houses at Bayonne
are high, the streets narrow, and in some parts the

footway is under the houses, as at Berne, in Switzer

land, and Chester, in our own country."
    Being obliged to stay here a fortnight, they en

deavored to discover openings for usefulness, and
became acquainted with several public spirited indi
viduals. On the sth they met at the office of the

prefect, almost all the public authorities --the mayor,

the generals, the prefect, the secretary, and the mem

bers of different commissions --about twenty or thirty
persons. After a long conference about the state of

the poor, which are very numerous in Bayonne, and
the best means of relieving them, the mayor under
took to form a provisional committee, which was to

prepare a plan, and submit it to a future meeting.
Mr. Allen worked out this plan ; it was adopted by

the meeting, and " La Societ£ de Bienfaisance de Bay

onne " was formed.

    On the 1oth they departed for Irun, the first town
448  ENTERS SPAIN.  [1833.

in Spain. " The road," says Mr. Allen, " was good,
but hilly; the people appear well dressed, and the
houses in general are far superior to those north of
Bayonne. Showy colors prevail in the dress of the

females. At Bchabie, on the borders of Spain, there

is a little river with a bridge over it ; on the middle
of the bridge are palisades and a gate, this is the

boundery between France and Spain, and we stopped

at an inn close to the bridge, where we were met by

gend'-armes, douaniers, etc., but producing the letters
kindly given to us by the sub-prefect, our things were
not examined at all on the French side. After much

consultation we learnt that we could not go forward
at once, but must pass six days in the lazaretto, and
that it will not be open for the reception of any per

sons until to-morrow. It is no wonder that different

accounts are given of this lazaretto, for we find that it
just like many other prisons ; those who can pay for

a good bed have it ; those who cannot, must go into
something like a great barn, and lie upon straw. We
walked backwards and forwards for exercise, in our

narrow limits, a monotonous sort of life, and complete
imprisonment. The weather is so mild that we have

no fire.

   " i6th. --Our quarantine being ended to-day, we
engagea seats in the diligence to Madrid. The vege
tation is luxuriant in this climate--peas five or six
inches high ; a great deal of Indian corn, and very
fine crops of flax. Our road winding amongst the

Pyrenees, was continually ascending and descending,
and the number of animals drawing the carriage varied
from seven to ten; generally horses and mules, but on
1833.]  DESCRIBES THE BASQUES.               449

one occasion we had the addition of four oxen. After

resting part of the night, we proceeded by the light of

a lantern, which showed us rugged rocks, amongst
which we heard the rushing of the mountain torrents.

Our carriage was stuck fast before daylight, and two

of the mules were placed behind to alter its position,

which was at length effected, but these roads are dan

gerous in the dark.

   "The inhabitants of Biscay are a peculiar race,

called Basques ; they have a language of their own,

and, in some respects, a distinct government, though

subject to Spain, and their republic, for such it resem

bles, extends nearly to Vittoria. Every native Biscayan

is a hidalgo, or noble by birth. I never saw such

miserable houses, in a civilized country, as we passed

to-day. The streets of Vittoria are about as narrow

as those of Constantinople. We stopped at the doua-

nier, where the people are proverbially vexatious, and

they would not let my medicine box pass; we there

fore committed it to the care of a merchant to whom

we had been recommended from Bayonne, and he

kindly undertook to pay the demand which might be

made upon and forward to Madrid."
   " In the afternoon of the 18th, we came to Burgos,
        it,

                      it
                               is it
                                         it
a very large place, containing several fine public build

ings; but We did not alight. There were hundreds

of persons walking backwards and forwards, in the

streets, and some with masks on, being the time of

carnival. The population  estimated at fourteen

thousand, of which is considered that about six

thousand consist of priests, monks and nuns. The

danger from banditti so much increases as we approach
450  ARRIVES AT MADRID  [1833.

nearer to Madrid, that we are not to start to morrow

till break of day."
   " 2oth.-- We passed high craggy rocks by the side

of the road, and behind these huge masses the robbers
take their stand. It is just the place for banditti.
There are many old round towers on the hills. This

morning we saw olive trees for the first time. The
plough used here is of the rudest construction, like

that of the Greeks and Romans. At half past one we
entered the gates of Madrid. An armed man, on

horseback, was waiting to see that nothing was taken
from the diligence before it had been to the post house.

An elderly gentleman, one of the passengers, who spoke

French and Spanish, rendered us much assistance,

and our luggage was passed without any difficulty. I

believe the despatches have been of great use to us."
   On the 2 ist, Mr. Addington, the English Ambassa

dor, introduced them to Count d'Ofalia, who gained

permission from the King for them to see all the public
institutions of Madrid. He stated the peculiar diffi
culties that existed in Spain, in consequence of most
of the benevolent institutions being in the hands of

the clergy, though less so in Madrid than in Spain
generally. Mr. Allen urged upon him, that as England
was about to take measures for the abolition of slavery,

Spain ought to pursue the same course, and entreated

that some plan might be devised for assisting the poor,
instead of allowing them to beg in the streets ; but h .:
frankly confessed the difficulty of adopting any meas

ures for amelioration.

    With a letter containing the King's authority, they
started on the 25th, to inspect the institutions, assisted
1833.]  THE ROYAL HOSPITAL.  451

by the American Ambassador's son, who kindly offered
to be their interpreter. The " Real Hermandad del
Refugio " is a general refuge, or, in fact, a workhouse,

containing eight hundred and fifty aged men, women,
and children. The " Real Casa Inclusa," is a hospital
for foundlings, the business of which is conducted with
great method. Twenty-three nuns have the care of
the children, about two thousand six hundred of whom
are generally under the charge of this establishment.
The average reception is about six per day, and the

average mortality above four in every five. At a

suitable age the girls go out to service, but many
become nuns. Laboring men are desirous of obtain
ing wives who have been brought up at this institution,

knowing the good training it affords. It is amply

endowed.

   The Royal Hospital is a very magnificent pile of
building, with spacious corridors, which form walks

for the patients. Those who can afford to do so, pay
a moderate sum ; those who cannot are received gratis.
They are served and superintended by the Sisters of
Charity. They next visited an' establishment for
training this class of nuns.

   ft We were met," says Mr. Allen, " by some of the
elder sisters, who received us courteously. One of

the young women being able to speak French, much

interesting conversation took place, and opportunity
was given for religious communication; thus, in visit

ing institutions of this nature, occasions, from time to
time occur, of introducing sentiments which, under the
the Divine blessing, may induce serious and profitable
reflection, expand the mind to more enlarged views
452  INSPECTS INFIRMARY FOR WOMEN.  [183S.

of Christian duty, and promote a knowledge of the
gospel of the grace of God. About twenty young
women were present; on our coming away, the senior
sisters evinced feelings of respect which I believe were
mutual. They directed the gardener to gather some
violets for us, and presented us each with a nosegay."

   The institution which surpassed in interest any they
had previously seen, was " for women laboring under
incurable diseases," which Mr. Allen thus describes:

   " It appeared peculiarly adapted to the mitigation
of sufferings which, though they often claim the sym

pathy of the benevolent, have not, to my knowledge,
been so fully and effectually provided for in any other
country; and we could not but desire the establish
ment of many of a similar character, in other parts.
There are three wards, each containing seventeen beds,
with white curtains, which may be drawn all round
if the patients wish to be retired. The floors are

matted, and everything beautifully neat and clean.

Two glass lanterns were suspended in each room. A

splendid chapel, with an altar, imagery, and candles
is so contrived tha't, when the glass doors are thrown
open, the patients who are in bed can see the mass
performed. The eighteen sisters who have the care
of this establishment were very affable and respectful
in their manners, and several of them had very inter
esting countenances. They have also the care of a
school for two hundred little children. In the kitchen,

the utensils appeared exceedingly bright and nice.
Some of the younger sisters were ironing. We had
much conversation with them, and were struck with the
air of comfort which seemed to prevail. We walked
1833.]  PRIESTCRAFT IN SPAIN.  453

round their nice enclosed garden, and on coming into
the house sat down together in one of the rooms, when

Stephen made some very suitable remarks, which
were well received."

   " Third Month 2d. -- This morning we visited the
Great Prison, a very large building with a magnificent
frontage; the Court House, where the courts of justice

are held, adjoins. There are three hundred and ninety

prisoners. Many are committed for murder, among
whom are two boys, apparently under fourteen years
of age. The countenances of some had an awful
expression of wickedness. Eight executions have
already taken place this year, but there were only
three during the whole of last year. No fetters or
chains were to be seen in all the prisons, nor any
appearance of corporal punishments ; but we regretted
the want of classification. We were accompanied by

two gentlemen, besides the gaoler and his attendants,

and were very respectfully treated. The prison is
near the great square, where those horrible sacrifices
took place, termed, 'Auto de F<V and from the balcony
of the palace, in the centre of one of the angles, the

royal family used to witness the spectacle."
   In the house of the American Ambassador they had

worship on the Sabbath, and during the other days of
the week spent most agreeable seasons with Sir Strat
ford and Lady Canning and the Spanish Ministers of
State. On one of these occasions he learned that the
priests until lately, when attending dying persons, " fre
quently induced them to make their wills so as to

bequeath large sums to ecclesiastical purposes, and
often to the grievous injury of their own families;
 454 INTERVIEW WITH THE KING AND QUEEN. [1833.

through the influence of the Queen, however, such
wills are no longer legal." And if in Spain they
are no longer legal, it is to be hoped that the
British Parliament will enact a similar law; for we

have had lately numerous proofs how needy relatives
will be plundered of their property. Count d'Ofalia

having informed them that the King wished to see

them, they prepared a report to present to his Majesty,
containing representations of what they had seen, and

suggestions for the future, calculated to aid benevo
lence and independence of character. The heads of
the report included mendicity, peasantry, prisons, and
negro slavery. The interview took place at the
palace at five o'clock on the 1oth of March, which Mr.

Allen thus describes:--
   " We were introduced into an apartment, in the

middle of which the King and Queen were standing:

they were both very plainly dressed, and the Queen

was holding the hand of the little Princess, their

daughter, a nice lively child, who seemed much di
verted at seeing us. We mentioned several subjects to

the King and Queen, some of a religious nature, and

though we could not expect persons in their exalted
station to commit themselves by any decided remarks,
yet their conduct altogether, and what they did say,
evinced kind and respectful feelings. Part of the time

the King and Queen each held a hand of the child,
who is just two years and five months old. They have

another little girl, who is younger. There was no
other person in the room, except the nurse, who stood
at some distance. After remaining from a quarter to
1833.]      ARRIVES AT VALENCIA.  455

half an hour, we took respectful leave, under a precious

feeling of the support of our Divine Master."

  On the nth they started for Valencia, in the dili

gence, by a road infested by brigands. Their man,

Antonio, begged that he might purchase a torch to

conduct them to the diligence, as two persons had been

murdered in the streets the previous night, and robbed

even of their clothes. The diligence in which they

travelled was attacked and plundered only a fortnight

before, near Coeral, a very wild part. They, however,
escaped. On reaching Valencia, the aspect of the

country changed : cultivation and irrigation were car

ried on to a great extent; the climate was warmer;

o~ange trees appeared loaded with ripe fruit, palm trees
and aloes, with the Indian fig of a large size. Many,

even of the young people, however, looked thin and
sickly, and seemed but half clothed.

   "The streets of Valencia," says Mr. Allen, "are

very .narrow ; though they are not paved, it is much

easier walking than at Madrid. It is quite a manu

facturing place ; we see a great deal going forward in

the shops as we pass, ana the people seem very in

dustrious.  In the afternoon we called upon the

Governor and authorities, and were kindly and respect

fully received. They had previously been apprised
of our coming by members of the government at

Madrid, who, fearing lest the singularity of our manners

and appearance might lead the populace to offer any

insult, not only sent orders that we should be attended

by officers when we visited the prisons, etc., but

caused an article to be inserted in the Gazette, giving
information of our religious peculiarities We had
456                THE PRISONS OF VALENCIA.      [1833.

offers of cavalry to protect us from the banditti on the
road, but this, of course, we were not free to accept.
We certainly have great reason to speak highly of the

manner in which we have been treated by the Spanish

Government."

They were escorted by officers to the prisons of

Valencia, where they found men imprisoned for the

smallest offences associated with assassins and the worst
of criminals. " In one place we saw a boy, about
thirteen years of age, with a fetter upon one of his legs,

and confined in the same yard with prisoners who work

in chains, and the only crime laid to his charge was
that 'he was a vagabond.' "

The French Consul appears to have been a man of

great literary attainments, with a very benevolent
heart. " His account," says Mr. Allen, " of the cor
ruption of the officers of justice is shocking; indeed,

it seems that everything is to be bought with money,

and that assassins who have wealth escape almost in

variably    ; the  power     of the  priests is  enormous."   this
   " iqth.         Serraire    took  me into     the country
            -- P.

morning to visit some of the peasants in their cottages.

I was sorry to find them so borne down by tithes and

imposts, that when these and their rent are paid, they
have very little left. Their cottages are of earth, one

chamber is usually partitioned off, and the other apart
ment is for kitchen, stable, pig-stye, and fowl house,

all under the same roof; the ceilings were formed of
strong reeds, and the space under the roof was used
for silk worms, the eggs of which were put into a

basket, and placed between the mattresses and the bed

for warmth."
1833.]  TYRANNY OF COUNT o'ESPAGNE.  457

  "We reached Barcelona on the morning of the 226,

passing through wild, rocky, mountainous scenery,
giving at times fine views of the Mediterranean; we
crossed the Ebro near Tortosa : here, and about Tar
ragona, the country becomes more fertile, but it is
very much rendered so by diligent irrigation, and this
seems to have an injurious effect upon the health of

the inhabitants. Here the authorities had begun to
act upon enlightened plans, by establishing schools for
the young, and encouraging works of industry ; but
that tyrant, the Count d'Espagne, who had till lately
ruled the nation with a rod of iron, put a stop to these

measures, upon the plea that they only tended to make

people more expert in mischief; he seemed to delight
in massacre, and we heard some dreadful instances of

his brutality. Persons belonging to the first families
in Barcelona have been immured in these horrid dun

geons, and then murdered by his orders.

   " On returning to the inn after viewing the citadel I
found Stephen in close conversation with Don Felix
Torres Amat, an ecclesiastic high in the church of

Madrid ; he has been engaged for years in translating
the Old and New Testament, including the Apocrypha,
into pure Castilian Spanish, a more elegant version
than that of our British and Foreign Bible Society;
he encountered much opposition ln the course of his
labors, but has succeeded in bringing out one edition
of his work, in which he has printed the text of the

Latin Vulgate, with short notes. It was eagerly re

ceived, and he commenced a second edition ; this the

enemies of truth retarded for a time, but now his

prospect brightens, and he hopes to be able to proceed
458  SECOND REPORT TO THE KING.  '"1833.

with it. He gave a. very interesting account of the
origin and progress of his work, and we were glad to

find that there is a great disposition in Spain to pur
chase the Scriptures. He presented us with a copy
of his translation, in nine volumes ; he is very animated

in conversation, and his courage and resolution remin

ded me of Luther. It is remarkable how the Lord

raises up instruments for the work which he has to be

done."

   Having been requested by the King to send him
their observations on what they saw in other parts of
Spain, Mr. Allen drew up a second report. After

thanking their Majesties for their kindness to two

strangers, and expressing joy at being informed that
the King had determined on a classification of the

prisoners, according to their age, degree and the nature
of their crimes, he presents the following faithful and

judicious statements :--
   " They beg leave to observe that the great success

which has attended the societies formed both in En

gland and in the United States of North America, in
the establishment of schools, the relief of the poor,
the reform of criminals, etc., is principally owing to
the adoption of a wise system of policy on the part of
the government, which makes no distinction between
its faithful subjects on account of their religious opin
ions, but unites the virtuous exertions of all towards

the public good, and thereby ensures to the state its

greatest security and support.

   "The peasants in Spain are generally in a state of

great poverty, occasioned by the heavy demands made
upon the produce of their land ; in some instances one
1833 ]            HOPE FOR SPAIN.         459

seventh part of every one of their crops is taken for

tithe ; this, with additional demands of the clergy, and

various other imposts, leaves but very little for the

poor peasant, and when he brings even this into the

city for sale, an arbitrary tax is exacted at the gates ;
this is the cause of very serious discontent. They are

persuaded that the feeling hearts of the KingandQueen

can but compassionate their subjects in their distress.

May Divine Wisdom direct them so as to provide a

remedy for this evil.
   " In their visits to the prisons they were struck with

observing the great number committed for contraband

proceedings, and would suggest whether what relates

to the collection of taxes might not be susceptible of
some improvement ; and they believe it will, on thor

ough investigation, be found that the officers having

low salaries, are led to increase their revenues by taking

bribes, and thus occasion a heavy loss to the state,

while in many instances acts of great oppression are

exercised upon the subject."

After recommending the recent system of mild

treatment adopted in asylums in England towards the

insane, they conclude with expressing an earnest prayer
for the salvation of the King, Queen, and Royal Prin

cesses (the present Queen of Spain and the Duchess
de Montpensier), and for the happiness of their king

dom.

On leaving Spain Mr. Allen saw, on a review of his

proceedings and   of the state  of the     people, some
ground for hope.    He remarks  : --" It  is encouraging

to believe that, though much hidden from outward

observation, there is a precious seed scattered through
460  PERILS OK THE PYRENEES.  [1833.

this nation, and we trust that the Lord of the harvest

will, in his own time, cause it to spring up yet more
conspicuously, and bring forth fruit. We learnt that
a considerable number of the Roman Catholics in
many parts of Spain maintain the principles of Arch
bishop Fenelon, and are acquainted with the nature
of true spiritual worship; but such is the overwhelm
ing influence of the priests and the gross ignorance of

the people, that great prudence and care are requisite

in any attempts to diffuse knowledge or to promote
the cause of truth."

   " Third Month 2-jth. --We started in the diligence

for Perpignan, and entered the French territory near
Jonquieres. Whilst winding amongst the rocks and

precipices of the Pyrenees, Stephen and I walked on
a considerable distance, admiring the grandeur of the
scene, but with thankful hearts admiring still more the
leadings of the Divine hand, which had guided us in

this remarkable journey. Soon after we re entered

our vehicle, the road became terrific. There seemed

scarcely a step between the wheel of the carriage and
the edge of the precipice, and the turn was so sharp
that I felt myself squeezing the lining of the diligence,
and scarcely dared to look down. Our driver, who

appeared to be an old soldier, had lost his left eye, and
the danger was always on that side. The mountain

torrents struggled and roared amid the rocks beneath;
and though it would have been delightful to contem

plate the interesting and magnificent scenery around us

on foot, yet I was heartily glad when we approached
the green fields below. We did not reach Perpignan
1833.]            RETURNS TO ENGLAND.     461

till about nine o'clock. It is quite a comfort to come

again into a country where we can speak and under

stand the language of the inhabitants."

They reached Toulouse on the 3Oth, and on the

next day, being the Sabbath, worshipped with Chabrand

the pastor, where a large company assembled, whom
Mr. Allen addressed. " The next day," he observes,
" we went to dine with the Courtoises, met a large

company, and had much religious conversation. Their

pious and amiable mother gave us some interesting

particulars respecting her three sons. They are sweetly

united in bonds stronger than those of nature ; they

have but one purse, and all things in common, and
their letters are signed with their three names. The

more I see of them the more I love them -- they seem
always abounding in the work of the Lord, and are

indeed a remarkable family. Their father is a banker,

and has three brothers in the business."

   On   the 5th   of April   they  arrived at Bayonne. Mr.
Allen             " From    what
        says, --                   we have heard since we

came here, it appears that we left Madrid just at the

right time; popular tumults have taken place, and
things seem coming to a crisis in Spain. It is really

wonderful that we went into that country almost as

soon as there was an opening, and left it very shortly

before that opening closed. Thanks to the Preserver

of men !"

For a few days, Mr. Allen remained in Paris with

his friends, stirring them up on subjects of national

and eternal importance, and then started for Stoke

Ncvvington, which he reached in peace and safety on

the 1 8th.
462  THANKSGIVING TO GOD.  [1833.

   " Thus," he observes, " my Great Master has brought

me back again to my beloved wife, and those who are
dearest to me in life. Thanksgiving and praise to his

ever adorable name, who is worthy to be served with
all that He has given us I"
                   CHAPTER XVIII.

          DEATH OF HIS WIFE, AND VISIT TO IRELAND.

    SOON after Mr. Allen's return from Spain, a tedious
attack of illness prostrated his strength, and rendered

him incapable of much exertion. A visit to Lindfield

contributed partially to restore his powers, yet he con
tinued for some months to complain of great weakness.

To proceed with his foreign correspondence, he found

it necessary to give up attending committees in town,
except under imperative circumstances. On the res
toration of his health, we find him abandoning his
resolution, and taking an active part in the stirring

events of the times. In July he had an interview
with the Duke of Sussex, while at breakfast, to rep
resent the pernicious principles of the American Col

onization Society -- an attempt to perpetuate slavery
by transporting to Liberia all the free men of color.

His pamphlet, entitled "A Plan for Diminishing the

Poor's Rates in Agricultural Districts ; being a brief
account of the objects and plans pursued upon
' Gravely Estate,' in the parish of Lindfield, in Sussex,
by John Smith, M. P., and William Allen, for bettering
the condition of the agricultural poor," received con
siderable additions. It was reviewed by The Times
with much approbation, especially that part of it

                                                    (4G3)
461  DEATH OF WILBERFORCE.  [1833.

which condemns paying wages out of the poor's

rates.

   To his great joy the House of Commons had come

to the resolution that slavery should cease, immedi
ately and for ever. His friend, Mr. Wilberforce, who
had dedicated all the energies of his soul to this

righteous cause, was not permitted to leave this world
till he had heard that the fetters of the negro were to
be struck off-- an ample reward, and a triumphant

close of his sanctified efforts. He died the 2Qth July,
1833. Though Mr Wilberforce walked in a different

religious circle, and at times could not, either from
religious prejudice, ecclesiastical associations, or po
litical opinions, unite with Mr. Allen in some of his
expansive schemes of education and benevolence, yet
Mr. Allen sincerely esteemed and loved him, as a

friend to the human race, more especially to the poor
negro, and his death was felt by him as a great loss to
the community. Into the meetings held at this period
to strengthen the hands of government, and confirm
the liberation of the negro, Mr. Allen threw all his

energies.

   In the course of the winter, he was frequently
under great solicitude on account of the feeble state
of his wife's health, a severe attack of bleeding at the

nose having much reduced her strength, and confined
her to the house. Thi« kept him at Newington, and
enabled him to devote a considerable portion of his
time to his religious Society, and to institutions in and
near London. His wife's health somewhat improving,
he left London for Ireland with his old friend Stephen

Grellet and his niece, to attend the yearly meeting in
1834.]         AFRICAN PRODUCE.  465

Dublin, one object of which was to consider the best

means of affording relief to a class of persons in the
province of Ulster, who had either lost their member

ship in the Society of Friends, or were the offspring
of such; and being thus separated from the body,

without having united themselves to any other relig

ious community, were nearly cut off from their Chris

tian care and oversight. After a statement of their

case, a subscription was entered into on their behalf,

and liberal funds placed at the disposal of a com

mittee.

   His heart was rejoiced in May, 1834, to learn from
Mr. W. Watson, that he had received a number of

bags of cotton from  Africa,   ansdaysexpMerc.teAdlleton,re"ceisivea
one hundred more.    " This,"

point I have been aiming at for upwards of thirty

years. Watson sent out some seed, which the colored

settlers eagerly received, and a considerable quantity

is now grown." But finding that obstacles were
thrown in the way of the introduction of Sierra Leone

produce, as well as that of Gambia, he sent the fol

lowing spirited remonstrances to members of the
               To Lord John Russell he writes: --
government.    Leone, the captured negroes at the dif

  " At Sierra

ferent settlements have sown the cotton seed which

has been sent to them from time to time, and they are

now beginning to raise it in quantity. Several bales

have been already sent over, and our manufacturers

pronounce the staple good, From the Gambia, two

parcels of paddy have been imported into this coun

try, and passed the customs, but the third has been

Stopped by the machinations of the agents of the
466  PLEADS FOR AFRICAN PRODUCE.  [1834.

slave-holders of North Carolina in this country, who
wish to have the monopoly of the article. May I beg
of thee to use thy influence with the Lords of the

Treasury."

   To Spring Rice, he writes :-- " Is it not monstrous
that the slaveholders of North. Carolina, and their

agents here, should be patronized by our government,
while the agents of our colonies, who are doing what

Wilberforce, Clarkson, Buxton, and all of us had been

anxiously longing for, should be discouraged? Was
it not deemed by some of the most active members
ef the present government, an object of paramount

importance, to encourage the Africans to trade in the
innocent products of their country, instead of the

persons of each other? I cannot bring myself to

believe that the Lords of the Treasury will ever sanc

tion such proceedings. I have not the smallest inter

est in any trade to Africa, but I am sure it would be
a jneasure of sound policy in the government, to en
courage such of our merchants as are employing
their capital in importing the products of Africa, and
opening new channels for the exportation of our

manufactures."

   These remonstrances had their effect, and produced
the following reply : --

      " MY DEAR FRIEND,

  " I understand that directions have been given by

the Treasury, to admit the cargo of paddy, on pay
ment of the lower duty, and previously to any deci

sion being made on the general question, the subject
has been referred by the Treasury to the Board of
1884.]  THE DAY OF JUBILEE.  467

Trade for their opinion ; the Secretary for the Colo
nies will also be consulted.

                            "Yours faithfully,

                                            "J. RUSSELL."

   Three bills, each by a different member, were intro
duced into Parliament, on the subject of capital pun
ishment. After seeing Lord Howick on the subject,
and reminding him that in more than one instance of

late, innocent persons had suffered, " I then," says
Mr. Allen, "proceeded to the Lord Chancellor's room
at the House of Lords, as he had appointed : he came

out to me. I held in my hand the Times newspaper,

and expressed my grief on seeing in it a speech made

by him in the House last night, in which he put the
matter of the remission of the punishment of death,
on the subject of expediency, and justified its infliction.
This called forth some strong invectives against the
supporters of the bills, and he said there were not one

hundred persons to be found in the kingdom who

adopted my notions on the punishment of death. I

coolly told him there were thousands, and that the

number was constantly increasing. I was pained at

his sentiments, and soon afterwards came away.'

   " Eighth Month ist. --A day of jubilee. Eight

hundred thousand of our fellow creatures released
from slavery this day, in our West India Islands ! My

spirit is clothed with thankfulness. A large meeting

was held at the Freemasons' Tavern, where the mem

bers of the Anti-Slavery Committee, and the friends
of the abolition of slavery, dined together. I thought
it right to attend the first part of the time. The Earl
468  INTERESTING CIRCUMSTANCES.  [1834.

of Mulgrave, who presided, made an excellent speech,
and gave us much information on the state of affairs

in Jamaica. Several other persons also spoke well.

   I cannot describe my feelings, on beholding, on this

occasion, the countenances of many with whom I had

labored for a great part of my life, but who were now
met together at the consummation. Reverent thank

fulness not only prevailed in my heart, but I believe

in the hearts of many present, and we were ready to

exclaim, ' What hath God wrought ! ' I had some con
versation with several whom I much wished to see,

and endeavored to interest Lord Morpeth in favor of
the introduction of the produce of Africa into this
country, also T. F. Buxton and Dr. Lushington.

   After having for more than forty years abstained
from the use of sugar, on account of its being the

Iproduce of the labor of slaves, now, that they are de

clared free by the government, recommenced taking
it this day at Peter Bedford's."

   That this testimony against slavery, small as it

may appear to some, was not without an important

influence, is evidenced by the following interesting

circumstances : --

   P. Elout, a judge, and a person of high consider
ation at the Hague, in conversation with Mr. G. W.
Alexander, on the subject of slavery, said, " It is to

William Allen I attribute all I have felt and done for

the cause of the slave. When he was -U: the Hague,

many years since, I was invited, together with a num

ber of serious individuals, to take tea with him. I was

then quite a youth. He took no sugar with his tea,

which surprised me. I was more surprised by the
1834.]  TAKES BOARDERS AT LINDFIELD.                           4t)9

reason he gave for this. He told the company that lie

had long abstained from the use of because he could
a
not, with peace of mind, partake of that as a gratifica
    I
                aItion, for which thousands of innocent people were

                               acompelled to labor in cruel and hopeless bondage.
                                                     a         ;
                                                          it,was struck with this example of self-denial, by so great
                                                                   I
a man as thought him to be, in thing so seemingly

small in itself, and was led to consider how great

must be the evil of system which could make so deep

and so religious an impression upon his feelings. From

that period my own sentiments have been engaged in

the cause of the negro, and my efforts given to procure
their emancipation in the colonies of Holland."

Mr. Allen had been long revolving in his mind an

experiment which he now determined to make at

Lindfield, to receive  select number of boys as

boarders, each to pay £10 per annum for board,

lodging, clothing, and education, in order to ascer

tain how far such an establishment might be made

to support itself by the labor of the children in

connection with the farm. He enlarged and fitted

up the premises for the purpose of giving to each

boy separate room, limiting his experiment for

the first year to twelve, and giving preference to

boys from Ireland on whose behalf he had lately been

so much interested. Whether all his plans at Lind
field succeeded to the extent of his expectations and

whether, without the leniency of so indulgent a land

lord, the poor persons located on the farms would

have been able wholly to support their families from

the produce, may be questioned but whatever arrears
                       ;

were due on former accounts, he cheered himself
470  NECESSITY OF ENTHUSIASM.                   [1834.

with present prospects. " I leave Lindfield this time

with a pleasing conviction that all the tenants are in a

way to pay their rents." Some accused him of being

too sanguine, and ranked his Lindfield experiments

among the dreams of enthusiasm, but he nobly
replies :--
                                                        I
  " It is very possible that I am too sanguine.

remember what Charles James Fox said in the House
of Commons when the friends of slave- merchants

within those walls charged the abolitionists with

enthusiasm; turning to the speaker, he exclaimed,
' Enthusiasm, Sir ! why there never was any good done

in the world without enthusiasm.' We must feel warm

upon our projects, otherwise, from the discouragements

we are sure to meet with here, they will drop through."

The spirit, however, in which opposition to his

Ibenevolent plans was met was very lovely and Christ-

like. Hear him express it :-- " am hastening towards
the close of all things here ; the query arises, ' what
lack I yet ?' Answer, ' more of the meekness and
Igentleness of Chirst.'
                         am too sensitive on opposi

tion to my views; more true humility is wanted. O,

Thou who art all powerful, help ! One mind really

imbued with heavenly love, will shed a sweet influence

upon all those with whom it is associated. Offences

will come. I have been considering how important it

is to endeavor to keep the mind in such a state of

watchfulness as never, unnecessarily, to hurt the feel

ings of any one ; to be kind and affectionate towards

all by whom we are surrounded, and to live in love ;

this can only be attained by keeping under the

influence of the Spirit of our dear Redeemer."
1835.] USEFULNESS OF "COLONIES AT HOME."  471

  A severe attack of illness during the month of

December brought him very low, but it was sanctified
to produce an increase of the spirit for which he was

so eminent. He observes :-- " I have seen during this

illness that my dependence upon, and faith in, my dear
Lord and Master have not been so perfect as they
should be ; hence much of that anxiety which has been

injurious to my health. I am well aware of the effect

that the mind has upon the body, and earnestly desire
to be enabled fully and unreservedly to trust in the
name of the Lord, and stay upon my God."

   During the latter part of 1834 and the spring of
1835 the most encouraging accounts arrived from
different quarters of the fruits of his continental visits.
Prince Galitzin informs him: --"The Minister of the
Interior found his ' Colonies at Home' so useful that

he ordered it be translated into German, and printed
copies of it to be distributed in the several colonies of
the interior of Russia. One of his friends informed
him that there were now six schools on the Lan-

casterian method in Palermo, containing 1500 children

and succeeding remarkably well." Don Angel Villa-

lobos was sent to this country by the Spanish govern
ment to obtain information respecting the British and
Foreign school system, in order that it might be

introduced into Spain. "Thus," says Mr. Allen,
"may we hope that the memorial which S. Grelletand

I presented to the King and Queen when we were at

Madrid was not without its effect." The Portuguese

Ambassador and others met the persons sent from

Spain (another having arrived) and felt they must not

be left behind in this great work. The King of
472  INTERESTING CONVERSATION.  [1835.

Bavaria and other monarchs had printed and circulated
Mr. Allen's agricultural work widely in their domin
ions. Every day brought him some good tidings that
his labor had not been in vain in the Lord.

   Besides the occasional visits of dignified and official
persons at his residence at Stoke Newington, there
were other visitors who, though often differing from
him on points of religious doctrine and discipline,

were heartily welcomed, and blessed by his piety and

example.
   Such notices as the following often occur :

     Sir Stratford and Lady Canning, Count Jenison,
the Bavarian Ambassador, Colonel Colebrooke, E.
Mayer of Florence, and William Crawford, dined and
spent the afternoon with us. We had much very

interesting conversation on several topics. Religious
toleration, and the importance of our conduct being
governed by principle without reference to expediency,

were amongst the subjects brought forward. I showed
the company Jupiter and Saturn through my large
telescope. They all seemed much pleased. It was a

very agreeable visit, and everything answered well.

   " jth.-- Lord Brougham and Antonio Bergnese

dined with us to-day ; a satisfactory visit ; the former

was particularly interesting."
   Here is an instance of receiving " an angel un

awares :" Dear Isaac Hadwen dined with us to-day,

and afterwards went up stairs to see my dear wife,
who has been very feeble lately, and was not well
enough to be with us ; it was an interesting and agree
able interview ; he is now in his eighty-second year,
and speaking cheerfully of the help from above, which
1835.]  LETTER FROM THOLUCK  473

had been graciously vouchsafed to him from time to

time, he said, ' One lift more and that to Heaven? I

was quite affected."

    Professor Tholuck, 01 Halle, spent some time under
his roof. On the day of his departure Mr. Allen says :

"There being a large company, I took Tholuck and

Thomas Shillitoe into another room, and we sat down

together in silence, and had a sweet religious oppor

tunity. I addressed our friend, who was greatly con-

trited; and T. S. afterwards said a few words to him.

It was a season ever to be remembered.
   " In a short note which he sent to me when on the

point of departure, he says, ' My dearest fatherly

friend, I thank you once more for all, I thank you

more especially for the last holy quarter of an hour ;

we shall find it again, with its fruits, in eternity.'"
   Soon after his return home, Tholuck again graf<"-

fully alludes to his visit to the man of God :

  I" Once more address you from my study, to which

the grace of the Lord has safely led me back, and in
which, in the midst of the trials and numberless en
gagements of my station, I feel often refreshed and
comforted by the recollection of all the good I have

experienced in your blessed country, and more espe
cially under your own roof. My dear paternal friend,

I have no one here to whom I can look up for conso
lation, for exhortation and reproof; I am surrounded

by hundreds who want continually to receive from me.
Under such circumstances you will easily perceive

how precious such a recreation as I have enjoyed

must be to me. Oh ! my heart pants for more com
munion with aged brethren from whom I can learn,
474  ILLNESS OF MRS. ALLEN.  [1835.

by whom I can be edified. The Lord, however, knows
best why He desires me to take my only refreshment
from the fountain, instead of the brooks and channels.

I have resumed my public functions ; I have before
me a class of one hundred students, to whom I explain

the Gospel of St. Matthew, a little band of from forty

to fifty, with whom I meet for private conversation on

holy subjects, and an audience of four hundred students,

to whom I am allowed to preach the Gospel of Christ.
I am happy to say that I am returned to this extensive

field of labor with new spiritual and bodily energy.
My dear Ernestus Mlihler has none in England for
whom he sends up warmer prayers than you and your

family."
   The declining health of his wife gave Mr. Allen

great anxiety, but neither he nor Dr. Farre saw reason

for immediate alarm. However, on the I2th of July,

she became worse ; he spent the evening with her,
reading to her in the Psalms, and says " we enjoyed

each other's society." During the night the symptoms

were greatly aggravated, and she soon appeared to
lose all consciousness. Her affectionate husband

states, " I sent for Dr. Farre, but I have no hopes."

  " Sixth Month i^th. -- A day of distress and sore

anguish, attending continually on my precious wife.

The last portion of Scripture I ever read to her was
the 3 1st Psalm, and the last verse I have gratefully to

acknowledge was soon after verified in my own expe
rience, ' Be of good courage, and He shall strengthen
vour heart, all ye that hope in the Lord.' "

   i$th. -- My beloved seemed much in the same state,
but rather more sinking towards morning. My secret
1835.]  DEATH AND BURIAL OF MRS. ALLEN.  475

prayers were fervent and constant that our gracious
Lord and Master would look down upon my inex

pressibly precious companion, and in mercy favor her
with an easy dismissal, and also that He would favor
us with a sense of His good presence and love; this,

I humbly trust, was granted. About half-past nine

o'clock she was gently released, and I reverently believe

that her blessed and purified spirit, through the merits

and sacrifice of our adorable Redeemer, was received
into His everlasting rest.

  " We sat some time in silence : I then knelt down

by the bedside, and was enabled to give thanks for the

support graciously vouchsafed, and for the consoling

trust that the spirit of the dear departed had been

received into the mansions of rest and peace. I sup

plicated for those dear unto her, and that we, for the
future, might serve our Great Master still more faith

fully. It was indeed a memorable time; but O, how

keenly nature feels ! how she was made a blessing to
me in every way ! Her judgment was sound, her
integrity great; much as she loved me, she always
gave me up cheerfully for the service of the church ;
she was very diffident in speaking on religious subjects,

and 1 believe refrained from adverting much to the

future, for fear of wounding my feelings, as she well

knew the depth of my affection for her. I little thought

that First-day evening would be the last time we should
be able to converse together, but precious is the remem

brance of that day. Oh, how I shall miss her society

and love !"

    The funeral took place on the 226, at Winchmore
 Hill. At the ground, Mr. Allen says, " my dear
470  LETTER FROM THOMAS CLARKSON.  [1835.

daughter-in law, "Elizabeth Hanbury, spoke sweetly.
I have nothing more now to desire, but to be enabled
to fill up the measure of duties and sufferings, and that
through infinite mercy, and the merits of my dear

Redeemer, I may also receive a peaceful dismissal,

and rejoin her blessed spirit, together with the spirits

of other beloved ones gone before, to unite in praising,
blessing, and magnifying Him that sitteth upon the

Throne and the Lamb for ever and ever. --Amen,
Lord Jesus."

   The sympathy of Mr. Allen's friends, and the testi
mony they bore to the character and piety of his
deceased wife, tended to mitigate the keenness of his
sorrow. Mr. Clarkson writes:

   " You may imagine what my feelings were, when
the intelligence of this morning was communicated to
me, for it brought up, additionally, the recollection of

early and interesting circumstances in my life, which
it will always be dear to me to remember. The very

first house in the country, about London, in which I

was received and encouraged, in my early pursuits in
the cause of the abolition of the slave trade, was that

in which you now live, and in which she, my deceased

friend, died. She and her brother Samuel Hoare and

I, dined there together forty-nine years ago; it was

then her father's, and I think he was present. I have
always remembered that visit with gratitude, and I

have never entered the house since, but a pleasurable
feeling has come over me, which it is out of my power

to describe ; besides, she was always particularly kind
to me, even to my last visit about seven weeks ago ;
1835.]  REMARKS ON THE CLOSING YEAR.             477

she seems to have possessed a sweet serenity and

complacency of mind to the last."
   Joseph John Gurney thus addresses him :--" Truly

affected were we, my beloved friend, on arriving here

last evening, to hear of the decease of our late dear
cousin. I can truly say, that the intelligence gave me

an unfeigned touch of sorrow. So are the tender ties

which bind us to this passing world, broken one after

another! So is the lesson read to us, from day to day,

that life is but a vapor, and soon vanisheth away ! I

well know that the event must have been deeply

touching to thee, but the eye of faith can pierce through
the cloud, and embrace the flight of her purified spirit

to an infinitely happier region. We cannot doubt that
the end of her mortal career was perfect peace, and
that through the infinite merits and mercies of the

Saviour, whom she loved, and served, she is now joined

to the countless company of saints and angels, who

forever sing his praise."

Mr. Allen's weeping did not, however, prevent his

sowing, for a fortnight afterwards we find he addressed
the meeting at Stoke Newington, and " was much re

vived and comforted." On the 2nd of August, he

again   spoke   in ministry   at Brighton, and   on the    Qth
there   is the  following                         writing    to
                             entry: --"Finished

nineteen members of Parliament, urging them to

support Buxton, Burrell, and Lushington, in the

House of Commons, on the I3th, on the subject of

the Mauritius."

   The year 1836 is thus commenced: --"'Take thee
another roll.' Ah ! that which has been filled up bore

strong characters of tribulation and woe. What may
478  KINDNESS OF HIS NIECES.            [1836

be inscribed on the present is hidden from me, but
bonds and afflictions are anticipated. O, that they
may have the effect, under the sanctifying power of
divine grace, of .preparing the immortal spirit for a

union with the saints in light. If so, it will be solely
the effect of Emmanuel's love. I have no merit to

Ibring forward, nor anything wherewith to recommend
myself, but my utter poverty and want.  long to

recline my weary head upon his dear bosom, and to

sleep in him forever."
   From the decease of his wife, Mr. Allen's two nieces,

L. and E. Bradshaw, who had lived with him for some

time previously, most sedulously attended to his

comforts.

   " In my bereaved state," he observes, " what a mercy

it is to have two such kind care-takers as my dear E.

and L. Let me remember my blessings, as well as my

tribulations, which have not been few or slight in the
course of my pilgrimage."

   Mr.. Allen had long been desirous of paying a visit
to the south-west of Ireland, in order to obtain an

insight into the moral and social condition of the peas
antry, the agricultural resources of the country, the

experiments in progress, under the sanction of Govern
ment on the lands of Pobble O'Keefe, in the county of

Cork, and to promote some objects connected with
education, and with his plan of home colonization.

August was the time arranged for the accomplishment
of his object. He was accompanied by his nieces,
Eliza and Lucy Bradshaw, and John Harford of Chew
Magna. After a fine passage of about twenty-five

hours from Bristol, they arrived on the 7th at Cork.
1836.]  THE LAKES OF KILLARNEY.  479

From thence they went to Killarney, and the next day

to King William's Town, on the lands of Pobble

O'Keefe :--
   " We passed through a wild boggy country, bare of

trees, and saw many miserable cabins --a considerable
number of which have neither window nor chimney.

The children are uniformly in rags ; it seems to be

the practice to wear their garments as long as one

piece will hang to another. King William's Town,
which is about sixteen miles from Killarney, consists

at present of a few houses ; the inn and the school-
house are finished, and the girls' school has been
opened six days. The mistress was trained at Kildare
Street, and she already has sixty nine children in
attendance. We were sorry to find that, instead of
providing allotments for a number of poor people,
who might easily support themselves upon the land
by their labor, the plan seems to be, to form farms of
sixty or a hundred acres and upwards. There are five
thousand acres of crown land, and the result of experi

ments made upon three hundred acres of the bog are
delightful. Land that two years ago was wholly
unproductive, is now producing beautiful crops of corn,
turnips, carrots and potatoes. This is the effect of

draining, lime, and manure."

   " 1 2th. --This day was spent in an excursion on the
lakes. The weather was delightful, the mountain
scenery grand, and some parts most beautiful. We

landed on several of the islands, and had some salmon-

trout roasted before a fire, upon sticks of arbutus ; it

was exceedingly well done. A cannon was fired

opposite the Eagle's Nest, where the echoes are very
480  HABITS AND CUSTOMS OF THE PEOPLE. [1836.

fine. It is thirteen miles to the end of the lake, which

is eight miles broad. The water is beautifully clear,

though it has rather a darkish hue from the peat. We
went round Turk Lake, the scenery of which is also

delightful, but with all I did not feel in my element,
and seemed to be doing no good. I had, indeed, a

little serious conversation with the boatmen, and read

them a paper on temperance giving them also copies
of it to distribute."

When they entered Connaught a change in the

costume was visible: the women universally wearing
a sort of red petticoat.

   " Lord Wallscourt came over for us, and took us
in his carriage to Ardfry. We visited some of the

neighboring cottages, but the darkness, dirt, filth, and
rags are indescribable. Many of the proprietors, dirty
and ragged as they are, have from six to ten acres of

land, and their crops look well ; but whisky and the
priests are their bane, and it seems almost impossible
to raise them out of their present state. My spirits
sunk at the apparent hopelessness of doing much for
them, except in the way of schools. Lord W. takes
much pains to make them keep the manure from their

doors; he has built a very nice cottage, and would
let it with six or more acres of land, but none of the

tenants will take    because, His Lordship would

expect them to keep    clane.' "
                     " head inn," in various towns,
   He describes theit,
                     it

                                           '

called a hotel, as "filthy dirty," -- beggars as swarming

on market days, and the ignorance of the people as

almost incredible. Leaving Galway, they carr.e to

Oughterard, and engaged a boat to carry them up
1836]  JACK JOYCE'S COUNTRY.  481

Lough Corrib to Ma'am, the voyage occupying seven
hours instead of four, as the men had often to halt to
bale the water out of their leaky boat.

   The next day they started for Jack Joyce's country.
Mr. Allen says : " We met Jack, with whom we had

some conversation ; he has a very peculiar expression

of countenance, and I thought looked unutterable things.
We drove to his house, by the side of an arm of the
sea called the Killeries, which extends about eight

miles, and is so deep and free from rocks, that it is
said the navy of England might securely ride in it.
The surrounding mountains are grand. We went

some miles in a boat, and landed at a village on the

other side, called Bundanah, belonging to the Marquis

of Sligo ; it is decidedly the most miserable place we
have yet seen, children from eleven to twelve years of

age, almost naked, one looked like a walking skeleton,
with a few rags hanging about it. The huts are filthy,

dark, and smoky, the people are a great deal worse
off than many of the Russian peasantry ; we took an
opportunity of distributing a little money amongst

them."
   After visiting Castlebar, Sligo, Donegal, and Lon

donderry, they went to Brookfield, to see the new
establishment designed for the children of the descend
ants of Friends in Ireland; for the better conducting
of which, Mr. Allen afterwards prepared hints and
suggestions. He rather largely engaged in ministry
at Lisburn ; visited Ulster, and taking leave of his

friends in much afTcction, proceeded by Belfast to
Dublin. His remarks on the state of the country are
482 REMARKS ON THE STATE OF IRELAND. [1880.

applicable to its present condition, and, it is to he
feared, will be, as long as the people are under the
"heart-sickening slavery of their priests."

   " The want of profitable employment for the wretch
edly poor population of Ireland, must be a matter of
astonishment to any scientific agriculturist, in passing
through this country. Thousands of acres of easily
reclaimable bog are frequently meeting the eye of the

traveller, particularly in the southern and western dis
tricts. Limestone occurs in profusion ; nothing is
wanting but to convert it into lime, and apply it to the
surface after the land has been thoroughly drained.

   "The causes of misery of Ireland are- complicated.
They may with justice be, in some degree, referred to
the want of suitable education, and consequent gross
ignorance -- to the want of a fair opportunity for the
exercise of honest industry -- to ecclesiastical oppres
sion of some sort or other--to a blind subserviency to
the priests, and, above all --to the immoderate use of
whisky. This occasions the jails to be filled, and is
the most frequent cause of the murders and catalogue
of crimes, which have so long disgraced many parts

of that unhappy land.

   " It is cheering to observe a spirit of improvement

manifesting itself in various directions. Thus, roads
are being formed through districts which, for want of
access, were placed beyond the protection of the law:; ;

!)ogs are being drained ; cultivated fields are creeping

up the sides of the mountains, which were before
almost unproductive of food for man; benevolent indi
viduals and societies are actively engaged in promoting
1836.]  DUTIES IN MANCHESTER.  483

instruction and encouraging industry ; commerce is

rapidly increasing ; light and knowledge are spreading;

and, in proportion as they prevail, we may confidently
expect that superstition and ignorance will cease to
exist. While, however, the large proprietors of the
soil are adding to their revenues, through the improve
ment of their estates, the persons and cabins, of the
great mass of the people still exhibit a specimen of

dirt, rags and wretchedness, not to be equalled in any
other country in Europe ; but we are consoled by

observing, that public attention is powerfully excited
in the consideration of what can be done to ameliorate
the condition of the peasantry of Ireland."

   Mr. Allen returned home in October, and in the

next month visited the Meeting at Manchester, in
which was brought to a close the painful business of
separating from the Society of Friends a large number
of good and holy men, who had embraced sentiments

at variance with the opinions generally embraced by its
members. The service had been peculiarly trying to
his feelings on account of the affection he felt for the
individuals; but he considered that the cause of truth

was identified with the principles he supported, and

that only one course was left --that of expulsion. At

the close of the year we have the following epitome
of affairs which distressed his spirit:

   "The prospect of public affairs makes me low : corn
rising; scarcity in America; bread tenpence half

penny the quartern ; potatoes dear ; money scarce ;

banks in Ireland failing; Carlists prevailing in Spain ;
public funds falling ; our religious Society shaken with
484  HIS SUSTAINING SUPPORT.  [1836.

a tempest --all conspire to depress my spirits, but I

still perseveringly look up night and day to my
Almighty Saviour and Protector, with prayer for his
sustaining support during the remaining days of my

pilgrimage."
      CHAPTER XIX.

VARIOUS INCIDENTS, INCLUDING A JOURNEY TO PRUSSIA,
                               FROM 1837 TO 1840.

IN the course of the spring an object very near to

Mr. Allen's heart seemed on the eve of realization.

Mr. Ewart moved an amendment on Lord John
Russell's motion in the House of Commons, "that

the punishment of death be abolished in all cases

except murder." A debate of six hours followed;

" several spoke out nobly," but the amendment was

lost, though only by one. Considering this a triumph,

Mr. Allen had an interview with Lord John Russell
      Spring Rice, to entreat
and   Lord John seemed to      the minister to give   way:
                               think that the public  were
   "

not prepared for the measure; that even if it passed

the Commons it would not go through the Lords, and

if it did, and became law, that it would be repealed in
a twelvemonth. I stated briefly my objections, quoting

the words of Ewart, that an irrevocable punishment

required an infallible judge. He allowed that there

was a great deal in this. I said it was an awful con

sideration, that persons who had suffered this punish

ment had, in several instances, been discovered to be

innocent of the crime; that it did not act in the way

intended in the prevention of crime ; that it held out

a temptation to murder, in order to get rid of, perhaps,

      (485)
486  j. j. GURNEY'S VISIT TO AMERICA.  [1837.

the only witness. That we were, in this respect,
reproachfully behind the nations of the continent.
That although the proposed law was a great ameliora

tion, yet, as it did not go the whole length, I had

rather see the matter suspended for another year.

They received what I had to say very respectfully,

and I left them, relieved from the burden which had

been upon my mind."

   Things were very encouraging to his benevolent

mind at Lindfield :

   "Our boys' school is in a flourishing state, and we

have great comfort and satisfaction in this third year

of the experiment, so that we can now safely recom
mend it. We find that the habits of industry, in which

they are brought up, have an excellent moral effect,

and are also conducive to health and vigor."

   Joseph John Gurney being about to pay a religious
visit to North America, with the consent of the body
of Friends ; two days before his departure Mr. A. sent
him the following memorial of his affectionate interest

in his object :

  " The love and sympathy I feel for and with thee,

would have brought me to Liverpool instead of this
letter, if circumstances had not been too adverse to

the undertaking. May the sacrifice of all, which I

believe thou hast made, be accepted by our Divine
Master! and may He condescend to hear and to

answer the ardent prayers which thy fellow servants
are pouring out before Him, for thy preservation, and
for a blessing upon thy labors in His cause ! May He
preserve thee humble, and ever depending upon Him
self, in all thy movements and undertakings ; and then,
1837.]   FRIENDS' ADDRESS TO THE QUEEN.             4N7

whatever may be the permission of His providence, in

life or in death, thou wilt be sweetly and eternally His

Imvn, and He will give thee to feel that if is so. Re

member those precious words, ' know my sheep, and
am known of mine.' "

When our present sovereign ascended the throne,

the Friends presented an admirable address. Mr.

Allen describes the visit  to St. James' Palace:    doors
   " We were first shown   into the ante-room, the

of which were thrown open, and the young Queen
appeared sitting on the throne, at the further end of

the presence chamber, a row of gentlemen-at-arms
right and left. The Duke of Sussex was there, Lord

John Russell, the Marquis of Lansdowne, Lord
Grenelg, and several ladies. We advanced to within

a few paces of the foot of the throne, when I read the

address. The Queen listened with serious attention,

and seemed as though the contents made an impres

sion; she read her answer in a very clear and audible

manner, and we then withdrew. The whole proceed

ing was highly satisfactory."
   In the same month the following record occurs :

" Dined with the Duke of Sussex at Kensington
Palace; about thirty of the principal scientific charac

ters of the Royal Society there. The Duke was very
kind and affable, but there was too much of a feast ;
my heart was not in and was favored to keep my
         it,
place."
                I

                                            I:
   We have an interesting sketch of another scene
" Went to Seymour-street, to see F. Trembicka (recom
mended by the Baroness Drechsel); she implored me

to take her interesting little son, Leo, to educate.
488  LABORS FOR IMMEDIATE ABOLITION.  [1837.

was affected at the interview ; the poor boy took hold

of my hand, and entreated me to stay longer. I must

see what can be done."

   Accordingly in the next month, when at Lindfield,
he states : " I have engaged to receive Leo Trembicka
at this school, and he arrived here to day."

   About this time one of the pupils, who during a long
illness had given many proofs of the religious advan
tages he had received at the school, shortly before he
died, sent, in a letter to his friends, the following

cheering testimony to Mr. Allen:

  "I must conclude with dear love to my friend Wil

liam Allen, to whom I owe more than I can ever repay
for all his kindness. I would say more, but I cannot

get words to express my feelings."

   It was soon found that the apprenticeship clause in
the bill for Negro Emancipation had been greatly
abused by the planters. Mr. Allen was indefatigable

in his efforts, by interviews with Ministers and official
persons, and by the publication of information, to
break the bondage of the slave at once. 1 1 is account

of the spirit-stirring time is graphic :--
    " The cruelty and oppression of the planters of

 Jamaica, as exercised upon those poor sufferers, for

whose redemption from slavery we have paid twenty
millions, has been exposed in the face of clay. ' The
West Indies in 1837,' the result of a personal investi

gation by our friend Joseph Sturge, has created a
great sensation, which has been further increased by
the publication of parliamentary evidence. The Anti-
Slavery Associations in all quarters are in a high
degree of excitement, and petitions are loading the
1837.]         RACE BILL THROWN OUT.  489

tables of both Houses of Parliament, begging for the

abolition of the apprenticeship clause, and the com

plete establishment of the freedom of the negroes, on

the ist of Eighth Month, 1838. It seems that the
people of England will not now be satisfied with any

thing short of this. Delegates are in town from

Abolition Societies in England, Scotland, and Ireland.

They are daily at Brown's Hotel, Palace-yard, close

to the Parliament House. Lord Brougham, with

whom I have labored in the cause for more than thirty

years, is now exerting his powerful talents, with un

paralleled energy. Our position is taken m immediate

and perfect emancipation. We can have no more half

measures ; no more confidence in colonial assemblies;

the Rubicon is passed --there is no retreat."

  A race-course called the Hippodrome, near Notting-

hill, was about to be legalized. Mr. Allen believed

this would deeply taint the morals of the metropolis,

and he at once set to work with others to defeat its

success in the House of Lords. "On the i7thofMay,
I had," he says, " an interview with the Duke of Cleve

land : he is rather elderly, and a member of the turf;

spoke to him about the Hippodrome ; he says he will
oppose the bill in the House of Lords, for such things

as race-grounds should not be brought so near the

metropolis." The opposition was effectual, and the

bill thrown out.

Intelligence arrived from Russia that his old friend

Basil Papof, was confined in a monastery for his
religious opinions. " When," says Mr. A., " will the

rulers of this world cease from meddling with matters
                                   "
that  do  not  belong  to  them
                                 ?
493  INTERVIEW WITH MARSHAL SOULT.  [1838.

   When Marshal Soult was in this country, Mr. Allen
sought an interview to say a word in favor of the sup
pression of the slave trade. He received him very

kindly, and expressed a concurrence in the belief

Mr. A. expressed, that if these two countries cordially

united, they might, in a great measure, put down
slavery. He said it was his ardent wish, and that of
his nation, or government, to follow our example;
but, he added, they were waiting to see the result of

our experiment.
   Dr. Adam Clarke's Commentary on the Gospel of

St. John had for some time interested and instructed
him in his morning readings, and believing that others

might be equally benefitted, he published the Gospel,
with some of the Doctor's notes and a few of his own,

for general circulation.
   His old friend, poor Joseph Lancaster, was knocked

down in the street in New York, by a frightened
horse, on the 22nd of October, several of his ribs were
broken, and his head was much lacerated. He was so

much injured, that he died the next day; but J.

Gaylcr, an old pupil, who was with him, says, that he
had been for some time past 'ripening for heaven/
and that he died in a sweet state of mind. His last

letter was from Philadelphia, in which he announced
his intention of again visiting his native country, and
of renewing his old friendship with his first and best
friends, William Allen and William Corston, Esqrs.,

from whom he had received unbounded kindness, and

most important services."

   At the close of 1838, a young man in one of the

bands belonging to the troops stationed at Chatham,
1838.]  USEFUL RECREATIONS IN OLD AGE.  491

became decidedly pious, and embraced the principles
of Friends. He could no longer comply with the
regulations of the army, was cruelly treated, sent to
prison, and afterwards to the hospital as a lunatic,

where the reducing measures resorted to endangered
his life. Some friends raised twenty pounds to
procure his discharge, but his services in the band

were considered much too valuable for this sum to be
accepted. Mr. Allen took two friends with him and
went down to Chatham -- saw the colonel, and obtained

a promise from him that he-would put no obstacle in

the way of his discharge. The following day, Mr. A.
had an interview with Sir John Barrow, with whom

he was well acquainted, and in a short time, the young

man was got clearly off, to his inexpressible comfort.
   Though now in his 7oth year, and feeling many of

the infirmities of advancing age, Mr. Allen thought it

very desirable to cultivate an acquaintance with young

persons, and for this purpose engaged to devote one
evening in a month to their amusement and edifica

tion, and expressed afterwards the highest gratification

in those engagements.
   Rest seemed most desirable, but the principle of

disinterestedness, which was so manifest in his

conduct, received a stiU greater illustration in avowing

his determination to accompany Mrs. Fry and her

brother, Mr. S. Gurney, in a religious visit to the Con
tinent. On the 26th of February, 1840, they started
for Ostend, and held meetings for worship, and for
promoting benevolent institutions at Bruges and

Ghent. At Brussels they had an interview with the
King of Belgium, and pressed on his attention the
492  THE COMMUNITY OF TRAPHSTS.  [1840.

education and employment of the poor, and the aboli
tion of slavery. Mrs. Fry asked leave to introduce
her daughter, Mr. Allen's niece, to which the King
"most pleasantly agreed." Many most important

meetings were held, and information on important
topics diffused through the upper ranks of Belgic
society. On the pth of March, Mr. Gurney and Mrs.

Fry set off for Holland, and Mr. Allen, Mr. Josiah

Forster, and his niece, went to visit the agricultural

colonies near Tournhout.

   " On our way we stopped for J. F. to visit a com

munity of Trappists ; he reports that there are fifty
of them who never go out of the inclosure, but remain

there until their death, submitting, in the mean time,

to many austerities. They dig their own graves, and
during some part of the day are engaged in manual

labor on the farm ; they have but one meal in twenty-
four hours. They go to bed at six or seven in winter,
and eight in summer, and rise in winter at twelve and
in summer at two, are engaged in prayer till four, and
have prayers six times a day besides. They are
enjoined never to speak to each other, except ' Souv-

enez vous de la mort.' A skull is fixed against the

wall, with a skeleton hand, pointing to a dial plate.
They wear a coarse woollen shirt next them, which is
only changed once in three weeks. The porter, on

opening the door for J. F., fell upon his knees before

he entered into conversation with them."

   The party proceeded to the Hague, where members

among the higher ranks were invited to breakfast and

other meals at their hotel, in order to drop good seeds
into their hearts ; and not only here, but throughout
1840.] CONVERSATION WITH THE PRINCE ROYAL. 403

the entire journey, to excite an interest on subjects of
public utility, which was the great object of their jour
ney. The same course was adopted at Hanover.
Mr. Allen tells us :--

   " We waited by appointment upon the Prince Royal,
who is blind ; had it not been for this blemish, he
would have been a fine-looking young man. The
conversation turned upon prisons, war, liberty of con
science, the Scriptures, slavery, etc. I was grieved to
hear some of his sentiments. He gave full credence
to what a Scotch lady from the West Indies had told
him of the happiness of the negroes in their state of

slavery, and he considers that the prisoners here are

treated too well. Upon these subjects and some others,

I labored to impress him with the truth. In reference

to the Scriptures I maintained that our duty to God

and to man was so clearly laid down in them that those
that run may read ; he, however, seemed to think that

it was necessary to have them explained, and I left the

poor young man with a heavy heart."

   The interview produced the following letter :--

        " To GEORGE, PRINCE ROYAL OF HANOVER.
" MAY IT PLEASE THE PRINCE,

   " The interview with which my dear friend Samuel

Gurney and I were favored to have with thee yester

day has excited feelings of sympathy which it is difficult
for me to find words to express. May the present
permission of Divine Providence lead thee, dear Prince,
to apply with still increasing earnestness for the out
pouring of the Holy Spirit, which the Son of God
encouraged his followers to believe that the Father
494  LETTER TO THE PRINCE.         [1840.

would give to those who ask Him, see Luke xi, 13.I
The grace of God, which comes by Jesus Christ, was
net confined to the apostles and primitive disciples,it,

but it is given to every true believer in the present

day, as the Comforter, the sure Guide, the infallible

Teacher.

  "If we are desirous above all things to be found

performing the will of God, without which we can

never be permanently happy, and are endeavoring to
keep the precepts and commandments of Christ, then
will our duties be made plain and clear to us by the

Holy Spirit ; precious indeed are the promises made by

our blessed Redeemer himself to those who give proof
of their love to Him, by keeping his commandments,

as we may read in John xiv, 21, 23, 25, 26. To the

teaching of the Holy Spirit I would most affectionately

recommend the Prince ; it will lead him to discover
what the divine will concerning him is, will give him

strength to perform and enable him to avoid those

things which bring condemnation and sorrow.
   " Thy exalted situation exposes thee to many and

peculiar temptations and difficulties, which render the
injunction of our Divine Master to 'Watch and pray'

of the very utmost importance to be observed. It was

well remarked by the illustrious Judge Hale, that an
inward attention to the influences of divine grace will

enable a man to conduct himself wisely even in the
concerns of this life, and by such attention many of
those dangers to which we are liable in this state of

existence may be avoided.
    " have greatly desired that thou mighte^t deeply

study the precepts of our dear Lord and Saviour, as
1840.]    INTERVIEW WITH THE QUEEN.                                    495

contained in the Scriptures of Truth, and make them
the rule of thy conduct, with prayer that they may be
applied by the same Holy Spirit which gave them forth
to thy particular case, under every changing circum
stance of thy life; then wilt thou be concerned to

promote and encourage that righteousness which ex-
alteth a nation, wheresoever, and in whomsoever it
may appear, and to discountenance and put down
whatever has a tendency to demoralization and vice.
Thus thou mayst become in the divine hand one of the
greatest blessings to thy country.

   " My dear friend and his sister, Elizabeth J. Fry,

join me in the warmest wishes for thy temporal and
eternal well-being ; and be pleased to accept them from
a sincere friend to the House of Brunswick.

                                                    " WILLIAM- ALLEN.

   "Hanover, 6th of Fourth Month (April), 1840."

The following day        t"hePyrinwceentGteoorthgee,"paolabcseervbeys  invi-
                                                                        Mr.
tatio of  the Queen.
Allen, "  came into the  room, led by the Princess Albert

of Swartzburg, daughter of the Queen by a former
marriage. I had a good deal of conversation with the

Prince, and this time he appeared really amiable, and

far nearer in spirit than in our former interview. The

Princess seems a sensible person, and I entrusted /ur

with my letter to read to the Prince."
   " When the Queen came in, she apologized for not

being ready, saying it was in consequence of her

necessary attendance upon the King. She received

us in a very respectful, amiable manner, and appeared

in a sweet frame of mind. She had much conversation
496  CONVERSATION WITH NOBILITY.  [1840.

with E. J. F., who pressed upon her attention the sub
ject of ladies' committees to visit the prisons, and she
gave her full sanction to the measure. We were nearly
an hour at the palace. The ladies in attendance, and

indeed all present, seemed under tender feelings.
Glory to him through whom alone all good comes,

and blessed forever be his adorable name!"

    Arriving at Magdeburg, they visited the prison, and
.dispersed Mrs. Fry's "Address to Prisoners" among

its inmates. Proceeding to Berlin, they took up their
quarters in the Hotel de RussiS. Here their conver

sazioni were attended by many of the highest nobility,
and influential persons of every grade in politics and
religion were anxious to listen to their valuable com
munications. With the Crown Prince and Princess,
the present King and Queen of Prussia, they had fre

quent interviews. A bond of indissoluble friendship

was formed between the Princess Wilhelm, a woman

of exalted piety, and Mrs. Fry, which death alone
severed, to be renewed in that world of light into
which they have both entered. Two years after this
date, when the writer was at Berlin, the savor of their
meetings held in the saloon of the hotel for worship --
the untiring energy displayed by this little band of

pilgrims to mitigate human misery, and to diffuse

Christian knowledge -- the graceful, tender, and disin
terested manner in which their experience was given --
rested on the minds of those with whom they mingled
with the freshness of unabated joy.

   Mr. Allen determined to address the King by letter
on the subject of the persecuted Mennonites, who had

been banished from Prussia for their religious opinions.
1840.]  ADDRESS TO THE KING OF PRUSSIA.  497

After asking permission " for three natives of England
to claim the King's attention fora short time," and stat
ing the chief objects of their visit, Mr. Allen ob
serves :--

   " The accounts we have heard of the pious disposi
tion of the King, and the proofs we have seen, as
already stated, embolden us to prefer our humble
petition on behalf of some of his subjects, to whose
case our attention has been drawn, in a very lively
manner, on account of some hundreds of Prussians

passing through England to a foreign country, in order
to enjoy the privilege of worshipping God in a manner
which they think most acceptable to him, and their
bounden duty. We were much struck with the reply
which some of these made, when questioned as to the
cause of their emigration, whether it was political or

not. They seemed hurt that such a question should

be asked, and earnestly stated that they were ready to

lay down their lives for their King, and would wish to
remain in their country if they might be permitted to

worship God in their own way. Now, perhaps some
of these people may have acted imprudently, and
given just cause of offence to the King, -- and so far

we can give no opinion ; but, simply on the bare fact
of their feelings on the subject of religion, may we

venture to entreat the King to reconsider their case.
We believe that the way in which a man may think it

right to worship his God is a matter entirely between

God and himself, for no man can answer for another

at that tribunal before which we shall all be finally
judged. And we would most respectfully query of

the King, whether, if his poor subject be a good hus-
498                 THE KINO'S REPLY.            [1840.

band, father, and neighbor, doing injury to none, but

all the good he can to those about him ; if he cheer

fully pays his taxes, and faithfully supports the govern
ment that protects him, -- whether he might not be

safely permitted to act for himself in a case in which

he alone is responsible. Bear with us, O King, while,

in Christian simplicity, we lay this matter before thee ;

for we would not have ventured to do it from any other

consideration but that of religious duty."

   Soon afterwards   the King    sent  a letter  in reply,
addressed to " Mr.  Allen, Mrs.        and Mr.   Gurney,"
                                 Fry,

and thus alludes to the Mennonites :

   " In regard to your petition for those erring Lutheran
separatists, who, from misunderstanding and ill-will,
have thought right to leave their country, you will

have learned, through those I appointed to inform you,

the real state of the case ; that every means of gentle
ness and kind remonstrance was urged in vain, to

convince them that they left their country without just
grounds, as their liberty of conscience was not inter

fered with, but that their extravagant demands could

not be complied with, being perfectly inconsistent with
the order of the church. " FREDERICK. WILHELM."

   May the present sovereign of that wide'y extended
territory learn the principles of civil and religious
liberty in a better school; for if "the order of the
church" is to be the rule, beyond which religious

liberty is not to pass, every one who thinks differently
from that established, but often unscriptural " order,"

must be persecuted.
1840.]    RELICS OF LUTHER AT ERFURT.                                 499

  On the 25th of April they proceeded to Wittemberg,

Leipsic, Dresden, Weimar, and Gotha, prosecuting

their enterprise in a similar spirit of liberality and

devotion. At Erfurt they stopped to see the Augustine

Convent in which Luther first began his career. The

building is now converted into an orphan house, but

his apartment is preserved as nearly as possible in its

original state, and contains his portrait, Bible, and

other relics. Here he spent several years of his life ;

at the altar in the chapel he read his first mass, and

here, perhaps in this very cell, he first studied the

Bible, a copy of which he never saw until he was

twenty years of age, when he picked up one by acci

dent in a corner of the library.

When at Eisenach, they went to the castle of Wart-

burgh, celebrated as the asylum of Luther for ten

months, to which he was taken prisoner by the device

of his friend, the Elector of Saxony, where he passed

for a young nobleman, under the assumed name of

"Junker   tGheisorsgo"litu(dSeq,uiwrehicGheohregec)a. lledDuhrisin"g  the time
                                                                      Patmos,"
spent in

he wrote several works, and completed a large portion

of his translation of the Bible. The chamber which

Luther occupied appears to have undergone little

change; it contains his table, three-legged stool, and

inkstand; he has himself described, in his writings,

the attacks of the devil, to which in some of his solitary

hours he felt himself subjected ; and tradition says,

that he repulsed these attacks by throwing the inkstand

at the head of his adversary. In confirmation of this

assertion the ink-spots arc shcnvn upon the wall.
500  ANOTHER CONTINENTAL TOUR.  [1840.

   Returning by Cologne and Antwerp, they arrived
in London on the 6th of May.

   The next month Mr. Allen attended the World's
Convention of the Anti-Slavery Society. The vener

able Thomas Clarkson, infirm and aged as he was,
had yet strength enough to come up to London, and
was placed in the chair as president, on the memorable
occasion. In order to spare his feelings, an intimation
was given that it would be desirable to omit the
demonstration of applause, so usual in popular assem
blies ; and the solemnity of the pause which took place

before the business began, was far more striking than

any noisy expression.
   During the month of July, Mr. Allen set out for

Ireland, to promote agricultural plans for the laboring
poor, in the county of Galway, where two young
persons, who had been at his school at Lindfield, were

residing. Though it was a considerable exertion, he
seemed well satisfied that the object of his journey had
been accomplished, and began immediately to prepare
himself for another tour in the south of Europe. This
occupied three months, and enabled him to revisit the
Ban de la Roche, Stuttgard, Hoffman Orphan School,
at Kornthal, and the Donaumoos. At Constance he

saw the large square stone, on which the martyr, John
Huss, stood, when he was degraded and condemned
to be burnt ; and, sighing, said, " this cruelty was per
petrated by persons, who, under the mask of religion,
claimed the right to exercise ecclesiastical authority."
Geneva, Berne, Basle, Carlsruhe, and other parts

icceived his friendly counsel. At Ghent he had

several interviews with the English workmen, and
1840.]  THE GOLDEN HOMAGE MEDALS.  501

completed the arrangements for a school for their

children, and a library for their own use.
   On the 28th of October he again raised a tribute of

thanksgiving to the Great Preserver of men, at Stoke

Newington.
   In December he was gratified by receiving from the

present King of Prussia a letter addressed to Mrs. E.
Fry, Mr. Allen, and Mr. Gurney, in which he returns
his best thanks for our kind letter, " united with the

sincere wish," he says, "that the 'three golden homage

medals enclosed hereby, may afford you some pleasure,
and be a constant remembrance of me.' "

   The year was closed by the good man with the fol

jlowing acknowledgment of the Divine goodness :
  " Twelfth Month 1 st. --This year I have spent five

months on the continent, and travelled about five

thousand miles by sea and land, and I have gratefully
to acknowledge the goodness of our Almighty Pre

server, who supported me and kept my spirits from

utterly sinking in low seasons. Though sometimes I

am afraid to call myself the Lord's servant, and am

almost ready to wonder that I should feel peace in

attempting publicly to advocate his blessed cause, yet

I may acknowledge that through the influence of His

Holy Spirit, He has, at some favored seasons, enabled
me to preach His everlasting gospel to my own hum

bling admiration.

  " O, I have very distinctly felt that the power and

ability were solely from Him, and that no merit
attaches to my poor self. To Him be all the praise
of His own work !"
                     CHAPTER XX.

DEATH OF HIS NIECE HIS LAST ILLNESS, AND HAPPY
                                        DEATH.

FOR a long time Mr. Allen's house at Stoke Newing-
ton had very much resembled that of Lazarus at
Bethany. There the Saviour's presence was oft felt
and enjoyed by the three favored spirits who com
muned together of his love and grace. His two
nieces watched over him with the tenderest care, and
his own gentle and loving spirit repaid them from the
stores of his large religious experience and scientific
knowledge. Few families were more happy, but, as
in the family at Bethany, death hurled his dart at the
most unlikely of the group.

   In the first three m nths of the year 1841, the
influenza was exceedingly prevalent and fatal. One
of his nieces (Eliza) was attacked by the epidemic.
He thought her recovering, and she did not think her
self sufficiently unwell to have medical advice. " But
on the 29th March," says Mr. Allen, " about six
o'clock in the morning, her sister Lucy was struck
with a change in the dear creature when she coughed,

and ran down to call me. I was dressed and in my

study, and it is remarkable, that in my private retire

ment before the Lord, which was then over, I had

                                                    (502)
1841.]     DEATH OF ELIZA BRADSHAW.                  503

prayed, upon my knees, for these two dear objects of

my care and solicitude; but little did I think that my

precious E. was then about to be gathered to her

everlasting rest. I ran to the bed-side, -- she seemed

in a sweet sleep, but was very pale ; it was evident

that life was ebbing out, and she scarcely breathed

after I entered the room. There was neither sigh nor

movement, -- not a feature was disturbed ; a heavenly

serenity marked her placid countenance, which was

lovely in death. Surely there never was a sweeter or

an easier transition from a world of trial and conflict

to the regions of love and bliss ! I firmly believe she

sleeps in  Jesus  :  and  O, that  my last  end may  be like
hers ! "

Her remains were interred at Stoke Newington,

next to those of Mr. Allen's mother. Mrs. Fry was

helped in an extraordinary manner at the solemn

service, and even the loving uncle spoke for a short

time at the grave from the precious and heart-reviving

words, " Where I am, there shall also my servant be."

His own health seemed as good as might be

expected for one in his seventy-second year, who had
never refused to labor. In his " Lindfield Reporter"

he continued to write papers on subjects of immediate

interest, and distribute them widely. Religious per

secution found in him so decided an enemy, that to

engage his pen, and, when able, his energies, against

any ecclesiastical oppression, it was only necessary to

prove an individual a sufferer on account of his relig

Aious opinions, whatever those opinions might be.

long and able article was written by him, to defend

Mr. Baines of Leicester, who was imprisoned for the
504  INFIRMITY AND PIETY IN AGE.                        [1842.

non-payment of Church rates, and presented to Lord

J"oIhnsupRpuossseellw, ethsehawllrinteort  telling him  at the same time,
                                           agree upon
                                                        that subject." It

was, however, received very kindly. He also wrote

and published a letter of great interest and power, to
the King of Norway and Sweden, on behalf of Friends

and members of other religious denominations, who

had been bitterly persecuted for not submitting to the
tyrannous rule of the priests, and which, by assisting

to rouse public opinion, contributed to obtain eventu

ally more liberty for the oppressed.

Occasionally he took the chair at public meetings,

'and assisted to gain the ears and votes of members for

important bills on education and the cause of humanity,

which were under discussion in the house ; but the
chief of his time was given to ministerial efforts, and

friendly association with those to whom his influence

might be beneficial. Lord Brougham appears to have

been a frequent visitor at Stoke Newington, some

times coming to dinner without invitation, and cheer

ing his old friend with his vivacious conversation and

sparkling talents ; pious foreigners also, were sure to
find-a welcome, and had almost learned to look upon
Mr. Allen's house as their home.

   But as his infirmities became more visible, commu

nion with God was more prized and enjoyed. At the
commencement of the year 1842, he records, --

  I" am much oftener than the returning day looking

towards the end of all things here, and fervent prayers
arise for an increase of faith and love. O Lord, make

me and keep me thine, in time and in eternity ! Strong
cries ascend, by night and by day, to our Advocate
1842.J  THE MATURITY" OF HIS GRACES.                                                     505

with the Father, through whose atoning sacrifice

alone, pardon and reconciliation can be experienced.

  " I am now in my seventy-second year, and my

bodily powers are gradually failing. O, that the inner
man may be renewed cay by day ! "

   Every act of life seemed more than ever tinged with
the celestial rays of his setting sun, and all who came
in contact with him heard and saw that his conversa

tion was in Heaven, from whence he looked for the

Saviour.

   His present Majesty the King of Prussia having
visited this country in the early part of this year, the

Friends drew up an address, and presented it to him
at Mrs. Fry's, at Upton, during a short visit which his
Majesty made to this honored saint. " On my inform

ing him," says Mr. Allen, "that I held in my hand the

address, and inquiring whether he would be pleased
to hear he immediately replied, 'with the greatest
pleasure.'" Mr. Allen then read and observes,

   " Much solemnity prevailed during the reading, and
was evidently felt by the King, who made short
remarks from time to time, denoting his approbation.
After was finished, ventured to add that this pas

sage of Holy Writ had much impressed my mind,
 Them that honor me, will honor, saith the Lord.' "

   Though Mr. Allen's whole life had given evidence
of singularly close walk with God, and preparation

for any event which God might bring upon him, yet

his friends could not now help observing a maturity
of humility and faith which betokened that his heav
enly Father was about to call him home. Amidst
many symptoms of declining strength which he ex-
'
     a

           it
               it,

                        II

                                                            it,

                                                                                      a
506  HIS TRUST IN GOD.              [1842.

perienced in the summer and autumn of this year,
grace seemed to grow stronger--as the outward man
perished, the inward man was literally renewed day by

da"y.I feel," he observes, " deeply that I have nothing

to trust to in going out of life but the mercy of God
in Christ Jesus, the Great Shepherd of the sheep.
' Not by works of righteousness which we have done,
but according to his mercy He saved us by the wash
ing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy
Ghost.' "

   And it is pleasant to know that his companion in
tribulation and labor for Jesus Christ, Stephen Grellet,
when he grew grey in his Master's service, experienced
similar support from the doctrines which for many

years he had faithfully and lovingly preached before

kings and beggars. In a letter to Mr. Allen dated the
I4th of March, 1842, he gives a description of his

state and anticipations :--" In body and mind I am
but feeble, but I neither repine nor sink below the

hope that the glorious Gospel of Christ inspires ;

rather shall I tell thee that these are days both of

building up and of trying the certainty and efficacy of
our christian foundation, Christ, our rock. Let us
strive to have our dwelling on Him, then the floods
and the winds will beat in vain."

        however, the flesh was weak through age, the
spirit was willing; for Mr. Allen's whole soul seemed
earnestly engaged in endeavoring to fulfil the com
mand of his Lord, " Occupy till come." In consid
erable indisposition he attended meetings of his own
religious body in Northamptonshire and Sussex, and
If,

                                 I
1842.J  SERIOUS ILLNESS AT LINDFIELD.               507

returned home much exhausted. When those who

loved him ventured to suggest that he must relinquish

henisgargeepmlyenwtass,w"hNicoh  appeared too much  for his strength,
                                 ; we must be more  diligent in pro

moting the Lord's work on the earth."

In October, at Lindfield, he was seized with severe

illness, which greatly enfeebled his frame and circum

scribed the energies of his active mind, yet the chief
features of his piety here manifested themselves --

confidence and peace. When his tenderly attached

relative expressed fears for the result, he would reply
with inexpressible calmness, " Let us trust ; we shall
be helped." Under the conviction which most of his

friends entertained that he would not recover, his much

loved friend Mr. Joseph John Gurney addressed to him
the following exquisitely beautiful expression of his
sympathy and affection : --

                       " Norwich, Ninth Month 26th, 1842.
" MY DEARLY-BELOVED FRIEND W1LLIAM ALLEN.

  I" The accounts which have received of thy illness

are such that I can hardly venture to hope that thou
wilt receive this letter ; or, if received that thou wilt

be able to hear it read or read it. But in the possi

bility of a change for the better I can hardly do other

wise than express the deep and tender interest my

wife and I feel respecting thee, and how it will gladden
our hearts should we be permitted to hear of thy being

restored to thy friends and to the church. If not, we

are assured that all will be well, and that a glorious

entrance is prepared for thy immortal spirit, through
508 SYMPATHIZING LETTER OF J. J. GURNEY. [1842.

the blood of Jesus, into his everlasting kingdom of

rest and peace.

   " Thou hast been a kind and faithful father in the

truth to me ; and heartily do I love thee. So long as
memory lasts I shall never forget thy kindness ; and
sweet is the hope that, deeply unworthy as I am of

the least of the Lord's mercies, we shall spend an

eternity together in peace and joy unutterable. It is

unspeakably precious to have this hope, and to know
it to be as an anchor of our souls, sure and steadfast.

Yet I desire to speak of such things with diffidence,

and even with fear and trembling.

   "As for thee, dearest friend, thou shalt ' see the King

in his beauty, (as I verily believe), thou shalt behold

the land that is very far off. Thine eyes shall see Je
rusalem a quiet habitation. Not one of the stakes
thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of her
cords be broken. There the glorious Lord shall be
unto thee a place of broad rivers and streams,' even
streams of joy which shall flow for evermore.

   " It will be very sweet to me shouldest thou be able
to receive this token of my warm love and gratitude,
and of my humble confidence in the Lord on thy ac
count. But if it be ordered otherwise, these lines will
serve to assure our dear friend and sister L. B. of our
hearty sympathy under this fresh trial of her faith.

                 " I am ever thy attached friend,

  "And younger brother in Christ, (as I humbly trust),
                                        "J. J. GURNEY."

   When able to think, the impression he had of the

design of this affliction is thus expressed to a friend: --
1842.]  RECOVERY TO HEALTH.  509

   " I believe this illness is sent in mercy to me, to

wean me more and more from all things here below,
and to make me look more steadily to the end of

time."

   It pleased God, however, to restore his health so as
to enable him to resume some of his former avocations.

Some in which he had long taken pleasure, and which
had given rapturous delight to others, were now to be

abandoned forever ; yet the privation was borne with

sweet submission to the divine will.

  " I have been considering respecting the continuance

of the lectures (to children at school) ; it seems now
quite out of the question for me to resume the occu

pation, after having been engaged in delivering them

between forty and fifty years."

   To those who were much in his company it was
refreshing to hear him speak of the mercies by which

he was surrounded, and cheerfully turn from his
increasing infirmities to his unmerited blessings. How
ever low and weak he felt himself, the words of consola

tion flowed as from a fountain to the afflicted and
mourners in Zion. He would forget his own sorrows
in comforting them. In worship, the influence of his
humble, reverent frame of mind, begat corresponding

emotions in those who heard his petitions. A few of the

sentences uttered in his last public prayer at Stoke
Newington were caught and recorded, -- not so much for
their peculiarity as for the impression they produced
by the fervor of devotion and great brokenness of
spirit with which they were accompanied.

   " Permit us, O, Heavenly Father ! we beseech Thee,
to plead for the children of this people ; that thou
510  SENTENCES FROM ONE OF HIS PRAYERS. [1843.

wouldst be pleased afresh to extend to them the visita
tions of thy love. Draw them, and attract them to

thyself, make them thy children ; stain, we beseech
thee, in their view, all the attractions of this world.

Preserve those that love thee, through all, and grant

that by thy power they may be kept from falling, and

finally be presented faultless before the throne of thy

glory, with exceeding joy !"

   During the year 1843 he divided his time between
Lindfield and Stoke Newington, withdrawing from

public engagements, and chiefly confining himself to

attendance at meetings on the Lord's day. In October
Mr. Samuel Gurney paid him a visit at Lindfield which,

while it gave much gratification to the invalid, is thus

described by Mr. Gurney: --

  " I look back with pleasure and satisfaction to the
few hours I spent at Lindfield yesterday. To witness

our endeared friend in harbor, and favored with a

portion of heavenly peace, is cause for thankfulness to

all his friends."

Two days afterwards he attended meeting, and re

marked that it was a good time. In returning home

he visited an invalid, with whom he conversed cheer

fully, and the day being very fine, he walked into his

garden and field. He observed to his niece how par

ticularly comfortable he felt, adding, '' I am afraid, my

dear, we are almost too happy" In reply to an observa

tpieoance,rehsepescatidin,g"  the  favor it was   to   experience   such
                                                 no   wish to stay  here,
                              Yes  \ but I have

except for a few of you, who are very dear to me." He

spent much of the evening in reading, but the next

day became very seriously indisposed, and, from his
1843.]  LETTER FROM STEPHEN GRELLET.  511

 sudden prostration of strength, little hopes were enter
 tained of his recovery. During his illness, affectionate
 consideration for those around him strikingly marked
 his character, and though extreme weakness at times
 clouded his mental perceptions, the badge of disciple-
 ship was uniformly the clothing of his spirit ; concern
 ing which one of his friends remarked :--

    " It is very comforting --very beautiful, to see love

 and trust continuing, when all other powers are dulled,
 or hidden, by the decay of the perishing tabernacle.

It seems to realize the remark upon the eternal nature
of charity, or love --that when prophecies shall fail,

and tongues shall cease, and knowledge shall vanish

away, faith, hope, and charity may still abide ; and, it
is added, ' the greatest of these is charity.' "

    Several special comforts were granted him in his

enfeebled condition : one, which he gratefully acknowl

edged, was having such a quiet retreat as Lindfield
" in passing away ;" another, respecting which he made

nearly the last record in his diary, was --"being affec
tionately cared for by my niece Lucy Bradshaw, who
has long smoothed the path of my declining years,
and done all in her power to supply the place of my

only child."

   One morning when he felt low and sinking, his

spirit was revived and cheered by a letter from his
beloved friend, Stephen Grellet, who, like himself,
seemed to stand on the margin of glory, to look in

and claim its joys, through the Redeemer, as his own.
   " The tidings respecting the great feebleness of thy

outward man, can but deeply affect me ; for my attach

ment to the whole of thce, the outward man, and inner
     512  SECOND LETTER FROM J. J. GURNEY.  [1843.

     also, is strong. In this twofold capacity, we have felt

     great fellowship and nearness ; and .have very harmo

     niously shared bodily and spiritual hardships, and
     consolations not few, from the presence of the dear

     Master, our blessed Redeemer. My soul at times,
                                   is,

                                                            ;
     contrited under the remembrance of these seasons

     and behold also, gratefully, how very, near to us was
is is
the Lord, in times of perplexity and suffering, yea, not
  aI
     less than in those of consolation and joy.
        " To me, to hear of thy near indwelling in the Lord,

          great joy. If thy steps, in carrying about now thy

enfeebled outward man, are faltering, thy inner strength

     so renewed, as to enable thee, with an attention not

divided, as heretofore, by very important and benevo

lent engagements, to walk closely with thy God. In

thinking very sweetly of thee, have remembered
          I

Enoch, with the consoling view, that bye and bye,

when these faltering limbs can no longer bear up the

outward frame, thy dear spirit will be translated into

that better habitation, prepared for thee by thy dear

Saviour. Till this blessed period arrives, that saving

help, which has enabled thee in many ways to serve
God and man, now also enables thee, and will to the

end enable thee, to love Him, and thereby, also, to

glorify Him. The power, the opportunity for the
occupation of the Lord's excellent gifts, doth fail --
will cease but that to love Him, to His redeemed
          it
                ;
                                                                        ?
                                                     It
                                                                        is
                                                                                   a
                                                                                      it
ones, continues for ever. Has not this capacity in

creased with thee, my dear friend           foretaste

of what will be in its fulness during the ages of eter

nity."

     Nor did his endeared friend Joseph John Gurncy
1843.]  GOOD NEWS FROM AFRICA.  513

forget him, when it appeared yet more evident than
when he wrote before, that the aged pilgrim had well
nigh crossed the waters of Jordan. The following
expressions of faith and love, though very grateful to
his feelings, almost overpowered his tender spirit :

  ."My heart is truly with thee, and I trust living

desires do ascend for thy support and consolation ;

and yet, I hardly know how to ask anything, either
for thee or for our dearest sister Fry ; because I feel

such an unmoved and unmovable confidence that you

are both under the special and all sufficient protection
of Israel's Shepherd, who is graciously touched with
a feeling of your infirmities, ever lives to plead your
cause, and will, we fully believe, administer to you, at
the end of your mortal race, whenever it may come, a
' far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.'
The Lord be with thee, even very near to thy inmost

soul, my endeared friend ; and rest assured, that as

the mountains are round about Jerusalem so is He,

and so will He be, round about thee from henceforth,

even for ever."
  A letter arrived from Africa also, from a young man

of color, who was trained at the Borough-road School,

conveying very interesting and important intelligence
of the progress of education and commercial enterprise.

The good old man on hearing it had all his ancient
feelings of interest on behalf of that country revived,

and said, " It seems as though the fruits of some of
my labors to promote the commerce of the natives

were now appearing."
   Living faith in a risen Saviour, who appeared in the

presence of God for him, and was about to show him
514       MR. ALLEN'S DEATH AND FUNERAL.                 [1843.

His glory, gave vigor, not transport -- for to that he
                             inclined --to his
was not   constitutionally                      humble   spirit.
           been sustained,"    he remarked, "   in this  illness
" I have
beyond what I could have expected --nothing but a

sense of the Lord's presence could support at such a

time." On another occasion, when there appeared a

little struggle against despondency, he exclaimed :

"The Lord never will forsake those who trust in Him,"

and with an energy peculiarly his own, he added, "He

never will" The Scriptures were a fund of joy and

peace to him. His soul was refreshed and animated

when passages were read, which described the conflicts

of those who had fought the good fight, finished their

course, and kept the faith. Portions of the memoirs
of " Early Friends," and of eminently pious persons,

who had struggled against the tide of fashion and

prejudice, and with the spiritual weapons of the Gospel

fought for the emancipation of mind and of religion,

when read to him, gave a peculiar joy to the anticipa

tion of heaven itself, and he would say, " I feel com

forted in the hope of being one day united to all those

worthies for ever" But as the presence of Christ here

was his greatest joy -- that presence in unclouded vision

and actual abiding companionship was his glorious

hope. Hence death had lost its terrors, and the very
anticipation of in consequence of what followed, did
          it,

                          I
                                                                                      '
                                               I
     " Gild his bed of death with beams from heaven."

   The last recorded words he uttered, with tears of
joy rolling down his cheeks, were, " Oh, how often
think of those gracious words of the Saviour, That
they may be with me where am.' " Into that un-
1843.]  LAST MARK OF RESPECT.  515

speakable bliss his redeemed spirit entered on the 3Oth
of December, 1843.

   His remains were interred at Stoke Newington,
where a large assembly paid them the last mark of
respect, and several ministers among the body of

Christians to which he belonged officiated. There
his sleeping dust remains till the morning of the

resurrection, when the Saviour he loved and served

shall summon him to His presence, and to the general
assembly and church of the first-born, gathered out
of every nation, tongue, and people, to enjoy in their
society the " full flowings of gospel love," which he

lived to propagate and illustrate.
                     CHAPTER XXI.

          SUMMARY OF MR. ALLEN'S CHARACTERISTICS.

   IT is presumed that few can read the preceding
records of the piety and labors of Mr. Allen without
forming a high estimate of his character. That which

gives it importance and value is its adaptedness to

ordinary life. It is a character which can be formed,

and in most respects imitated. Wh.ere similar native
genius does not exist, or opportunities for usefulness
among the upper ranks of society are not afforded by
Providence, imitation in these departments of his
career would be folly. These, however, were accidents
in Mr. Allen's life: they did not constitute his moral
power. Some persons, by their inventive and imag
inative faculties, are capable of placing forgotten or
novel objects in so strong a light, and with such new
shades of beauty, as to command the admiration and
rouse the attention of thoughtful minds ; but their
moral character is the fly in the pot of ointment, either
contradicting their theory or preventing the develop
ment of its usefulness. Others are thrown into regal
and noble society, but their chief object is to introduce
themselves or their friends to station and wealth. They
do not appreciate a kingdom founded in righteousness,
and therefore seek not opportunities to sow the seeds

                                                   (516)
HIS FILIAL AFFECTION.  517

of godliness in the hearts of rulers. It is possible to

be pre eminent in talent and correspondingly injurious
to society -- to be promoted to power, and yet, like the
Upas, poison all within the circle of influence by pro
fligate example and pestiferous sentiment. Lacking

moral and religious power, they lack everything which
in the estimation of Deity constitutes true greatness,
or is capable of becoming, otherwise than by a divine
alchemy, a blessing to their generation. Mr. Allen's
moral power was the secret of his greatness. Whether

he was engaged in scientific analysis, --or exhibiting
to delighted audiences the chemical wonders of our
beautiful world -- or pressing on statesmen the claims
of the enslaved --or guiding youth in the paths of
mental culture --or presenting to the afflicted the con
solation of the gospel ; this gave him weight in society,

furnished his motive for action, and brought so eminent

a blessing on his labors. As righteousness exaltetli a

nation, so it does each individual who dwells in it.
" Show thyself a man," said David to Solomon, a man

in dignity and courage. How? By daring "to keep
the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways,

to keep his statutes, and his judgments, and his com

mandments, and his testimonies, that thou mayst

prosper in all that thou doest and whithersoever thou
turnest thyself." This precept Mr. Allen put to the
test, and found, as millions before him, its ennobling

and elevating influence.

   His filial affection was strongly manifested. His
mother was a woman of great mental capacity and

fervent piety. Her letters are models of maternal af
fection, and of just views of truth and duty. No doubt
                         HIS FILIAL AFFECTION.

she had strong claims on his attention and regard ;
but all mothers, even of equal attainments, have not
similar regard from their sons. When the world
smiles, and Providence elevates the son, the mother is
oft well nigh forgotten. Mr. Allen's affection for his
mother remained to her death, more like the romantic
ardor of a youthful lover to one whom he intended to
make his bride, than the mere expression of filial duty.
Her letters were treasured as oracles. One or more
of them had a place in a pocket book, which was his
constant companion, ready to be used as occasion re
quired. Her counsels were not only listened to, but
obeyed, with the deference of a child. Before he
undertook any important embassy, his mother's advice
was sought and followed, not only when a youth, but
when advanced in years. Her comfort must be pro
moted at any sacrifice. No duties, however imperative,
kept from him the systematic and constant visitation of
his honored parent. When he was in Russia, walking
along the avenues of flowers in the Princess Mestcher-
sky's palace, and feeling the equal temperature of her
apartments, his mind reverts to his mother, and her
comfort, and longs that she had a similar provision.
When she was advanced in years, and had become a
widow, he removed her from a distance near to his

own habitation, that she might be more under his
watchful care. His visits were those of a minister of

consolation ; he sits in silence, and they are "sweetly
comforted together." He kneels and worships, and
sits in silence again, and the time passes like the days
of heaven upon the earth ! O ! that all mothers -- that all
pious mothers -- were blessed with sons like William
AN EXAMPLE TO YOUNG MEN.  519

Allen ! If the reader is a young man, let him not

suppose that these filial attentions are the traits of a
little mind. An empty vain youth cannot afford such
a specimen of exalted virtue. It is the characteristic
of a noble, generous, and elevated intellect. Our Lord
and Saviour, in the midst of his sufferings, did not
forget his mother: --"Woman behold thy son -- Son
behold thy mother," were the cheering words which

saluted her ears, and proved that she still held a place
in his memory and his heart. The happiness of such

honored relatives is promoted chiefly by little atten
tions. Not simply by seeing them on fielddays, or at
family gatherings, but by evidences of daily remem
brances, which, though small, like the dew-drops on
the flower, refresh and vivify. Young man ! does not

a voice from Heaven arrest thy attention ?--" Go thou,

and do likewise !"

    His decision was also remarkable; not the decision
of obstinacy, which maintains the crotchets of a dis

ordered brain against the remonstrances of heaven
and earth, but a conviction of duty ascertained from
the only authorized standard, the Book of God. In

some cases where prompt action was required, and
the duty plain, (as in his interference on behalf of the
Lascars,) he would not hesitate a moment : but gen
erally, before he decided, he took time to consider, to

advise with others, and to pray over whatever was laid

before him. When, however, the path became plain,
no social sacrifice, no pecuniary loss, no breach of
political friendship, no amount of labor deterred him
from entering it. And his decision was as disinterested

as it was Jinn. Several very striking circumstances
520  HIS DECISION AND DISINTERESTEDNESS.

in his history might be given to illustrate this feature
of his character; but the following cannot be surpassed.
The Emperor of Russia offered him the lucrative ap
pointment of purveyor of drugs to the Russian armies.
In making his selection, there is no doubt the Emperor
saw such probity in Mr. Allen, and was so convinced
that through him his army would be supplied with the
best materials, that he felt he was benefitting himself

and them in the choice, as well as conferring a favor on
his friend. But though the Emperor urged him to

undertake the office, he gratefully but firmly refused.
The Royal Society were so struck with this honorable

decision and sacrifice to principle in their fellow mem
ber, that, in their obituary of Mr. Allen, after mention

ing the fact, they observe, -- " To his honor be it spoken,
he resisted a temptation the value of which it would be
difficult to estimate. At the end of a long life he could

say, that he had never compromised his public useful

ness for private interests."

   Such an offer, whereby a large fortune might have
been made in a short space of time, would have been

to many a strong temptation to overcome any previous

reluctance to war, or to satisfy conscience with the

plea that if war must come, and some one must supply

the medical stores, it might be done without relin
quishing abhorrence of the system. But with him
principle once formed from the divine oracle was law,
which enabled him to make such sacrifices, not only
without a sigh, but with joy. His house of business
acquired an European reputation for the excellent
quality of the articles sold. Integrity and upright
ness preserved him, and carried him through innumer-
HIS INDUSTRY AND PERSEVERANCE.  521

able perplexities which entangle the wavering. The
spirit which actuated him, when any debateable subject
was brought before him for judgment, seemed to be,

what would Jesus Christ have done had he been in my
circumstances? and when he ascertained that to his
own satisfaction -- whether it was to release a soldier

from prison, or to devote his time to deliver a prince
from pecuniary difficulties, or to travel thousands of
miles to promote the education of poor children, or to

plead with official persons to emancipate the slave --

each was undertaken with as great readiness as a

hungry man would sit down to a meal. " A double-

minded man is unstable in all his ways," and he who
is so, whatever may be his advantages or position,
may take it for granted that what was predicted of
Reuben will happen to him : " Unstable as water, thou

shalt not excel."

    Mr. Allen was eminent for industry and persmerance
in useful objects. It will not be disparaging to his
character to represent that his mind was not distin

guished by any showy attributes ; it was pre eminently
practical. Some of his contemporaries outshone him
in the lustre of their discoveries. By confining their

attention to one science they rose to an eminence

which his diversified labors forbade him to attain. It
was not, however, because he wanted genius, skill, or
perseverance -- other paths, being more useful to his
fellow-creatures, were deliberately chosen. How hon

orable to his heart and intellect is the following extract

from his diary :

   " I can humbly say, in the multitude of things

which harass my mind, the main object is the good
522          HIS EARLY RISING.

of others ; for this I have in great measure given up

my own gratification; for instead of these things,
             I

                      if,
                           it !

                                        !"
my time were devoted to philosophical pursuits and

experiments, to which am so naturally prone, the

path to honor and distinction stands fair before me.

May the sacrifice be accepted above

if       was accepted and rewarded
   It
     In reading his engagements, sometimes seems as

   several souls dwelt in one man, so readily does he  is

turn from one object to another--so ardently pursue
each --so perseveringly cling to till his desire
                                    it

realized. What distinction and what wealth might

such man have attained, had he selected only the
is
          aobjects on which the minds of the majority fix. Per

haps he might have accomplished more had he cir

cumscribed his limit even in lawful pursuits. There

     great danger of doing less than we might, by

attempting to do more than          possible. But every
                       It
man in his own order.
                            is
                                is
                            impossible to prescribe

for another. He that does not aim high will shoot

low. In some instances, influence       a is  dispersed to

greater advantage over many societies and objects than

when confined to one; -- thought -- single effort
                       aa
from one mind will do more towards advancing the

interest of an object than life of labor from others.

To carry out this spirit of industry he was an early

riser. Up to the last year of his life he begins his

daily memoranda with "Rose at five "or "half past

five," and seldom or ever we find the hour later than
six. Then, the division and employment of his time --

was a study. So that we see his elevation was not
obtained by " the smiles of fortune," but by hard,
HIS EXTENSIVE BENEVOLENCE.  «r)'23

p'odding, and continuous labor, which is the portion
and birthright of every child of Adam. He was not

what would be called a ready man. Speaking and
writing were not his forte, but acquired. His lectures
were delivered, not from brief notes, or extempora

neously, interspersed with a few laughable anecdotes,
as was the fashion of his time, but written throughout

and read. Every one of them exhibits the patient stu
dent laboring to make every sentence weighty with

meaning, and thrilling the audience with its goodness,
truth, and suitableness.

   His extensive benevolence was proverbial, and the

memorials of his life justify the encomium. A mere

list of the names of those Societies which he originated,

or for which he was the untiring and gratuitous helper,
would occupy a large space in type. Most of these

were unpopular, and had to encounter the prejudices
and opposition of the age. Principles which are now
considered truisms, and which every statesman, of

whatever shade in politics, counts it his honor to ad
vocate ; such as the right of the children of the poor
to education ; emancipation to the slave ; liberty of

conscience in religious opinions -- were sentiments
which then put a man on the opposition side in Eng
land -- among a small though rising minority. His

visits to the continent were mysterious to foreigners.

They were accustomed to see Englishmen spend their
money with prodigality, and visit their works of art
for information and pleasure; but few visitors left
traces of higher objects. Here, however, they beheld
a man of taste giving only a passing glance at the
beautiful in art ; a higher object possessed his soul : he
524             HIS POLITICAL CREED.

came to promote the reformation of prison discipline,
and cheer the dungeon with hope; to instil the prin
ciples of liberty into cabinets and princes, whose des
potism was their curse; to lift the population of every

land from degradation and vice, and make every home

radiant with intelligence and gladness. And they

honored and blessed him for a philanthropy so exten

sive and sincere. Though he never shrunk from
seeking the rights of the people on suitable occasions,

yet his political creed is steeped in benevolence. Hear

him :

   " My desire
'                                 to be preserved from taking any part

                             is,
in political matters, farther than as good subject of
                                   a

                                          I
                                             I

                                               I
the government by which, under Providence, am

protected; and that whatever happens,               may be

found in my lot,' doing all the good that can to

everybody, and being diligent in such good as my

Master may give me to do."
   O, that all politicians were cast in a similar mould

to William Allen
     ;
Partiality for our own sect, and carefully formed
                             is !
opinions, and a readiness to defend and circulate them

when required,                     commendable. Mr. Allen main

tained and acted upon this principle but he also
                                   is
affirmed that benevolence to be real must be exten;

sive stretching out its arms to all the brotherhood
of heaven, and saying, " Grace be with all them that
love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity;" looking with
compassion on the whole family of man, and carrying
out the golden rule, " As ye would men should do to
you, do ye also to them, for this the law and the

prophets."
       HIS SIMPLICITY AND TENDERNESS.                   525

The simplicity and tenderness of Mr. Allen's mind

were evinced on many occasions, especially in his

kindness to the brute creation. When little more than

eighteen years of age, we have the following record:

" A day of bitterness and sorrow, occasioned by the

death of my faithful, loving dog, who was killed by
accident in the street. I assuredly bestow too great a
share of affection on the animals I have the care of.
IResolved not to have any more than
                                                  have at

present."

   In one of his journeys with his niece he saw by the

road side an old and worn out horse, around which a

number of boys had gathered, who were teasing the
wretched animal. Mr. Allen stopped his carriage to

remonstrate with the boys, and finding the poor horse

a burden to itself, ascertained where the owner lived,

went to his house, bought the animal, had him shot,

and then pursued his journey.
   Towards the close of life he had a little Norwegian

pony which had been ill for some days. On going to
see he remarks --
it,
                     it :" Poor Pony came up to me to be caressed;Ihad

hopes of his recovery, but in the evening my dear

little grandson brought me word that he was dead.       I

felt low at the loss of this poor animal  ;     was beauti
                                                  a
                                            I it
ful, affectionate, and useful creature; never had

occasion to strike with the whip in my life. hope
                                                  I

                                                     I
not to repine, but really the things which set my

affections upon, are taken from me in a remarkable

way."

Such unaffected sentimentality may be left without
526    THE TENDERNESS OF HIS HEART.

remark to produce its own impression, and elicit its

legitimate commendation.

   But the tenderness of his heart to the oppressed and
enslaved of his fellow men were as remarkable as his

efforts for their rescue. On one occasion after the

passing of the act which declared that no one could

be a slave upon English soil, it came to Mr. Allen's

knowledge that a negro lad was in London, having

been brought by a captain from the West Indies, who

used him very harshly and cruelly. Mr. Allen con

trived to have the boy brought to his own house, made

up his clothes into a package, and returned them to

his master, sent  him           itnotoschhios ool,wanndseprvaiicde,foarnhdis "eBdulaccak
tion, then took   him
Tom " still lives at Lindfield, having faithfully served

his kind patron as long as he lived.

   His life shows that the preceding instance was one
only of many in which he felt deeply for the injuries
inflicted on the colored race of the human family, and
of his efforts to rescue them from degradation and

suffering. Although no man would have felt less dis

posed to apply the commendation of Job to himself,
IytheatnfeMwr.coAullledn.hav"e
                                more conscientiously adopted it
                                delivered the poor that cried, and

the fatherless, and him that had none to help him.
The blessing of him that was ready to perish came

upon ire. and I caused the widow's heart to sing for

joy."

But the crowning characteristic was his ardent piety.

Like Enoch, his privilege was to walk with God, and

his business to please God. How close and constant,
HIS ARDENT PIETY.  527

how spiritual and heavenly that walk was, the previ
ous pages show. His communion with his Heavenly
Father at early dawn -- his meditation on some portion
of his word during the day --his converse on celestial

subjects, all demonstrate where his heart lodged. The

earth seemed only a passage for his sanctified spirit to
a better country, and the things of it trifles compared
with the things which God had prepared for them that

love him. Unlike some whose piety is only discover
able when the rod of God is upon them, his shone

almost undeviatingly through a long course of singular
prosperity and worldly applause. The corruption of
man's nature, and the demerit of all his righteous
ness --the complete salvation which the Lord Jesus
Christ accomplished, and the absolute necessity of

divine influence to the implantation and sustentation
of the divine life, were doctrines by which his spirit

uality was sustained, and were made the chief topics
of his ministry.

   Many of his duties appear to have been undertaken

by what Friends would usually denominate a divine

call --an impression approaching to inspiration. But the
following explanation of his views on this subject will

show that, whatever importance he attached to these

mental impressions, he was no visionary: --
   " Those who are in the spirit of the world are so apt

to ask, How do you know whether what you take for
a divine impulse may not be the working of your own
imagination ? It sweetly occurred that it might be
known by the same test that our Lord gave, to dis
tinguish his followers from those of the world --by
528 A DIVINE IMPULSE EXPLAINED.

the fntits. I would say, I have a right to conclude that
I am under divine influence, when I feel my heart filled

with love to God, and love to all men, with a desire

that all, without exception, might be eternally happy;

when I feel an abhorrence of all vice and sin; when I

feel the peace of God which passes all understanding.
This, to me, is evidence as conclusive as any demon

stration in Euclid, and, under this influence, the Holy

Scriptures are felt to be precious. It is only under

this influence that we know that we have not followed

'cunningly devised fables,' and it is only under this

influence that we can bring forth the fruits of the

Spirit; but they who are busying themselves with

external and sensible objects, can have no idea of this

state, and even we ourselves, who in some favored

                      it                   are liable, by degrees,

                        if

                                      it,
moments have experienced

to lose our sense of     we suffer external and sensible

things to engross too much of our attention hence;
the necessity of frequent retirement and introversion

of mind."

   His popularity as minister was not equal to thata

of his friends Joseph John Gurney and Mrs. Fry; as

public speakers few ever excelled them, especially the

latter, the silver tones of whose voice, and the majestic

mien with which she delivered the message of God,

could never be forgotten. In the lecture room Mr.
Allen was deservedly popular: -- hear him deliver his

well digested lecture to the medical students or the

Royal Society, he is all life and energy, his voice well

toned and modulated, and his action natural and easy,

and he carries you along with him in enthusiastic ap-
HIS POPULARITY AS A MINISTER.  529

probation. Follow him, as the writer has done, to the
meeting house -- he is another man, his voice unnatural,
his tones assumed, and his manner anything but effect

ive. Truths plain and precious you would always
hear from his lips, which must work their gracious
effect ; but as the Spirit of God works by human in

strumentality, great as was his usefulness, had he been

in the meeting-house what he was in the lecture- room,
we must believe that it would have been much greater.
The acquisition of a natural manner and earnest de

livery cannot be too much pressed on all youthful

preachers if they wish to be effective ministers.
   Yet his singleness of purpose to win the hearts of

old and young, rich and poor, to love God and serve
him in his Son, the manner in which he seized oppor
tunities to lay before persons unaccustomed to hear

the Gospel, its enlightening and ennobling sentiments,
the sacrifices he made of time, property, and ease, to
serve his Divine Master wherever he called him, and
the fervor of his unaffected piety, gave him a secret
power with multitudes, which convinced, more than
the most eloquent appeals, that he was " a good min
ister of Jesus Christ." Mrs. Vernet was not alone
in her opinion of his ministerial influence when she

wrote :--

   " What a blessing it would be if God, by his Holy

Spirit, would lead you to come and pass some months
at Geneva ! You would have more influence upon us

all than any Christian whom I have ever known."

   Scarcely a person visited his house, or lived with
him, but went away sanctified by his presence, and it
530 UNIVERSAL TESTIMONY TO HIS WORTH.

is not too much to say, that were the opinions of all
who knew him best collected, the universal testimony
would be that he lived "accepted of the multitude of
his brethren, seeking the wealth of his people, and
speaking peace to all his seed."

